it's not easy. mr verhofstadt does not want an asexual president. my colleague liotard regrets that i am not a woman. so i try to meet all the requirements.
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to express my warmest congratulations to martin schulz on his successful election as president of the european parliament. he was first elected to the european parliament in 1994. since then, this house has benefited many times from his strong personality, his great political skills and his tireless commitment to europe. he has a right to an ambitious vision of the role of this house. and he rightly wants his voice - the voice of europe's citizens - to be heard even more than before. in this respect, mr schulz and with him the whole of the european parliament can continue to count on the support of the european commission. indeed, today it is more important than ever to reinforce european democracy. those who, at the national level, pretend that democracy can only be national have not yet understood that we are already in the age of globalisation, that we are living in the 21st century. those who resist the idea of european democracy and indeed the idea of european sovereignty on the basis of national sovereignty are handing over the real sovereignty to anonymous operators in the markets, who are subject to no democratic control. indeed, in this time of crisis, when the challenges before us are great, it is more important than ever for the different political forces to work together for a strong europe. in this spirit, i would also like to pay tribute to the other candidates who stood in this democratic election, diana wallis and nirj deva. a word of sincere thanks is therefore due to the outgoing president, jerzy buzek. president buzek has presided over this parliament in an impressive and principled manner in historic and testing times. during his term of office, we have seen the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, as well as the most challenging economic and political period of the european union's history. thanks to the very good and close cooperation between our two institutions over the past two and a half years, we have laid the foundations for a sound and trusting special partnership between parliament and the commission, which is now part of our common acquis. but there's more than this. president buzek was the first president of an eu institution to come from one of the central and eastern european member states the first since the fall of the iron curtain. his presidency symbolized that the dream of millions of people, the dream of freedom for millions of europeans, had come true. mr buzek, many, many thanks for this. ladies and gentlemen, our responsibility now is to implement fully the decisions taken to make europe stronger, more competitive and more united. the measures for financial stability and economic growth must be our main priorities for the months ahead. we cannot build europe on discipline and sanctions alone. europe must be built on convergence, solidarity and hope. it is precisely for this reason that growth is becoming more and more important. we must also hope that hope will prevail over cynicism and disillusionment and that we will clearly reaffirm our common will to live together. but we must also ensure that the sacrifices demanded by the crisis are distributed more equitably, that it is not always the poorest and the middle classes who pay the bulk of the bill for the crisis. social justice is also an essential element in the success of the response we are bringing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these difficult but also stimulating times, may i extend to you all my best wishes for success. you can count on the european commission's unwavering commitment and full and loyal cooperation to bring europe out of this crisis stronger and more united than ever.
dear colleagues, thank you for your kind words – and for the less kind words, thank you as well. this is an emotional moment for me and for a lot of my friends. if you will allow me, in addition to my thanks to all of you, i shall make a personal observation. as i mentioned, i shall try to be the president of all of you, irrespective of your political and group affiliations. this is a duty and it is a promise. i thank you, president barroso. i think the complementarity in the action of the community institutions is not only necessary, it is vital for the european union, and you can count on the european parliament – or at least on the overwhelming majority of the european parliament including, especially, on me – as your future ally in this fight to defend the community method. ladies and gentlemen, the words you have addressed to me are, for me, very emotional. it is a responsibility of the highest importance that the president of the european parliament should be a president of all the members. i think everybody who knows me knows that i remain a social democrat, but i am not the president of social democracy in europe: i am the president of the european parliament. i assure you once more that my duty is to defend the interests of this house. there is an additional point i would like to make and i would ask for your understanding here. this is an emotional moment for me, and not just for me. here in this chamber are a lot of my friends, not only on the floor of the house but also in the gallery. a former teacher from my school, when i was a seven-year-old-boy, is here. there are friends from my football team – which was not the most successful one, but was the best in my life. there are my friends from the city council, the former mayor of my city, the current mayor – my successor and my predecessor in the mayor’s office. the mayor of aachen, my home city, is here. my friends and my family are here. i hope that you will allow me to welcome all of them. they are a part of my life. (applause) merci beaucoup, chers collègues et chers anciens présidents du parlement, pour votre présence ici. c'est un honneur, pas seulement pour moi, mais pour le parlement européen. c'est un grand plaisir, et en vous voyant en face de moi, je constate depuis combien de temps déjà je suis député au parlement européen. j'ai eu le privilège d'être député sous la présidence de chacun d'entre vous, sauf celle d'enrique baron, qui était président avant que je ne devienne député au parlement européen, et qui a été mon prédécesseur en tant que président du groupe socialiste à l'époque. merci beaucoup d'être là et de nous faire l'honneur de votre présence, à moi personnellement et au parlement européen. merci beaucoup, chers collègues. il y a une nouvelle chose que je voudrais également vous montrer. je crois en effet que nous devons travailler ensemble à améliorer notre image et que celle-ci n'est guère flatteuse lorsque tout le monde rentre dans la salle en discutant avec ses collègues, pendant que la commission et le conseil parlent encore, ou que des collègues ont toujours la parole. le président échoue toujours à rappeler à l'ordre avec le marteau... je me suis donc décidé à utiliser une clochette pour le futur. je crois que c'est un premier pas pour être mieux entendu que ce n'était le cas auparavant. je vous prie de rester encore un moment parce que je dois annoncer quelques questions procédurales. merci beaucoup de toutes vos paroles et de votre soutien. (applaudissements) meine damen und herren, kolleginnen und kollegen! bevor wir heute nachmittag zusammenkommen, ist es für mich ein großes bedürfnis, als neu gewählter präsident des europäischen parlaments denjenigen, die gegen mich kandidiert haben, ein angebot zu unterbreiten. herr kollege deva und frau kollegin wallis, ich würde mir wünschen – auch weil der wahlkampf zwischen uns so fair und so korrekt abgelaufen ist –, dass wir in kontakt bleiben. ich habe heute morgen, als ich kam, zunächst gedacht, das sei eine demonstration zugunsten von julija tymoschenko, weil ich auf den fluren all die blauen und gelben luftballons gesehen habe, stellte dann aber fest: es war der wahlkampf von nirj deva. diana, ich würde mir wünschen, dass wir in kontakt bleiben, denn die beiträge, die sie während unseres wahlkampfes zur diskussion, zur debatte um die zukunft dieses parlaments geleistet haben, waren wichtige beiträge. ich würde mir wünschen, dass von ihren ideen – unabhängig vom ausgang der wahl – etwas auch in meine arbeit mit einfließen könnte. herzlichen dank für diese faire auseinandersetzung. ich würde mich freuen, wenn wir auch in der zukunft eng zusammenarbeiten. (beifall)
president
the next item is the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. i have received the following nominations: the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the proposal to include the candidate countries, the candidate countries and the candidate countries with which the commission has concluded a cooperation agreement. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the vote is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 8.05 p.m. for the counting of the votes and resumed at 9.15 p.m.)
president
i am here to announce the results of the elections for the office of vice-president of the european parliament. the vote was 703 with 14 abstentions. the absolute majority is therefore 345 votes. i announce the number of votes according to the alphabetical order of the candidates: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not in a position to do so. the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. the commission is also proposing to the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i find: no candidate obtained the required absolute majority of the votes cast in the first round. therefore, with all 14 seats to be filled, a second round of voting is required. i ask the candidates if all the candidates mentioned want to run for a second round of elections. is there anyone who would like to withdraw his or her candidacy? that's not the case. then we will present a list of candidates in the second round. all the candidates of the first round of elections will be retained. we are now entering the second round of voting. the results will be published tonight, but in case there is a third vote, it will take place tomorrow. the result will be announced today. the third ballot will take place tomorrow. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, not exactly a point of order, but i find it incredible that a vote in a parliamentary assembly should be held in a situation where the secrecy of the vote is not objectively guaranteed. it is unthinkable to vote in a chamber so full of colleagues who in front, behind, to the right and to the left have the opportunity to see what the colleague next to them is voting. in each parliamentary assembly, booths are provided at the time of voting to enable the vote to be taken in secret. i am not asking you to do this because of the possible vote tomorrow, but i would ask you to take this into account in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the protection of the rights of yulia tymoshenko will be a priority on your presidency's agenda. this brave woman was first locked up in a prison and now deported to a real gulag to serve a sentence on outrageous charges. this is a political lynching and a violation of human rights. so this parliament cannot remain indifferent to this situation and it must be brought to an end before there is a dramatic end. i therefore ask you, mr president, to make your first official visit as president of the european parliament to yulia tymoshenko.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is plummeting, the stock markets are collapsing, the centralistic europe of the financial lobbies is disintegrating, but the danish presidency opens its six-month term by pledging total fidelity to the commission's plans for the creation of an economic supergovernment for the continent. instead of concentrating on the measures to be taken to save the lives of 500 million citizens, the danish government promises to act as the loyal watchdog of the eurotechnocracy in the council. i do not agree with other passages. first of all, i do not see how anyone can propose today that the eu's enlargement process towards the balkan countries should be accelerated as a priority. there are other problems to be tackled immediately, before worrying about how to integrate countries in europe affected by corruption and crime. and then turkey: the danish government is pushing hard for turkey's accession. fortunately, turkey is far from meeting the eu's entry criteria. but the real paradox is that, at a time when the euro is in danger of collapsing, it should be the danish presidency that saves it, denmark, a country outside the euro zone, because it has never trusted the euro, and it is obviously right to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam prime minister, the programme's foreword shows that the main priority of the danish presidency of the council of the european union is to ensure a responsible european economy. what does that mean? in my view, a more responsible europe is first and foremost a europe which is aware of the danger it is in. and the biggest obstacle today is european leadership. it is not the euro that is in danger. in the euro area, there are countries that have shared, yes, the currency, but not the sense of political leadership. the worst situation is the immobility of our continental leadership. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope, therefore, that the good work of the polish presidency, which has never lost sight of the real priority we have at this moment, will be continued in this respect. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, but that it is able to take action to help those who are suffering from the consequences of the crisis. i take this opportunity, mr president, to wish you well and to say that we will stand by you in the battle you announced yesterday to reaffirm the rights of parliamentarism and the contribution of parliamentarism to the battle for the construction of europe, which this agreement on method is seriously damaging.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we have heard three speeches today which give hope for europe. it is three programmes and three strategies. i would like to say to the president-in-office that what she said is very important: denmark is following the fate of europe. it is not just a phrase, but a phrase which commits you to empowering europe and to giving your all; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are in a very difficult situation then - and i am not rhetorical - we have a breakdown in the process of community development. and it has prevailed over this, not by amending the treaty as some colleagues say, but by an agreement between the intergovernmental states. we have a moment of stagnation and great difficulty, which i do not think can even lead to a possible development hypothesis. with intergovernmental there is no growth and no development. the danish presidency is therefore committed to preventing this from happening.
the european parliament has adopted a critical attitude towards the new international agreement, as mr brok has pointed out, and this is reflected in the resolution we are about to adopt. the reasons for the criticism have been stated many times. on the institutional level, we believe that the instruments offered by the treaties would have avoided the risk of an intergovernmental agreement and would have strengthened the governance and budgetary discipline of the euro area while remaining within the union's legal framework. it is truly paradoxical that while the ink on which the six-pack is written has not yet dried, some states want to amend it by intergovernmental means, introducing elements which they had not previously requested or even opposed, thus taking a step backwards rather than forwards on the road to fiscal union. on the political level, we consider the economic approach to this agreement to be dangerously unilateral, because without concrete measures to strengthen growth and solidarity, the union will not emerge from the crisis and the objective of stability itself will not be achieved. we have nevertheless felt it necessary to make an active and constructive effort to limit the damage to the building of the union, defending the primacy of the community method and the prerogatives of parliament and reiterating the need and urgency of a common management of sovereign debts. it is of great political significance that the four pro-european groups have agreed on a common platform of amendments along these lines. we're now waiting for the fourth draft of the agreement. it is clear that if even the minimum points on which there has been a positive agreement are not faithfully reflected in the text, parliament will use all the instruments at its disposal to oppose the agreement. but it is also clear that only a profound institutional and economic reorientation can overcome the reasons for our criticism and the determination to build a genuine european economic government based on the community method and aimed at stability, growth and solidarity.
in writing. - i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the european council of early january because the underlying vision of the text reflects an enthusiastic europeanism of the community method, which is, however, largely responsible for the present crisis. the community method means the gradual and progressive concentration of power in brussels, it also means taking increasingly important and invasive decisions over the heads of the people, it also means less democracy, given the composition of the commission, an unelected body composed of high-ranking bureaucrats who decide on a daily basis how the lives of half a billion people in europe will be. what we need today is not more europe, but a europe that is more flexible, more democratic, closer to the people: the commission has already made a number of proposals.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the joint resolution. the criteria for the repayment of public debt must be explicitly reduced and eurobonds introduced. only then will we be able to give a fresh impetus to our contribution to a united and strong europe that is good for all.
in writing. the results of the last european summit in december were rather disappointing. beyond discussing whether the community method should be preferred to the intergovernmental method, as indicated in this resolution, it would be more important to emphasize how miserably the 'eu method' itself is failing. in its best form, the european union and the euro should have ensured greater prosperity and security for all, in a climate of mutual benefit: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. so i appreciated and shared the position taken by british prime minister cameron, who at least defended the interests of his people, not accepting to suffer again the decisions of others, which then always benefit and only the usual well-known. at such a delicate time it is the duty of the member states to defend their prerogatives and particularities, and therefore i do not think that the line taken by this resolution is sustainable, which seems to want to persevere on the road of community strengthening in the name of utopian ideals which in reality have proved to be totally unfulfilled.
in writing. − the joint motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the european council meeting (8-9 december 2011) on a draft international agreement on a fiscal stability union was voted on today in plenary. the resolution states that the new agreement will have to recognise the primacy of eu law over the provisions of the agreement itself and that all measures implementing the agreement will have to be adopted in accordance with the relevant procedures provided for in the eu treaties. the agreement must be in line with union law, in particular with regard to the parameters of the stability and growth pact, and if the contracting parties intend to give themselves objectives which depart from eu law, this will have to be done in accordance with the applicable eu legal procedures and will not lead to the adoption of double standards. democratic accountability must be respected by enhancing parliamentary participation in all aspects of european economic coordination and governance. cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament must be part of the eu treaties. the new agreement must contain a legally binding commitment by the contracting parties to take all necessary steps to ensure that, within five years, the content of the agreement is incorporated into the treaty.
ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to elect the quaestors. we have five seats and seven candidates, and we must therefore proceed to the vote. the electors are the same colleagues who effectively carried out this service during the election of the vice-presidents. i ask if mr and mrs borsellino are in the chamber. is mrs borsellino there? sógor, he is present. please, mr pack.
the problem is solved because mr panayotov is in the chamber and can therefore carry out his action. mr. poc, there is mr. bagó, he is present mr. kalinowski, very well, mr. kalfin and perello rodriguez, that's right. is mr. baggy there? well, that's a lot of us. great, you can go to the polls, the various seats, and you can distribute the ballots if they haven't already been distributed. please pass out the cards. we can vote now.
mr president, i think i missed the point or i was distracted: but is there a minimum and maximum number of preferences that can be expressed? i can't hear you, president.
five votes, you can give five votes. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
i'm asking for a blue card. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask mr cohn-bendit whether, having voted for hungary's accession to the european union, he, like myself, therefore believes that the right thing to do is to return to the previous constitution. and secondly, whether he considers the way in which the new constitution was voted in hungary illegitimate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, respect for the rules does not mean that we should abdicate our sovereignty. and these rules which have been mentioned and described do not seem to me to justify what is a kind of indictment, because this is what many groups have expressed as their pious wishes, and they were very silent when elsewhere, for example in belgium, democratic demonstrations were suppressed and three members of parliament were put in prison because they wanted to remember 9/11. president orbán, we patriots here today all feel hungarian, proudly hungarian and envy this people who live this season of freedom after having conquered it as if it had been conquered. perhaps he will come to visit us in padua, where he will be received like a hero, because we love those who defend their sovereignty. he will be welcomed as a president who, unlike others, for example our president-in-office, is not a waiter for the powerful and perhaps for this reason does not enjoy the sympathy of international finance, if it is true as it is true that there is or they want to put a kind of financial noose around the neck of free hungary, denying it those supports which are instead given without problems to all the other countries in difficulty. i think it is time to say that perhaps it is our peoples who should open infringement proceedings against those who, without a popular vote, have handed over their sovereignty to others, have abandoned their sovereignty, starting with monetary sovereignty, and i invite you to defend the monetary sovereignty of your country. we who left it undemocratically and without consulting, find ourselves in this good financial situation. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
i'm asking for a blue card. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask mr borghezio, since he supported the government of prime minister orbán, in denial of the evidence already presented by the presidents of the other groups, about the reform of the judiciary and not about judicial reform, i would like to ask, since i heard that mr borghezio said "come and visit us in padania": i understand that mr borghezio was elected in italy and that there is no such thing as padania among the 27 member states.
the answer is "blue card". there is no such thing as padania, there was no such thing as a free lithuania, there was no such thing as estonia, etc. and they are with us today. the stateless nations, from the basque country to others fighting for freedom, will one day be free and have a voice in the european parliament, i hope soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the debate we are witnessing is oscillating between a series of substantive remarks, which must be acknowledged for their clarity - for example, that of the commission - and at the same time the willingness of the hungarian government to go into the substance to specify not only its own positions but to seek solutions together, and, on the other hand, an ideological cut which, unfortunately, we are accustomed to finding in this house and which, in reality, risks producing the opposite of the effect it would like to achieve. we have seen in the past few days, precisely because of the ideological approach to the debate, the burning of the european flag in hungary. and this is the margin of what can happen when a criticism is not perceived as wanting to get into the merits, but triggers populist reactions because it tends to identify those who fought for good reasons, different perhaps from those of others, but still for freedom, justice and democracy, by those who, on the other hand, do not have a democratic attitude. i now want to propose a very simple solution, which i shall call the 'schulz solution', because i refer to the words you, mr president, used in your meeting with our group. you have said that attempting to use article 7 to criticise a government without going into the substance of the matter and accepting and listening to the answers of that government actually only strengthens it. and he did, as an example, what had already happened with the government that had formed the haider coalition, in the case of austria, a few years ago. i think you used common sense. i agree, but i don't want to exploit your words. i therefore affirm them in this house (...) and ask everyone to reflect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i feel i must express my feelings, which are confused and worried. i have been in this parliament for several years, and i challenge anyone to say whether there has been any precedent, in relation to a debate of this kind, of two opposing factions railing against one country. i think this could set a dangerous precedent. i say this to you, mr president, who said in a fine speech yesterday that you would guarantee the independence of parliament and its functioning. we are doing an outrage to the sovereignty of a country, because the process of european integration is a delicate, legal and institutional problem where sovereignty must be interwoven with a supranationality, and this sovereignty won for freedom - we all acknowledged that orbán and his country had won this deserved place in europe - has not allowed, as mr szájer rightly said, to listen to each other. there were invectives against a country about the generic things just mentioned, about news reports that, to be honest, also saw me as somewhat misinformed. president orbán said that there is a constitution, there are transitional and provisional laws that lead to a result, of course desirable and desirable, difficult, because what is behind, the struggles that have been, the lack of freedom that that country has had have put a hard test on the presence of a civil society, political forces, democracy, the government and the parliament. i think we must do justice to this and we must take into account the fact that, as has been said, the commission must guarantee the treaties. and the commission, therefore... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we are discussing the demolition of democracy going on in hungary. but a very similar path is being followed in romania, and both situations closely resemble the patterns of the berlusconi era in italy. in romania we are facing an authoritarian populism that is altering the rule of law, concentrating power in the hands of the president. the mantra of this right-wing populism is the same in all cases. its leaders believe that, since they won elections, they can do whatever they like with the constitutional structure of their country to tell the majority their mission is accomplished: ‘les jeux sont faits’. populist leaders everywhere have the same targets: the parliament, the constitutional court, the judiciary, the so-called leftist press. it is outrageous to see a government in romania using the police and the secret service to intimidate political opponents, restrict civil liberties and falsify elections. at the same time, public television has become an instrument of government propaganda and the romanian press is considered a threat to national security, like terrorism and organised crime. it is equally outrageous to see political elections in an eu country organised by a body with a military structure like the spatial telecommunications service under the orders of băsescu. thousands of people are demonstrating in the streets of every romanian city against their government and to defend their basic rights. we should stand united, using all the instruments we have to counter this threat to the very foundation of our union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, prime minister orbán, the criticisms of your government in recent months have been partly sincere, but largely instrumental and ideological. and the proof was given today, because you came to parliament, you gave the required explanations and thus gave ample proof of democratic reliability. yet some people continued to challenge it, showing that they were in bad faith, that they were not interested in listening to it and that they were motivated only by ideological reasons. it is a coincidence that the people who are now contesting it are the orphaned children or grandchildren of the regime that imposed the constitution in 1949, which you and your government have finally abolished. maybe someone in here misses it, too. and then i learned that one of the problems that is bothering some members is the age at which judges retire in hungary. shall we have a special session? we want to see in each member state how old the judges are when they retire. so where they go before 62, we impose article 7 sanctions, where they go after 62, they are democratic states. we are approaching the point of ridicule, mr president.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not in a position to go into the details of the three questions raised by the commission. i think that the seriousness of the matter demands that these matters be examined in detail. i am sure that this was discussed at length in my committee on constitutional affairs, that the constitution had not yet been adopted and that there was already bad talk about this constitution. for reasons you don't dare say. firstly, because there is the recall of the... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief and thank you. i simply wanted to ask why the blue card is used for political intervention instead of asking questions: that's the first question i'm gonna ask you, he just arrived, obviously it's not your responsibility. the second: i heard a colleague say that europe is not based on christian values, shame on you.
if you are referring to mr daul's speech, mr daul was scheduled to speak between the closing speeches, as the first scheduled to speak, and then he spoke last, but he was still entitled to speak. the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. in this long discussion, many of the speeches were rather general. it was not clear which provisions of the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights were violated by hungary and which specific provisions of the hungarian law were to be censured. only the commission has indicated three more precise lines of inquiry: i believe that we must have confidence in the commission itself and in the hungarian government and parliament on these matters. but there is a subtext that needs to be brought to light. the hungarian constitution is still being attacked, but there is no courage to say what the real reasons are for a certain radical left in europe to support a smear campaign against a country which has great merits in the struggle for democracy and freedom. what is disturbing is that in the hungarian constitution there is a reference to christian roots, the recognition of human dignity from conception, the assertion that the family is a natural society founded on the marriage of a man and a woman. i believe that these three aspects are not in contradiction with european values, but rather that they are the basis of them as an exemplary explicit statement which should be taken as a model in the whole of european law.
in writing. today i thought we changed the agenda and decided to talk about assad's syria and not about a member country of the european union. i have heard of citizens who are afraid to live in hungary, i have heard of the 'black plague' knocking on the union's doors, of the constitution as a knife to the throat of the minority and more. this is not chavez's country, colleagues! i saw orbán, a prime minister, come to explain his reasons, saying that he would agree to whatever the european union decided. and we have to believe him because he already did with the media law. then why all the cancan? perhaps not because they are really interested in the institutional and constitutional aspects of the matter, but because they do not share orbán's political choices on the family, the state and the opposition to the powerful and the influence of the banking powers on political decisions. let 's be careful . we have no right to interfere in the internal affairs of the hungarian people, we can only check the consistency with the treaties and it seems to me that orbán is here for this.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the follow-up to the durban climate change conference.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have time to go into detail, nor to discuss the major systems, but i think we must recognize that there are some points which remain very critical. i share the concern about this green fund; in these times, where we're going to find the resources remains a big question mark and a big concern. but i think that, to be realistic, we have to recognize that this time in durban things have changed. the old approach, which no longer reflected the real geopolitical situation in the world, has been superseded. we were still working on a photograph of the world from the 1990s, a photograph that's a long time old, if you look at it in the perspective of 2050, really unsustainable. we see that in 2050, the world's 30 largest economies are expected to have 19 countries that are currently still on the list of developing countries. i think that this change of pace is perhaps the most interesting fact from a political point of view and was in fact pointed out by mr florenz very well. i also think we should not proceed with watertight compartments any more. and so, remembering also what mario draghi, the governor of the european central bank, said the other day, right here in this institution, if we want to push in this sector too towards those which are the priorities, which are growth and employment, we must really be practical and focus above all on the technologies of the green economy to really achieve sustainable development and to meet the most important needs of our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i had the opportunity to attend the durban conference and i realized how useless it was. we spent something like 300 million euros on an event that produced nothing but smoke. the european union and the parliament had offices in the hilton hotel garages. when our delegation met with the chinese delegation, we were treated like fools: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we're careful to be first in class. we are in danger of putting too much pressure on the pockets of our companies in a time of very serious economic crisis. it is much better to have the courage to tax goods coming from the big polluting countries and use that revenue to fight climate change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive requires member states to separate the collection of electrical and electronic equipment and sets recovery and recycling targets. the agreement reached with the council focuses on reducing the administrative costs of registration and reporting procedures for producers. it has set a 5 percent higher reuse target and set a collection rate of 65 percent by 2016, with the collection of small appliances for retailers, fortunately, limited to outlets with an area of more than 400 square meters. i am in favour of the text, which is the result of a compromise which takes account of national needs and protects small producers, because, at the first stage of the debate, the system of compulsory collection also applied to small shops. it is essential for the new collection system to work that member states no longer allow unauthorised collectors to receive non-working household appliances that would otherwise fall out of the official recycling count.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly dealing with a very sensitive and important subject. as mr florenz has said, when we talk about weee we are talking about dangerous pollutants, dangerous for the environment and for human health, but we are also talking about an extraordinary possibility of recovering raw materials and we also know how much europe needs them: i am thinking of the indian, for example, whose kilogram is worth thousands of euros. but i would also like to reply to what mr florenz said, because he referred to my country, which is true that it does not have the levels of northern europe where the recycling of weee is already an important reality, but it is also true that it has made extraordinary progress in recent years and that there are strong disparities in the territory, because, if we look at the northern regions, we have very high collection rates. in my region, for example, veneto, which is in third place, we already have a very substantial harvest of over 5 to 5.41 kilograms, with peaks of excellence such as belluno, with 7.36 kilograms; emilia romagna, for example, serves 100% of its citizens with perfect coverage. this is a very positive trend. we've had a 27 percent increase in the last year. so i think we have to evaluate positively what has been done and understand that the path we have taken is the right one. we must have a major information campaign among the citizens; we must strengthen all the structures that are already in place and perhaps also update the data that are perhaps not behind such positive and rapid development.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am very pleased that this text has finally been adopted. i had the opportunity to follow it as an opinion in imco back in 2010 in cooperation with the envi committee. i am particularly pleased with the outcome of the extensive interinstitutional negotiations which have taken place in recent months, since many of the issues which were also adopted in previous opinions are here recognised. and for that i thank mr klass who has done a very good and i think very hard work. we can say with conviction that when this regulation comes into force it will ensure greater fluidity in the internal procedures of the european single market, thanks to simplified and strengthened authorization procedures at community level, but also, at the same time, greater protection, as many have acknowledged here, of human health and also the environment. we find that the criteria for the withdrawal from the market of products which may cause harm to living organisms have been strengthened, but at the same time we also see clear exclusion clauses for certain products whose use is necessary but permitted only under safe and controlled conditions. i am very pleased and grateful for that.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it has not been easy to find a balanced compromise to combine the objective of a high level of protection of human health and the environment with a faster and more efficient authorization system for the industrial sector. i would have preferred, however, that echa had granted european authorization for new biocidal products immediately and not gradually. however, the centralised authorisation system will undoubtedly have positive effects on the internal market, as it will allow uniform application of the requirements in all member states. in order to reduce red tape for small and medium-sized enterprises and to facilitate market entry for biocidal products, benchmarking had to be removed, but it is still required for those biocidal products for which a safe use has been demonstrated. this represents a heavy bureaucratic burden for companies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with the report by mr bové, whom i thank for his work, europe is firmly aiming at the establishment of a legislative framework to ensure fairness and greater transparency in relations within the agri-food chain. the suggestions and requests approved by the committee on agriculture and rural development are very welcome in this respect. increased levels of price transparency, reduced input costs, more efficient management of energy and natural resources within the supply chain, to name just a few of the most important. in view of these considerations, madam president, and taking advantage of the presence of vice-president tajani, i think it appropriate to recall the central point of the joint resolution on food chain imbalances, which was also referred to by my colleagues: a european system for harmonising payment deadlines in commercial transactions between food producers and the distribution system. we cannot afford any more, commissioner, distortions of competition between european producers, we cannot tolerate any more the existence of different national laws which regulate payment periods, contractual agreements and discounts in different ways. a territorial disparity which aggravates this phase of extreme market volatility where sudden price rises do not translate into higher margins for farmers who, on the contrary, see their incomes decrease more and more. we in parliament, vice-president tajani, are ready to support a legislative proposal to that effect and i know the work you are doing with the high-level group and so i hope very soon to see a legislative proposal for harmonisation on distribution systems in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis and the fall in consumption have dealt yet another blow to farms and producers. the problem of farmers' incomes is becoming more and more acute, affecting small and mediumsized farms, family farms, which do not have the strength to resist the arrogance of the large distributors. today, with this resolution, we are clearly saying that europe must act to correct these distortions. we must ensure that there are transparent contractual relations between producers and distributors, which guarantee a decent and adequate income to the workers in the field. and we must prevent price fluctuations from creating advantages for only a few, because today, when prices rise, they enrich the large retailers, when they fall, they impoverish the farmers, and to do this we must ensure that the supply chain is shortened and that there is fair competition. it is not possible, as happens to me every saturday when i go shopping, to find in the supermarket litre bottles of extra virgin oil sold for 2 euros when the price paid to the producers by wholesalers is 2.35 euros. and then, transparency to consumers, clear information to guarantee quality against counterfeiting. we have asked, with a question which was widely shared, to reduce the alkyl esters and methyl esters in order to prevent the oil sold as extra virgin from being mixed with other refined and deodorized oils, the placing on the market of which contributes to lowering the price of quality oil. i trust, commissioner, that in these indications and in this request for amendment of regulation no 61/2011 to reduce the quantities of alkyl esters and methyl esters, there is a clear and precise commitment on your part on behalf of the commission to reduce the presence of these counterfeit oils in the extra virgin olive oil on the market. and then we have to ensure that the production costs are brought down. i appreciate your openness, but i ask you to support the idea in the next cap of ensuring that renewable energy production facilities are set up on every farm, to meet the energy needs of the farm itself, to reduce costs and co2 emissions, and to support producers and small farms. what could be greener than this? we must act quickly and properly, commissioner, because land abandonment and desertification are no longer a risk to be avoided, but a reality to be counteracted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president tajani, this own-initiative report highlights the crucial importance of the supply of factors of production for the competitiveness of european agriculture. the european farmer has seen an unbearable rise in production costs over the last decade, which has not been adequately reflected in selling prices. european agricultural production is still largely dependent on oil. in the last decade we've seen a 60% increase in its price. to meet this challenge, the new cap must increase the use of renewable energy by starting a self-sufficient energy production cycle on farms using agricultural waste and also to power biomass and biogas plants. we will have sustainable agriculture and reduced costs.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, space has become a highly topical subject. this is demonstrated by the intense media interest in the launch of the first two galileo satellites, which took off from the european base at kourou on 21 october, representing the first step towards achieving european union independence in satellite navigation. achieving this ambitious goal is largely due to the impetus provided by article 189 of the treaty of lisbon, which clearly and unequivocally assigns the european union the responsibility to coordinate and consolidate national space policies and programmes through a common approach that can foster scientific and technical progress and industrial competitiveness. the aim of the treaty is to recognise the importance of space and the services it provides for the citizens of the community in the social, economic and strategic fields, and to consider it as a functional means for the european union to compete on the world stage with its competitors. the treaty thus provides an authoritative basis for the achievement of ambitious objectives for which the european institutions must provide adequate resources and appropriate legislative instruments. in this connection, i had the honour of working in the past few months within the itre committee on the draft report on the european union's space strategy for citizens. i hope that the final version of the text will reflect in a strong way the ambitious proposals we have intended to include in the report. i am referring in particular to the disparity in treatment which has emerged between the two strategic programmes of european space policy, galileo and gmes. while i strongly share the commission's view that galileo, one of the pillars of the european space policy, is of great importance, i believe that, in view of the €3.5 billion of investment that has been made so far and the strategic nature of the programme, gmes also deserves equal treatment, both economically and strategically. i am convinced that only by exploiting both programmes in a synergistic way can we guarantee technological and political independence for our continent and bring enormous economic and social benefits to the citizens of europe. it is for this reason that in the report authorised by the itre committee, which we will vote on shortly, i expressed my strong regret at the commission's decision not to include the financing of gmes in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, aware that the lack of a financial plan for economic support risks rendering useless the considerable investments made to date. another important aspect to be clarified is the strategy that the commission intends to pursue with regard to the management aspects of the galileo and gmes programmes in order to rationalise the organisational structure and have a precise picture of the maintenance costs. the report also stresses the need for europe to be independent in its access to space and for trade agreements with third countries to be based on a perfectly reciprocal relationship, avoiding dependence on suppliers from outside europe for certain key technologies such as launchers. these, together with the creation of a european space surveillance and environment system and the strengthening of research activities, are the key elements of an ambitious text which we hope will provide the answers that european citizens expect. the european space policy must support industry if it is to be forward-looking. at a time of deep economic crisis such as the present one, it is all the more necessary that the union should provide economic support for the space industry in order to maintain the competitiveness of our continent in an increasingly competitive global system. only if we provide european industry with real tangible prospects can we expect it to invest in human resources and in complex technologies in the long term. only if european industry maintains its leadership in space know-how can our continent remain a leader in this crucial sector. it is in this direction that i, as rapporteur for european space policy, have intended to proceed, in the hope that a convinced vote by parliament will give force to a text which, in line with article 189 of the new treaty, will guarantee scientific and technological development in a sector whose sustainable growth is an essential condition for the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner tajani, these are real european infrastructures which are indispensable for the implementation of european policies. gmes specifically for safety and environment and the management of mitigation, global warming and extreme weather event review policies. this must be included in the multiannual budget of the european union. if this is not possible, it may be an opportunity to introduce project bonds which also have an anticyclonic function. i have no doubt that this is an investment in our future and that it will pay off in a very few years. we're going to keep going down this road, commissioner.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the members of the committee on agriculture for their cooperation in the preparation of this report. it was a fruitful collaboration which led us to adopt, almost unanimously, a text on a subject which has been underestimated by the institutions and by the political world for too long, namely food waste. an underestimation we can no longer afford. if it is true, as all the most authoritative sources of information now say, that one of the main problems of the immediate future will be to meet a new and very strong demand for food, and that the issue of food security has therefore become one of the most difficult problems to tackle because in the future the demand for food will tend to exceed the supply, we can no longer afford to remain passive in the face of a phenomenon, that of food waste. when we talk about food, we are talking about food that is still perfectly edible, which has assumed an enormous and no longer sustainable dimension. in fact, we have reached a point - fao estimates that one third of the food produced each year in the world is wasted for human consumption, in europe we are already at 50%, and that each citizen on average wastes 105 kilograms of food per year - where we are told that we are not only facing an ethical problem, but a real economic, social issue with enormous implications for the environment. that is why we want to make the fight against food waste a priority on the political agenda of the european union. we therefore ask the commission to guide the 27 member states in adopting a common strategy to promote a real leap forward in reducing food waste significantly by 2025. we therefore ask that all those associations, voluntary groups and centres of initiative which have launched concrete projects in this field in various countries be given greater weight. these experiences have generated a virtuous system which has ensured a considerable recovery of products to be allocated to those segments of the population in economic difficulties. i would remind you that in europe, in rich europe, there are almost 70 million citizens who live below the poverty line and are malnourished. we therefore ask the commission to give us specific directives. in particular, it would be important to amend the rules on public procurement for catering services in canteens and hospitals so that, on equal terms, those undertakings which guarantee a management model aimed at combating food waste are given priority in the award of contracts. in this respect, i would like to stress that the important thing is that the european institutions must set an example, starting with this parliament. finally, we call for accountability for all actors in the food chain. a genuine awareness-raising campaign must be promoted, with the major farmers' organisations, industry, schools and universities at the forefront, in order to bring about a civilized and scientific culture geared to a more sober and environmentally sustainable consumption model. the european parliament has done its part with this report, and we hope that the commission will now take up this work and put in place an effective strategy. firstly, we hope that they will take action now to declare 2014 the european year against food waste; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. this would immediately send a signal to all citizens that the european union is capable of being at the forefront of defining a fairer and more balanced model of development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow food waste to increase any further and we must combat it by means of specific instruments, but also by means of a culture that shows its economic, environmental and social effects. food waste has increased by 50% in the last 30 years, with consequences not only ethical but also economic, environmental, social, nutritional and health. it does not seem ethically sustainable that, in the face of the approximately 70 million people in europe living below the poverty line, there are still tons of edible food thrown in the garbage and that the materials used to produce and pack these foods cannot be differentiated as much as possible. this elimination therefore comes at a high economic and social cost. the committee on agriculture's proposals cover areas ranging from packaging to more detailed information on expiry, and aim to help citizens avoid waste and reuse products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to thanking mr caronna for having been able to raise this issue not only because of the implications of the social scandal but also because of the potential opportunities linked to the fight against waste, i would like to turn to commissioner tajani in his capacity as vice-president of the commission to stress what is strategically crucial for us. how can the commission help to combat waste? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. because the question remains whether this should be centred on the organisation of social spending or whether it should return to the management and use of the chain of dg agriculture. this remains a key point because the dg which has the tradition and the expertise to enable the agri-food chain and citizens' associations and other stakeholders... (the president withdraws the speaker)
in writing. mr president, a study commissioned by the fao reveals that 1.3 billion tonnes of food for human consumption is wasted every year. the study also shows that industrialized and developing countries waste about the same amount of food - 670 and 630 million tons respectively. every year, consumers in the richest countries waste almost as much food (222 million tonnes) as the entire net food production of sub-saharan africa (230 million tonnes). fruits and vegetables are the most wasted foods. the amount of food lost or wasted each year is equivalent to more than half of the world's entire annual cereal production (2.3 billion tonnes in 2009/2010). information in schools and policy initiatives could be a starting point for changing this behaviour by even promoting, along with other policies, the fight against food-based metabolic diseases. we need a collective awareness that can weaken the commercial value of the appearance and quantity of food, adapting it more to the real needs of each consumer. it is a difficult challenge, but the european union can do it, as it has done in the past with policies with a very strong social impact, such as the ban on smoking in public places.
i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. please, mr rübig.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i now give the floor to mr morganti.
mr president, i would like you to observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims of the concordia cruise ship accident near giglio island in tuscany. the problem is that there are still 29 missing persons and the toll could be even more serious.
mr morganti, the presidency and all our colleagues share your feelings of deep sorrow and even dismay at what has happened and i propose that we observe a minute's silence. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
written declaration no 0041/2011 by mr alain cadec and others on the fight against algae blooms has been signed by more than a majority of the members of parliament and will therefore be forwarded to the addressees in accordance with rule 123 and published in the texts adopted by this sitting, with the names of the signatories.
written declaration no 0037/2011 by mr danellis and others on the establishment of the pact of the islands as an official european initiative has received the signatures of more than the majority of members of parliament and will therefore be forwarded to its addressees in accordance with rule 123 and published in the texts adopted by this sitting, with the names of the signatories.
i congratulate you too and we shall now proceed to the vote.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
the agenda shall include the explanations of vote on the conclusions of the european council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to amend the regulation on the community visa code, as it concerns some technical changes which will not change the practice of the member states. this amendment to the visa code will ensure greater legal certainty and harmonised application of the rules. in addition, they are provisions of practical importance for travellers and airlines, which will avoid the repetition of checks on persons who have already been checked and for whom it has been verified that there is no risk of illegal immigration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it is a correction which will not change the practice of the member states but which serves to exempt from the requirement to present an airport visa the citizens of eu member states which have not yet applied all the provisions of schengen (united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, romania, bulgaria). i think the amendment is logical because it would be pointless to check further a person who already has a visa or a residence permit and who has already been checked and found harmless with regard to the risk of illegal immigration. the proposal would also reduce the administrative burden on member countries.
in writing. − we believe that a community visa code should be established in order to clarify the rules on transit through the international airport zone and thus ensure legal certainty and transparency. some technical amendments are necessary to ensure legal certainty and harmonised application of the rules. this clarification is of practical importance for individual travellers and for the airlines themselves. this is a technical correction of the provisions on airport transit visas. this correction will not change the practice of the member states. the amendment to the regulation provides that third-country nationals holding a valid visa or residence permit issued by a member state which does not (yet) apply all the schengen provisions (united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria, romania) are exempted from the requirement to have an airport transit visa. we do not think it is necessary to check a person who already has a visa or a residence permit again if he has already been checked and it has been found that he does not pose a risk of illegal immigration. this should also reduce the administrative burden on the member states themselves.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of mr michel's report. i agree with the proposed amendments to the said regulation. it is necessary to eliminate any possible misunderstanding about the rules relating to transit through the international area of airports and in so doing to ensure legal certainty and transparency.
in writing. − the text adopted amending the regulation on the community code on airport transit visas consists solely of a corrective amendment to the code in force since april 2010. this amendment refers to third-country nationals who are subject to specific visa requirements. if they hold a valid visa or residence permit issued by a member state which does not yet apply all the schengen provisions (united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria, romania), they are exempt from the requirement to have an airport transit visa because they are already checked within the european bureaucratic apparatus. for the member states nothing changes and for the citizens concerned it is a simplification of practices and the possibility of traveling more easily.
in writing. the aim of the proposal is to clarify the rules on transit through the international airport zone and thereby ensure legal certainty and transparency. agreeing with the need to amend the visa code as regards the exemption from the airport transit visa (vta) requirement in order to ensure legal certainty and harmonised application of the rules, which also helps to reduce the administrative burden on member states, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the aim of today's vote is to clarify the rules on transit through the international airport zone and thereby ensure legal certainty and transparency. the current regulation is flawed. for example, the point concerning the exemption from the airport transit visa requirement is not very clear. since the handbook cannot create legally binding obligations for member states, it is necessary to amend the visa code in order to ensure legal certainty and harmonised application of the rules. this clarification is of practical importance for individual travellers and airlines. now, after this vote, third country nationals holding a visa issued by a member state which does not fully apply the common visa policy must be exempted from the airport transit visa requirement.
in writing. − the agreement negotiated by the commission with georgia on the protection of geographical indications for agri-food products is the first bilateral text protecting geographical indications concluded between the eu and a neighbourhood policy partner. the agreement will allow the protection of a very large number of european products in georgian territory, in exchange for the protection in the territory of the member states of a few products from the caucasian country. i can therefore only agree with the content of the negotiated text, even though georgia is not in fact a problematic reality as regards the recognition of geographical indications in the agri-food sector. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of geographical indications. this agreement should therefore be welcomed, but it is hoped that it will be the first of many similar agreements to be negotiated as soon as possible with operators who deal in european products which are subject to widespread unfair competition. my vote is in favour of the moreira report.
in writing. − the expansion of the number of countries with which the eu has concluded agreements for the protection of tics can only be welcomed. it has an impact which goes far beyond the economic data and is reflected in the prestige and good name of the excellence of european agri-food production. too often, situations of vacatio legis allow the international distribution of brands which fraudulently imitate the packaging of igt products, but do not possess the characteristics of igt products, misleading the consumer and causing economic damage, as well as damage to the image, of those companies which are daily committed to maintaining high quality standards of protected goods. recently, a striking case involved the export to the united states of fake "san marzano tomatoes". the commission admitted that it could not act, despite the evidence of abuse, because there was no bilateral agreement with the united states for the protection of registered trademarks and the united states rules on the protection of registered trademarks were to be invoked in order to obtain the right to protection. this is a paradoxical situation which must be remedied without delay. the committee on budgets has already taken a number of important decisions on the basis of the recommendations of the committee on budgets.
in writing. − we welcome the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and georgia aimed at the mutual protection of geographical indications covering a wide range of agricultural products, such as cheeses, oils and fats, bakery products, fruit and vegetables, cereals, fresh meat and meat products, fish and seafood, wines, liqueurs and beers. this is a bilateral agreement for the protection of geographical indications and is the first of its kind to be concluded with a partner of the european neighbourhood policy. the agreement has specific advantages for both parties: the eu should ensure the protection in georgia of some 820 geographical indications of food products (from 23 member states) registered by the european union, which is very reassuring for european agricultural production, as it will ensure that the characteristics and quality that distinguish it are respected. the agreement can also be seen as a positive step towards wider trade relations between the eu and georgia: in july 2010, the european union entered into negotiations with georgia to develop a bilateral association agreement which should include a trade component, namely a deeper and more comprehensive free trade agreement.
in writing. - there are countless benefits that an agreement on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural and food products between georgia and the european union would bring. the figures given by the rapporteur are supported by the following: the bilateral agreement should ensure the protection in georgia of some 820 geographical indications for foodstuffs, 1 930 wine indications and 320 liqueur indications registered by the european union, which is very reassuring for eu agricultural production, as it will ensure that the characteristics and quality that distinguish it are respected. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - the recognition of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs is certainly useful in order to identify quickly the origin, quality, reputation and characteristics of certain products. a satisfactory agreement was reached with georgia, allowing 820 foodstuffs, 1930 types of wine and 320 liqueurs, all of which are european excellence, to be recognised as quality products with certain guarantees, which are certainly useful for their marketing in the caucasian country; the european union is instead committing itself to mutual recognition of 18 types of quality georgian wine, which can certainly be a real help to a sector which is important for the economy of that area. the european union should be able to commit itself to concluding such agreements with other countries as well, since such agreements offer a number of benefits: we are also able to encourage the growth and development of neighbouring countries, so that they can enjoy better conditions and employment opportunities without having to emigrate elsewhere.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the european neighbourhood policy offers great business opportunities to european citizens and above all to citizens of neighbouring member states. the conclusion of partnership and cooperation agreements is important for future trade relations and the text in question, on the protection of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs, is aimed at regulating the internal market of both the eu and georgia in order to try to maintain a distinct quality, origin and name of the foodstuffs on the market with benefits for both parties. transparency towards consumers and competitiveness of products.
in writing. − the eu-georgia bilateral agreement on geographical indications is a joint understanding aimed at promoting trade in agricultural and food products from georgia and the european union, while respecting the quality and origin of products from both partners. agreeing that the recognition of georgian geographical indications can be considered a positive step towards wider trade relations between the eu and georgia, and in this regard seeing a significant increase in exports of georgian agricultural products to the eu from 10% in 1997 to 40% in 2007, i express my vote in favour of the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − the agreement with georgia is an important step towards the recognition of the quality of our products abroad. it is tangible proof that partnership agreements can be the driving force behind the protection of geographical indications. for these reasons, i join the unanimous appreciation expressed by the committee on international trade for mr moreira's report. if the european commission could reach more agreements like this, perhaps with those countries whose brand culture is not yet the same as ours, it would be a great success for foreign consumers and for european producers.
in writing. the measures contained in the draft regulation drawn up by the united nations economic commission for europe propose a series of purely technical measures aimed at producers operating on a worldwide scale. the aim of these agreements, as in the case of more than a hundred similar regulations, is to introduce rules for the approval of a given category of products on the global market, so as to reduce the bureaucratic burden on industry. i share the objective of the agreement reached by the geneva economic commission and therefore vote in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision.
in writing. − the recommendation on the accession of the union to regulation no 29 of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) by mr moreira is a text on the mandate of the european commission to negotiate and vote on behalf of the eu within unece, a global united nations forum for open discussions on motor vehicle regulations to which the eu has acceded by establishing the mandatory application of 62 out of 106 existing regulations. until now, the eu had not yet acceded to unece regulation no 29 on uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle. i voted in favour of the text because it will make it possible to apply the same rules in many countries, cutting red tape and giving european industry a new lease of life.
in writing. − the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations (wp.29) of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is a global forum on motor vehicle regulations, with the aim of promoting harmonised technical requirements that reduce development costs, prevent duplication of administrative procedures for industry and thus contribute to efficiency and reduced costs for consumers and society. agreeing that the said unece regulation will allow the application of the same standards in many countries and that the benefits of such harmonised regulations are reflected in road safety, environmental protection and trade, i am voting in favour of the draft council decision on the accession of the union to regulation no 29 of the economic commission for europe laying down uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle.
in writing. the recommendation we voted on in the house this morning provides a good example of the role of the european union, which is to harmonize the different systems at global level, in this case in road safety, environmental protection and trade, with a view to simplifying the regulatory framework. approvals granted under unece (united nations economic commission for europe) regulations will henceforth be considered eu approvals, thus avoiding duplication not only of technical requirements but also of certification and administrative procedures, to the benefit of industry and national authorities, given the benefits that our approval of the draft council decision on the accession of the union to the regulation of the economic commission for europe laying down uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle will bring to the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the council decision on the union's position in the unece negotiations on the two new draft regulations on pedestrian safety and led lights. i believe that the implementation of the provisions contained in the texts will bring about a further improvement in road safety standards, in which there is still much to be done to reduce the high number of road accident victims. unfortunately, despite the efforts of the member states, many people are still being killed in these very serious events. in fact, in 2009 alone, there were 35,000 deaths and 1.5 million injuries, and according to the latest estimates, 16,000 of them are children. for these reasons, it is necessary for the union, which currently subscribes to 126 unece regulations, to bring the provisions in force into line with the most recent provisions contained in the regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe.
in writing. the measures contained in the draft regulation drawn up by the united nations economic commission for europe propose a series of purely technical measures aimed at producers operating on a worldwide scale. the aim of these agreements, as in the case of more than a hundred similar regulations, is to introduce rules for the approval of a given category of products on the world market, thus reducing the bureaucratic burden on industry. in this case, the text drawn up by unece contains rules identifying common production standards for the type-approval of vehicles, also identified in consultation with manufacturers in the sector. i share the objective of the agreement reached by the geneva economic commission and therefore vote in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision.
in writing. - the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe on the safety of pedestrians and the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe on light emitting diode (led) light sources are also supported. the reasons are the same, so simplification and bureaucratization, increased competitiveness.
in writing. - the text by mr moreira on the position of the european union on the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is a text on the mandate given to the european commission to negotiate and vote on behalf of the eu within unece, a global un forum for open discussions on motor vehicle regulations to which the eu has acceded by establishing the compulsory application of 62 out of 106 existing regulations. the european commission therefore sends a document to the council and parliament each year on the activities of the world forum for vehicle regulations. in this case, we are talking about pedestrian safety and light sources with light emitting diodes (leds).
in writing. − the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations (wp.29) of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is a global forum on motor vehicle regulations, with the aim of promoting harmonised technical requirements that reduce development costs, prevent duplication of administrative procedures for industry and thus contribute to efficiency and reduced costs for consumers and society. agreeing that this unece regulation will allow the same standards to be applied in many countries and that the benefits of such harmonised regulations are reflected in road safety, environmental protection and trade, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the unece position on pedestrian safety and light emitting diode (led) light sources.
in writing. − in recent years, the european union has done much to improve road safety, and in particular pedestrian safety, by extending the scope of the issue to other areas of the world. the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations, which brought together the main motor vehicle manufacturing countries, not only in europe but also in asia and the americas, has contributed to this process. more than 120 representatives have regularly attended the world forum sessions. with today's vote in favour i hope that the two new draft regulations, the first on pedestrian safety and the second on led light sources, will lead to even better safety results than those already achieved.
in writing. − the commission signed an agreement with the indonesian government to replace provisions in previous eu-indonesia bilateral agreements. the eu's replacement provisions concern the air transport sector and would aim to put an end to discriminatory practices against european air carriers, which were previously made possible by the nature of previous bilateral agreements. in addition to being economically harmful to european airlines, such discrimination also constituted, under community law, a breach of the provisions of the european treaties on equal treatment for nationals established in a member state other than their own. the commission's action is therefore aimed at protecting european airlines and european commercial interests. my vote on the recommendation is therefore in favour.
in writing. - my vote on mr simpson's report is in favour. the conclusion of an eu-indonesia agreement is necessary, in particular, to allow all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu member states concerned and indonesia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr simpson's report on the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the eu and the republic of indonesia on air services because that agreement aims to achieve the objective of granting all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes to indonesia. generally all relations between eu states and third countries on air transport are governed by bilateral agreements and in this case the text is merely an addition to the 19 agreements already in existence. greater freedom of movement improves relations between states and makes life easier for citizens; i therefore believe that we shall see a steady increase and renewal of bilateral agreements in the future.
in writing. - bilateral agreements between member states and third countries in the field of international air transport may discriminate against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned or controlled by nationals of other member states. agreeing with the aim of guaranteeing to nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment as the host member state accords to its own nationals and with the aim of ensuring compliance with eu law by amending or supplementing the existing provisions contained in bilateral air service agreements between member states and third countries, i express my vote in favour of the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - with today's vote we are correcting the differences and anomalies in the 19 bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states of the european union and indonesia. in the field of international air transport, relations between member states and third countries have traditionally been governed by bilateral air services agreements. in 2002, the court of justice ruled that national designation clauses in bilateral agreements violate union law, as they allow a third country to refuse, revoke or suspend the permits or authorisations of an air carrier designated by a member state, but of which a significant proportion of the ownership or effective control is not held by that member state or its nationals. our vote will put an end to this discriminatory situation.
in writing. − the international civil aviation organisation, in accordance with its statute, only allows states to join it as members. however, a few years ago the commission tried to open negotiations for eu accession, hoping for a change in the icao statute. this change has not taken place, and the eu remains excluded from full participation. with the memorandum now proposed by the council, the eu is attempting to circumvent the obstacles posed by international law in order to informally join icao and exert its influence within it, even though it is not legally entitled to do so. in essence, the agreement in question appears to be a 'trojan horse' which will allow the commission to circumvent international law, and to the detriment of eu member states which, on the contrary, are legally and fully-fledged members of icao, but could nevertheless gradually lose their ability to exercise their rights within icao itself if this memorandum were to enter into force. there are certainly tangible benefits to be gained from increased eu involvement in icao, but these benefits would be achieved by circumventing the provisions of international law, and by overriding the rights legally granted to member states. i therefore vote against.
in writing. − the eu and icao will undoubtedly strengthen and consolidate their relations if they are formalised and improved. to this end, my colleagues and i unanimously approved the memorandum of cooperation between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation. icao was established as a specialised un agency and member states cooperate in aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection. the eu therefore has an interest in contributing to the formulation of icao policies. the memorandum of cooperation (moc) aims to achieve greater harmonization and closer coordination of their activities and, last but not least, to ensure a more efficient use of the limited resources available, for example by avoiding the repetition of the same activities. greater cooperation, such as mutual access to each other's databases, will certainly improve and simplify the whole system.
in writing. − the development of a framework for enhanced cooperation would allow the european union to increase its weight within icao. the memorandum would also be important in ensuring greater harmonisation of standards and closer coordination of their respective activities. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the memorandum of cooperation (moc) between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao) to formalise and improve relations and cooperation aims to strengthen cooperation in the areas of aviation safety, air navigation security, air traffic management and environmental protection. in the light of the strong interest of the eu in contributing to the strengthening of icao policies and the many icao rules and regulations that have already been incorporated into european union law, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the memorandum establishing a framework for enhanced cooperation and laying down the related procedural modalities for its operation.
in writing. - i congratulate mr simpson on his excellent work. the european parliament, in view of the proposal for a council decision, is committed to helping to strengthen the eu's position within icao by adopting this recommendation. it is necessary, as proposed by the council, to conclude the memorandum of cooperation between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation and, in the light of its functioning, the roles to be assigned within the joint committee should be actively fulfilled by the commission, the council and the member states. this committee will become crucial for the implementation of the memorandum of cooperation and for the adoption of the provisions concerning cooperation in specific areas. furthermore, further rules in the areas of air navigation protection, air traffic management and environmental protection will be necessary to achieve the highest level of aviation safety worldwide.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common defence policy and to the promotion of the rule of law. the general objective of the memorandum of cooperation is to ensure greater harmonisation of the rules and closer coordination of their activities. furthermore, while preserving the integrity of both parties, the memorandum aims to achieve a more efficient use of limited resources and to avoid the repetition of the same activities. the memorandum of cooperation will provide financial support of eur 500 000 per year for an initial period of three years on the basis of a specific contribution agreement under the financial and administrative framework agreement between the union and the un. this budget may be supplemented by financial support from the member states or the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. the exponential growth of weee waste makes it imperative to make major changes to the regulations governing its recycling and production. the growth of the segment is directly proportional to the impact on the europe 2020 objectives towards a resource efficient economy: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in line with these objectives, in addition to avoiding further damage to the environment and retaining valuable resources, high collection rates, adequate recycling standards, strong action against illegal exports and a fairer distribution of responsibilities and costs between producers, consumers and public authorities are needed. the text as amended by parliament seems to be in line with these requirements and also contains two particularly sensitive points which deserve attention and support. firstly, environmentally friendly design, not only in terms of energy consumption standards but also in terms of simplifying the procedures for disposal or recovery of raw materials. equally important is the need for the costs of recovery and treatment of raw materials to become an integral part of the product price, so as to provide a form of incentive to purchase products with a lower impact. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment was adopted by a large majority in the house today. this is a good result, considering the long road and difficult negotiations that have been behind the compromise reached. as you know, the directive requires member states to separate the collection of electrical and electronic equipment and sets recovery and recycling targets. the update voted today, which must be formally adopted by the council before being published in the official journal, sets ambitious targets, particularly as regards increasing the collection rate of waste electronic products. in this sense, i think it is appropriate to provide for an extension for those countries which, like italy, do not have adequate infrastructure at the moment, giving them more time to implement the new european legislation properly.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text, as amended, proposed by the european parliament. in many cases, this is a request to reinstate the european parliament's position at first reading. the clarifications to the directive requested by our institution are very significant. for example, it is essential that the definition of concepts be definitively clarified in the directive itself and not lead to a fragmentation of the internal market through different national applications and practices.
in writing. the revision of the weee directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment requires member states to develop new techniques for separate collection and recycling of such materials. i think the target that is being set is more than good, because with a common scope for the rohs directive on hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment and a mandatory separate collection rate of 65% for electrical products, we can achieve 5% recycling by 2016.
in writing. - the report by mr florenz on waste electrical and electronic equipment was voted on today in plenary. the new environmental objectives were approved today in agreement with the council. the updated 2003 waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive also gives consumers the possibility to return small e-waste to retailers, reducing the bureaucratic burden on businesses. member states will have to increase the collection of e-waste, with 45 tonnes of e-waste to be collected by 2016 for every 100 tonnes of goods placed on the market in the previous three years. by 2019, this figure should rise to 65% or alternatively, 85% of the waste electronic material produced can be collected. ten countries that need to improve their infrastructure, not including italy, will have an intermediate target of 40% and may request an extension until 2021 to reach the final target. once the council has formally approved the new rules, which will be published in the official journal, member states will have 18 months to transpose the provisions into national law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document in question because it will finally update the 2003 directive on the management of waste electrical and electronic equipment and will make it easier to collect and recycle refrigerators, telephones and computer gadgets. i think it is particularly useful that from today consumers will be able to return small e-waste directly to retailers, reducing the bureaucratic burden on businesses and optimising the specific collection procedures. better treatment of such waste will also make it possible to recover more valuable raw materials such as gold used for electronic circuits, and ultimately prevent harmful substances from ending up in landfills.
in writing. - i fully agree with the report by mr florenz on waste electrical and electronic equipment, a subject which is becoming increasingly worrying as this type of waste continues to increase. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must do everything possible to ensure that raw materials are recycled and recovered, and that health is not harmed in any way. awareness and information campaigns for european citizens are essential if a drive towards separate collection is to be achieved with a significant impact on prices. the next step will be to close the gaps between member states in the implementation of the directive, as different percentages are currently provided for in the recycling targets. i believe, however, that this report strikes the right balance between the tasks which fall to the european union and those which fall to the member states.
in writing. - the compromise agreement reached at the informal trilogue on 20 december is, in my view, a good result for the protection of the recycling of small household appliances and the consequent protection of the environment. the weee directive currently in force already requires member states to separate the collection of electrical and electronic equipment and sets recovery and recycling targets. the old text implements the principle of producer responsibility and requires member states to collect an average of at least 4 kg of electrical and electronic waste per inhabitant per year. the recast we voted this morning adds important details, such as setting a collection rate of 65% to be achieved by 2016; provide for reuse targets, increasing recycling targets by 5%, with a specific target for medical equipment, and reduce administrative costs for manufacturers in relation to registration and reporting procedures. one note which i find particularly encouraging is the requirement for retailers to collect small appliances even without buying new equivalent appliances, but limited to retail outlets with an area of more than 400 square metres with a collection point that can be set up in the immediate vicinity of the store.
in writing. - the weaknesses of directive 98/8 must be eliminated, as parliament has already called for. i agree with the rapporteur on this point, but also that the authorisation in question is the most effective system for promoting the availability of the products in question, stimulating innovation and improving the protection of human health and the environment. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs klaßper on the achievement of this compromise with the council on the use of biocides in products on the market. this regulation defines the most dangerous substances in disinfectants, detergents, paints, etc. and prohibits their use in products sold on the market. the european chemicals agency is responsible for marketing authorization and will be responsible for monitoring the application of this regulation in order to considerably increase the level of protection of health and the environment that it seeks to achieve. the products will thus be safer for consumers and the trade authorizations will bring costs into line.
in writing. the report on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products was voted on today in plenary. today, a major agreement was reached with the council which provides for stricter health and environmental controls on products to repel insects or kill bacteria and common rules for companies on the authorisation process for sale. this agreement has found ways to improve safety checks and the authorisation process, so that safer products are guaranteed. for the new rules to enter into force, formal approval by the council is still required, with which there is a prior agreement. the new legislation further harmonises the european market for pesticide products and introduces new deadlines for submitting applications for authorisation. the procedures for the recognition of authorisations between countries will also be simplified and from 2013 the possibility will be introduced to apply for authorisation directly at eu level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it will allow for stricter controls on pesticides, both from a health and environmental point of view, by introducing common rules for companies on the authorisation process for sale. i believe that the final text is balanced and will improve the situation for european producers and consumers alike. finally, i would like to point out the positive turn of events in the restrictions on dangerous substances, such as carcinogens, which will only be used when their use is absolutely unavoidable, for example when a product is necessary to protect public health.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment (2007-2013) and the european union's action plan for the environment (2008-2013). i voted in favour of mr klaß's report because it presents a balanced package which guarantees safer, better controlled and more widely distributed products, also makes the costs of marketing authorizations uniform and increases the level of protection of health and the environment. i think we are making positive progress in terms of facilitating and simplifying the rules in this area. we must maintain a high level of protection of human health, animal health and the environment and extend consumer protection through clear and specific product labelling. i also think it is good that producers outside the community will also have to comply with european standards if they want to market their products in europe.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation, adopted by the european commission on 12 june 2009, aims to revise directive 98/8/ec on biocidal products. the final compromise package, agreed as a result of the negotiations between the council and parliament, seems to me to succeed in combining the objective of a high level of protection of human health and the environment with that of a faster and more efficient authorization system for the industrial sector. among the main objectives of the proposal i would like to mention in particular that of increasing the level of protection of health and the environment, through a progressive elimination of the most dangerous substances and an extension of the scope to articles treated with biocidal products, together with procedures linked to the placing on the market of more precise and better active substances and biocidal products, updating the authorization system and introducing elements of simplification and harmonization. that is why i voted in favour of the measure.
in writing. the report contains interesting insights and shareable reflections on real problems in european agriculture. indeed, the vulnerability of the agri-food chain and the volatility of prices, especially of the factors of production, make the sector highly unequal today and do not help the efficiency and sustainability of the agricultural chain. however, i must say that the reference to the issue of climate change, which has nothing to do with the question of agricultural production factors, is too strong and too insistent. the report also calls for the establishment of a new european price monitoring agency to prevent and correct distortions in the prices of production factors. another agency involves an increase in community expenditure without any benefit being reasonably foreseeable, in this case as in many others unfortunately. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − the report is part of the debate on cap 2020 reform, seeking to inform its content, to better adapt it to the important challenges facing farmers, and to transform those challenges from potential risk factors into opportunities to advance the process of transforming agriculture towards an environmentally sustainable and energy-efficient way of life. to achieve these results, without jeopardizing the survival of a large number of small operators, especially those located in the most remote areas of the continent, it is necessary to act on those levers that make the management of agricultural activities economically sustainable. the report provides for measures to eliminate the distortions which, 'upstream', limit the profitability of agricultural activity. all eurostat surveys agree that the increase in factor costs is out of proportion to the increase in producer prices. the report for which a favourable opinion is expressed has the merit of indicating precisely the areas of intervention, both by calling for a better and more constant commitment to combating cartel formation at the level of suppliers of the main production factors (seeds and fertilisers) and by indicating a transformation of the supply systems of resources, which is environmentally sustainable and economically advantageous.
in writing. − the increasing volatility in the prices of agricultural raw materials and agricultural production factors increases the uncertainty of farmers' incomes and long-term investments. this is particularly dangerous in isolated, mountainous and island regions where the factors of remoteness and extreme peripheral location impose high additional costs, with serious repercussions on the income of farmers working there. i therefore expressed my full support for this report, as it is now necessary to improve the transparency of agricultural inputs prices and to ensure that competition rules are applied and enforced throughout the food chain. we therefore urge the ec and the member states to ensure greater monitoring and analysis at eu and world level of the economic mechanisms underlying the continuing rise in food prices, together with the interactions between fluctuations in supply and demand, and the increasing interactions between energy, factor and food price developments.
in writing. - we support this report because it has the merit of identifying the problems that are at the root of agricultural production, paying particular attention to the increase in the last decade in production factors such as energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water. this has obvious and significant repercussions on the various sectors of production. we therefore consider it essential to support the policy options suggested here by the rapporteur, with the aim of enabling farmers to contain the costs of the factors of production, in order to increase their autonomy and income and to ensure a more efficient and sustainable use of production resources.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of mr bovè's report. it is right to ask the commission to promote more efficient agronomic practices and improved sustainable management of agricultural resources, with the aim of creating stable and productive agriculture, reducing the cost of inputs and nutrient wastage, and promoting innovation, resource efficiency and effectiveness and sustainability in agricultural systems.
in writing. - community legislation often reduces the overall competitiveness of european enterprises. i voted in favour of the report on the supply chain for agricultural products, because i believe that it is absolutely necessary to intervene at several levels in the supply chain to better understand the mechanisms of what is produced and how. the price mechanism must ensure a good and fair distribution of the proceeds. it is also essential to ensure transparency for consumers so that they can make fully informed choices. i also support the measures proposed in mr bové's report to promote farmers and ensure equal treatment for them.
in writing. the report we have just voted on is of fundamental importance, as it seeks to identify the best way to ensure that large retail companies do not abuse their dominant position and that farmers' incomes accurately reflect the prices paid for food by final consumers. currently, eu agriculture is heavily dependent on imports of production factors (mainly fossil fuels, animal feed and scarce mineral feedstocks such as phosphates) and is vulnerable to price increases. this has therefore raised serious concerns about the competitiveness of eu farmers. we want to emphasise here that the high volatility of agricultural raw material prices and production factors has increased farmers' insecurity about their income and long-term investments. the member states and the commission must therefore improve the transparency of agricultural production factor prices and ensure that competition rules are respected. greater availability of data on factor costs would help farmers.
in writing. - data and research have long shown that large imbalances in the food supply chain persist. parliament therefore called on the commission and the council to take action in this specific area to ensure fair and transparent relations between producers, suppliers and distributors and the effective application, in many cases clearly disregarded or distorted, of the regulatory measures already in force. the commission must also do everything possible to find a solution as soon as possible to the unequal distribution of profits throughout the agri-food chain, with particular attention to the incomes of agricultural producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission and the council are also called upon to take action to combat unfair and abusive practices in the food sector, which are largely responsible for the imbalances in the supply chain itself. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of the joint resolution.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on imbalances in the agri-food chain because i believe that it is now necessary to start the process of creating european legislation capable of regulating relations within the distribution chain, avoiding conditions of contractual inferiority for the agricultural world. today, many farmers and farms are facing unsustainable increases in production costs. however, these additional costs are not offset by the prices paid to farmers by the purchasers of agricultural products, in particular by the goc companies. our commitment here in the european parliament is to make our european agriculture competitive and at the same time to protect farmers who risk not only losing bargaining power in the distribution chain but also seeing their margins of profitability eroded. we must counter these risks and demand a clear definition of the abusive and unfair practices often perpetrated against farmers and conduct an information campaign towards farmers on the most common illegal contractual and commercial practices together with the tools at their disposal to denounce abuses.
in writing. − the problem of imbalances in the food supply chain is clearly of european scope and therefore requires a specific solution at european level in the light of the strategic importance of the agri-food chain for the european union. i am therefore in favour of the joint resolution being adopted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it is clear that there are huge imbalances in the food supply chain which need to be corrected. profits are left in the hands of a few, especially the large retailers, while farmers are often not paid fairly for their work and their products. the consumers themselves are the ultimate victims, as they are forced to pay a higher price because of the inefficiency of the mechanism. i therefore appreciate the efforts made to develop the short chain, which can bring immediate benefits to farmers and consumers alike. those who abuse their dominant position by applying prices which destroy competition in the market must be punished. the agricultural holdings, especially the smaller ones, are our heritage which must be defended and protected, especially in the face of the power now in the hands of the large organized distribution. i would also like to add my satisfaction at the fact that the house has rejected by an overwhelming majority an amendment aimed at reintroducing quotas for milk and sugar: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on imbalances in the food chain because i believe that parliament, as the direct representative of the people, must make its voice heard by the european commission, so that it can propose appropriate measures to manage the food market and the whole machinery that revolves around it more efficiently. i believe that the problem is strictly european. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food chain is not affected by external factors. member states should be given the role of promoting the development of best practices for collaboration between all stakeholders, from farmers to retailers, industry, suppliers and consumer representatives.
in writing. - my colleagues and i on the committee on agriculture have repeatedly expressed the need to diversify production, reduce costs by increasing the size of small farms and invest in the food supply chain through marketing strategies. the food supply chain, agriculture, agri-food industry and the distribution sector account for over 5% of european value added and 7% of jobs. in addition, the agri-food industry generates €1.4 trillion a year, more than any other sector. in the context of the discussions on the competitiveness of the sector, any disruption in the food supply chain can have serious economic and social consequences for farmers, agricultural cooperatives and rural areas, and this is precisely what is happening. the evolution of prices in recent years, both at the level of production and consumption, has clearly demonstrated the imbalance of power within the food chain. this seriously threatens the sustainability of the sector, especially for agriculture. european consumers now spend 13% of their household budget on food, compared with 30% in the early 1980s. i hope, then, that the resolution we have adopted today will reopen the problem, but this time with a view to finding an effective solution.
in writing. the report reaffirms the importance of the space policy sector in the european strategy, both in terms of innovation and the production of highly skilled jobs. an ambitious space policy is therefore needed, one that will bring innovation, research and well-being for citizens in their daily lives. the rapporteur therefore appropriately calls on the commission to complete the legislative and financial framework with a view to defining the financial programming for the period 2014-2020. the commission should also, as the rapporteur argues, try to develop, on behalf of the european union, the broadest possible international cooperation strategy, in order to increase and deepen the dialogue and exchange of knowledge and expertise not only with traditional partners such as the united states and russia, which have their own satellite measurement and navigation systems, but also with emerging countries. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr patriciello's report because i believe that the work done in the itre committee has enabled the adoption in plenary of a document which has achieved important objectives for the continuation of the ambitious european space project. at the same time, however, i regret the exclusion of gmes from the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, a failure that risks undermining the efforts made so far, leaving it solely in the hands of the states to take an initiative which, in this period of economic crisis, may not be given the importance it deserves. i believe that the union's role is crucial in consolidating a space programme that will enable europe to remain a world leader in the field and will enable industry, employment and scientific research in space technology and its direct applications to be revived. in this respect, i share and promote the idea of project bonds as a co-participatory financial instrument in which public and private investments in the future are made through articulated and agreed planning.
in writing. - new technologies and development in space are the future and a bet to be made, if we are not to be excluded from a lucrative sector with a strong international political value. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of the european space strategy, including the galileo and gmes projects. the galileo programme provides for a satellite navigation system designed for civil purposes, logistics and road safety in transport: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the gmes programme plays a key role in earth observation, supporting the green economy and long-term investment in technology and infrastructure. it is also a cornerstone for environmental safety, climate monitoring, emergency management, disaster prevention and many other aspects. it is important to ensure continuous and long-term funding for these projects. investment and projects in the space sector have a strong impact on many aspects: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including: the european space industry generates a consolidated turnover of eur 5,4 billion: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. − with the adoption of this report, we have taken an important step towards defining a future european space strategy. a common space policy can make a significant contribution to boosting the competitiveness of the european economy by promoting scientific and technological progress and stimulating innovation, as called for in the europe 2020 strategy. the economic importance of the european space industry is shown by a few facts: 31 000 highly qualified employees, €5.4 billion in annual turnover, €800 billion of european gdp coming from satellite radio navigation. in addition to being a driver of industrial development, space policy has a crucial role to play in protecting the environment, combating climate change and ensuring the safety of european citizens. this is why the main programmes it uses, gmes and galileo, should receive adequate financial support from the eu. it has been repeatedly stressed that gmes is also a key programme for crisis management operations, civil protection and humanitarian assistance. i hope therefore that a new strategy will be drawn up as soon as possible to unlock the potential for economic development and research in the space sector and its earth observation programmes.
in writing. − space policy is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy and an integral part of the industrial policy initiative. it supports the objectives of a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy capable of creating highly skilled jobs, providing business opportunities, stimulating innovation and improving the well-being and security of citizens. the proposals presented by the commission are a first step towards a comprehensive space strategy for the european union. however, in collaboration with industry, a coherent european approach must be established and financial and legislative mechanisms must be put in place in the medium and long term to stimulate european industry and to allow the continuity needed to support ambitious and competitive projects in an international context. we believe that the priority actions are still too vague. they should be specified and include an assessment of all technical options and their related costs and benefits. it is also necessary to provide for clear governance of space policy, accompanied by effective oversight and coordination mechanisms for the harmonisation of priorities and resources from national and european union funds, the european space agency (esa) and the european defence agency (eda).
in writing. − i voted in favour because strengthening europe's space policy, a key element of the europe 2020 strategy, means promoting technical and scientific progress on the one hand and stimulating innovation by improving the well-being and safety of citizens on the other. i therefore support the inclusion of the galileo and gmes projects as priorities in a european space strategy. the eu is currently dependent on the us global positioning system (gps). in order to reduce this dependence, it is clear that galileo will offer clear advantages over the american gps not only in terms of greater accuracy but also in terms of guaranteeing the service and the strategic autonomy of the european union. the importance of galileo in improving the competitiveness and quality of many services in europe is also of great importance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr patriciello's report on the european union's space strategy because it sets out noble objectives which will really serve the interests of the citizens. in addition to providing more appropriate responses to security and defence, the european space policy will promote scientific and technological progress, foster innovation and make the industrial system more competitive; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. in the future, it is hoped that europe will play a major role on the international space scene by ensuring that citizens derive maximum benefit from space research projects and investments.
in writing. - i share and strongly support the conclusions of mr aldo patriciello on the european space strategy, both for reasons of appreciation and for reasons of perplexity. there is no doubt that space policy is a great opportunity for europe. it is because it stimulates technological innovation; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. it is therefore right that the project should play a key role in the europe 2020 strategy. in this context, it is clear that the commission could and should have drawn up a more ambitious governance plan. the commission notes that the financial corrections for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015 were made in accordance with the provisions of the stability and growth pact. the references to cooperation with the united states, russia and other emerging powers are too weak to fit space policy into the international context.
in writing. - i believe that the concerns of many of my colleagues about the future of the gmes earth observation programme and the galileo satellite navigation system are well founded, as they risk not being able to obtain the funding necessary for their operation. in particular, galileo, the world's first navigation satellite designed for civilian use, is the only system that could allow the eu to remain independent of the american gps, and for this reason it is necessary to ensure sufficient funds to cover its long-term development.
in writing. − through the lisbon treaty, the european union has acquired a substantial role in the formulation of a policy for the exploration and use of space, with a view to promoting scientific and technical progress. i voted in favour of mr patriciello's report because it provides for the further development and optimisation of the galileo and gmes programmes and i agree with the role envisaged for the latter to assist civil protection and maritime surveillance, thus increasing services for european security. i am convinced that the union's space policy should make it possible to provide more adequate responses to the defence and security of europe's space infrastructures. i believe that the measures in this report bring together physical resources and know-how for the benefit of the whole of the eu and that it is also necessary to coordinate adequately the capabilities of the different member states in the use of space technologies for security.
in writing. the union's space policy, which we are adopting this morning with our positive vote, will make it possible to provide more appropriate responses to the security and defence of europe's space infrastructure. the priority actions for an eu space policy are primarily the galileo and gmes lighthouse projects. as regards the use of space technologies for security (border surveillance, maritime surveillance, emergency management, humanitarian aid, support for eu external action), the union will have to coordinate member states' capabilities appropriately, under conditions to be agreed with infrastructure-owning states, in order to best meet operational needs, including, where appropriate, the development of new infrastructure. space technologies will also need to be protected as infrastructures against the risks of damage and destruction, through the progressive sharing of existing capabilities among member states, the acquisition of missing capabilities and their proper maintenance and management. the union will then be able to play an important role in the field of space exploration, overcoming the current dispersion of interventions, identifying and supporting the development of technologies for exploration in the fields of energy, health and support for isolated environments.
in writing. − i fully support this document because we cannot ignore the fact that every year in europe a growing amount of food, up to 50 %, becomes waste. a study published by the commission estimates annual food-waste generation in the 27 member states at approximately 89 million tonnes. this evidence is unacceptable if we think that in europe 79 million people are still living below the poverty line. food security is a basic human right and for this reason the european institutions and the member states must address, as a matter of urgency, the problem of food waste along the entire supply and consumption chain. reducing food waste is a vital preliminary step in combating hunger in the world, responding to the increased demand predicted by the fao and improving people’s nutritional levels. i believe that a good way to start to reduce this enormous problem is to inform people not only about the causes and effects of waste but also about ways of reducing it. a civic culture guided by the principles of sustainability and solidarity could be the first step in the right direction.
in writing. - mr caronna's report deals with an important issue such as the efficiency of the food chain in the eu member states. food waste statistics tell us that in some cases, almost 50 percent of healthy, edible food is wasted in the food chain. this has implications not only for the sustainability of the food chain and food production itself, but also for product prices and the eco-sustainability of food waste. the report therefore calls on the commission, the council and the governments of the member states to promote measures and policies which will first of all promote greater awareness of the problem among the public. the commission and the council are also invited to declare 2012 the 'european year against food waste' in order to raise awareness among institutions and consumers of the many harms caused by the dispersion of huge quantities of food throughout the food chain and of the need for a change of course in this area. it is also desirable, as the report says, that the commission should encourage the exchange of good practice between the member states in this respect. my vote is in favour of the report.
in writing. − it is no longer surprising that the level of food waste data has ethical as well as social, economic and environmental significance. yet, despite the ever-increasing amount - estimated by the fao to be as much as 50% of total output - of lost goods along all links in the agri-food chain, there is still no clear, univocal and uniform definition of the concept of 'food waste' in europe. as if that were not enough, just a few months ago, we had to fight a bitter battle to allow the refinancing of the fund for the distribution of food to the indigent. in contrast, the deplorable statistic that europeans and north americans waste up to 115 kg of food per capita. this is a situation which is no longer tolerable but at the same time difficult to resolve. one of the main merits of the report is that it does not limit the problem to its most obvious aspect - waste generated by the final consumer - which, however deplorable, is only one part of a wider and more complex problem. on the other hand, intervention strategies must be identified to address the specific causes of waste in each of the five sectors (production, storage, processing, distribution, consumption) that make up the agri-food chain.
in writing. - each year, some 1.3 billion tonnes of food is wasted worldwide, about a third of the food produced for human consumption. it is estimated that each european citizen throws away an average of 179 kg of food per year, much of which is still edible. we must use this data as a starting point for a coordinated european strategy and effective measures that can drastically reduce food waste. until now, the european union has underestimated this problem, which has not only social, but also economic and environmental consequences. recent studies show that as much as 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions in developed countries come from the production of the same food that is thrown away every day. the resolution adopted today calls for an integrated and shared approach - from producer to consumer - to reduce food waste substantially. consumer awareness and education will play a key role in promoting the idea that what is wasted can instead become a resource. this is what the last minute market, a reality created by the university of bologna, has successfully demonstrated, promoting the 'reuse' of food within solidarity networks.
in writing. - i strongly supported this report because the level of food waste must not increase any further and we must combat it with tools but also a culture aimed at explaining its causes and economic, environmental and social effects. in the face of a phenomenon which has increased by 50% in the last thirty years, with repercussions not only ethical but also economic, environmental, social, nutritional and health-related, it does not seem ethically sustainable that some 80 million people in europe live below the poverty line. the tons of food that can still be eaten and thrown away are often eliminated through high economic and environmental costs that society itself pays for when it could do much, often unconsciously, to limit the amount. i therefore believe that today's vote represents the beginning of a regulatory process which will in future enable us to reconcile consumer needs in terms of hygiene and information, through differentiated and simplified packaging methods at lower cost to businesses and, therefore, at lower final prices.
in writing. - food waste has become a global problem. this question is then contrasted with the fundamental problem of food supply, which is seriously compromised by the limited natural resources in relation to the growing number of the world's population and by the poor access to food by the poorest sections of the population. the amount of food produced today can actually still be reused for food purposes instead of being disposed of like any other waste, with significant environmental and economic impacts and ethical implications. the fight against food waste must therefore become a priority on the european political agenda; the commission, the council and the member states are called upon to adopt concrete strategies and measures to halve the use of lead in the supply chain by 2025, to improve the efficiency of the supply chain and to raise public awareness of a subject that is still largely ignored. citizens need to be informed not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about how to reduce it; promote a scientific and civic culture oriented towards the principles of sustainability and solidarity in order to encourage the most virtuous behaviour.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr caronna's report because i think it is entirely acceptable that the european union should send a strong signal against food waste. food waste is not only a huge problem with the hunger suffered by many of the world's people, but also with the limited natural resources. i think that the european institutions have taken a commendable initiative in declaring 2013 the european year against food waste. given that most waste occurs in the distribution and consumption phases, such a declaration would play a fundamental role in raising the interest of the european peoples in this problem.
in writing. - i wanted to express my positive opinion of this report, as i believe it is essential that there should be an effective fight against food waste. recent surveys have shown that in europe, around 50% of healthy and edible food is lost along the entire agri-food chain. this is a figure that is frankly unacceptable. the world population is constantly increasing, and the challenge of world food supply will have to be faced and overcome in the coming years, and it is therefore imperative that we begin not to waste what is already at our disposal. in addition to causing economic damage to producers and consumers, food waste also has a strong social impact, which is why measures to support the collection and recovery at local level of unsold or discarded products that are perfectly usable should be encouraged, so that they can be redistributed to disadvantaged groups, for example. the european union must take the lead in developing best practice in this field and ensure that it is then developed throughout europe; the community institutions themselves should then be the first to set an example by committing themselves to limiting waste in the canteens for their staff.
in writing. the text just voted is certainly very interesting in view of the tonnes of food still usable that are thrown away every day. the implementation of strategies to improve the efficiency of the food chain is of considerable importance, since the 'culture of non-waste' must be taught to all categories of citizens and encouraged through public measures aimed at product control. the citizens must be involved in the process of separate collection, they must learn how to reuse the daily surplus that has not been used up in the kitchen and they must have good information about the causes and effects of this surplus. in this way, everyone can contribute to environmental conservation by reducing waste and increasing savings.
in writing. - i congratulate mr caronna on his work. the text adopted, in the light of the fao study on food loss and waste worldwide, is a clear statement by the european parliament on the enormous food waste which still occurs in europe. the main objective of this report is to make the fight against food waste a priority on the european political agenda. it calls for cooperation between member states and european institutions to develop concrete measures and strategies to halve food waste along the entire supply chain by 2025. it will also be important to launch an awareness and information campaign to make citizens aware not only of the causes and consequences of waste but also of the opportunities to reduce it.
in writing. - the level of food waste has increased by 50% over the last 30 years. we cannot allow this waste to grow any further, the situation is not ethically sustainable. it has been estimated that about 200 tons of food waste per capita is produced annually, about a thousand dollars of food waste per household per year. i voted in favour of mr caronna's report because i share the effort to make a substantial step forward in the direction of reducing food waste. the report focuses on some key issues, such as recyclable packaging and the need to provide citizens with comprehensive food education, including clearer information on the expiry date of products, information that helps consumers make choices and ensures greater transparency. i am convinced that we must ensure that our citizens have a healthy, adequate and sufficient diet. a european strategy is needed to ensure greater efficiency and sustainability in the food chain, and this must be developed as soon as possible. i believe that the potential opportunities of the fight against waste should be exploited. in particular in this economic crisis, it is crucial to avoid waste.
in writing. - according to some studies, food waste worldwide has increased by 50% since 1974. and this production of surplus food that we don't consume comes at a high environmental cost, from the use of energy and natural resources to the emissions of gases into the atmosphere. the aim of this vote is to counter this trend by stressing the importance of spreading a culture of waste prevention in all member states, which must become a priority on the european agenda. citizens need to be informed not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about how to reduce it. a scientific and civic culture oriented towards the principles of sustainability and solidarity should be promoted in order to encourage the most virtuous behaviour, especially by supporting the voluntary initiatives of associations committed to promoting the culture of anti-waste.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the president of parliament for defending not only the prerogatives of our assembly but also the democratic decisionmaking of the european institutions, thus giving further strength to the praiseworthy work of mr brok, mr verhofstadt and mr gualtieri. the european growth strategy, commissioner, is contained in those references to the council's conclusions which rightly refer to the proposals that the european commission will make. we want to support the commission in this task. so innovate the decision-making process, opening not only the downstream but also the upstream of this process to the input of parliamentary committees. in this way, we will not only have more transparency but also more efficiency. mr president-in-office of the council, you have heard in this house today the deaf and dumb echo of nationalisms which forget that 65 years of peace and development for europe are the exception, not the rule of our history. please help us to make it clear to the heads of government who are more tempted to seek the approval of an uncertain public than the wisdom and beauty of the european project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in commenting on the unforgettable conclusions of the summit of 9 december we said that this parliament would watch and work to limit the damage of that very unfortunate choice. that's what happened. the united commitment of parliament in the difficult negotiations that took place certainly helped to avoid the worst. there was a real risk that the new treaty would seriously undermine the law and the common european institutions by establishing rules, mechanisms and procedures outside the union and in contradiction with its laws. it's not like that anymore. parliament, the commission and the president of the european council have averted this danger. the treaty will now have to be implemented through union legislation. the parameters for defining the deficit and the debt have been substantially, though not completely, brought back into line with the existing regulatory framework and the unfortunate hypothesis of a new parliamentary institution has been averted. but even though we have significantly limited the damage, the fiscal compact is not an adequate response to the crisis. there are still some unacceptable and unwise aspects, such as the limitation of the way in which parliament is represented at the euro summits. the possibility of the court imposing sanctions appears legally very doubtful. only if the proposals put forward by this parliament in its resolution - the financial transaction tax, project bonds and stability bonds - are finally accepted will europe be able to overcome a crisis which the one-way fiscal discipline risks aggravating instead of resolving.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, high representative baroness ashton, the arab spring has not only brought political changes but also new challenges and threats to stability. one is the growing phenomenon of gun smuggling. since the fall of gaddafi in libya, egyptian authorities have reported a sharp increase in arms smuggling activity in the sinai peninsula. ground-to-air missiles, rockets and anti-aircraft guns have been stolen from abandoned libyan army barracks and are fuelling a black market in weapons intended specifically for the gaza strip and hamas. this is a very worrying phenomenon because these weapons have the capacity to shoot down civilian aircraft as they take off and land and can end up in the hands of terrorist groups such as al-qaeda, for example in the maghreb. how can you, i ask you, help mitigate this growing threat and with what possible allies?
i would like to ask the high representative whether the libyan authorities are actually in a position to control the situation on the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, baroness ashton, it is difficult to be optimistic. the possession of nuclear weapons by tehran would have a seriously destabilising effect on the area between the mediterranean and the caucasus and could trigger a nuclear arms race in neighbouring states which for various reasons fear tehran, such as saudi arabia or turkey. iran's latest shahab 3 missiles can hit european union member states such as greece, cyprus, romania and bulgaria and would make possible the tehran regime's threat to destroy the state of israel. a nuclear iran could indeed block the strait of hormuz, making any political or military countermeasures extremely risky. we cannot afford another north korea in the middle east. the new sanctions decided by europe are undoubtedly positive, but time is running out to find a diplomatic solution to this crisis and to avoid the military option.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, i believe that the most visible part of the changes linked to brics, and also the most significant in terms of the consequences for the life of our societies, is that which concerns the economic and commercial penetration of these emerging powers. these are changes which can lead to stability and widespread prosperity, but which require adequate speed, both with the responses in the international rules - and we know that in the wto, unfortunately, the negotiations are at a standstill - and with greater integration of our foreign policy with trade policy, taking into account the fact that our foreign policy is unfortunately still embryonic in some respects, while trade policy, thanks to the exclusive powers of the lisbon treaty, is perfectly functional. i wonder, for example, what the role of the commercial staff in our embassies is. these trade representatives are not part of the european external action service but will play a role in brics as important, if not more important, than that of our diplomats.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to renew my congratulations to the president on his re-election. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr fisas ayxela, for the excellent work he has done: it's a very comprehensive report, and we're sending an important signal in the field of sport. the rapporteur has done a good job and he has also done a good job with all the shadow rapporteurs and i thank them, of course, for the result. i would also like to extend my greetings to commissioner vassiliou. it is a good sign, moreover, that we are having this debate and finalising this report in the year of the olympic games, which is the pinnacle of sport worldwide, the moment when sport becomes a global exchange and socialization. for this reason, we have emphasized the role of sport as a means of combating discrimination, thinking about how difficult it is still for women, for example, to play sports in some countries, such as iran, which is not only a cause for concern for its nuclear choices. another important element is the idea of supporting the designation of the european capital of sport, under the aegis of aces, the association of european capitals of sport. as the cultural capitals initiative teaches us, these are times when the promotion of activities is at its highest level among young and old. the report also includes the fight against doping, attention to gambling and the rediscovery of traditional games. i think we have done a good job of honouring to the fullest the new competence in sport that the treaty of lisbon has given us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have always believed that sport plays a fundamental educational role. by promoting educational and cultural values, sport is also a means of integration, confrontation and growth. the aim must be to bring about greater uniformity and at the same time to ensure that sport is accessible to all european citizens without any discrimination. it cannot therefore be confined to a single state, but concerns all the member states of the european union as a whole. the european union must act at a time when sport is going through a severe and persistent crisis, mainly because of the criminal activities connected with it. just think of the scandals involving betting shops or the manipulation of races for profit. in the light of these considerations, it is both necessary and desirable for the european institutions to exercise greater control over the world of sport in order to stem any possible drift. detailed and enforceable regulation would allow the standard of sport governance to be improved. the report also calls for the commission to take action to ensure that the rules on the use of the euro are respected.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to wish you all the best for your new appointment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that we are debating today in the plenary a resolution which is the result of the many petitions that have been received by the european parliament and which refers specifically to the question of waste. these petitions demonstrate the concern of european citizens about the environmentally and health-damaging, as well as uneconomic, management practices that characterize various territorial realities in europe. while i agree with the overall structure of the resolution, i am rather dissatisfied with the way in which the incineration issue has been dealt with in certain parts. at times it seems that technology has completely overcome every problem related to the health of citizens and the environment. until last year, in this very house, we heard the same words about nuclear power stations. but today, in this very house, it is difficult to find anyone who is prepared to defend nuclear energy. is it possible that politics is utterly incapable of foresight? we must wait for further studies to confirm the cancer and epidemic peaks already seen today in the population living near incinerators. it is not the nimby syndrome of the citizens, but it is exclusively a matter of defending the right to health. the alternatives exist, they are virtuous and they create jobs. the spirit of the waste directive must be implemented in a rigid manner, with a waste cycle based on the concepts of reduction, reuse and recycling. landfill and incineration are the residual, lower-ranking options, used only after everything possible has been done. if there were a political will to do so, incinerators would be a good memory. i think that parliament should take a more forward-looking position, more protective of the citizens on this front. i hope that the european commission will propose stricter criteria and procedures for the construction of incinerators and the opening of landfills, and encourage serious zero waste policies in all member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr iturgaiz angulo, for his work. this own-initiative report by the committee on petitions arose out of the strong need, felt by many, to respond more fully to the citizens who have addressed the committee on petitions with numerous requests, which are then genuine complaints, about a serious and incorrect application of community law in the environmental field, but in particular in the field of waste management. one hundred and fourteen petitions, in what we can call a short time span, from sixteen different countries with peaks in countries like spain, ireland, italy and greece. the most frequent complaint is that of incorrect activation of waste incineration and treatment plants. this means that the public is not well informed about the advantages of the advanced technologies used for this type of installation. i believe that this sector is very, very important, especially at a time of such delicate circumstances as the one we are experiencing, namely the global financial crisis which is also devastating the european union. as the commission has repeatedly said, having carried out numerous in-depth studies on the subject, a different use of waste would save the european union over eur 72 billion and create over 40 million jobs. i think these are important figures, especially when you combine them with the environmental and health benefits that are the first real concern of all of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very well balanced report which rightly refers to the principle of subsidiarity and thus recognizes the important and prominent role of the states. the report also outlines a europe of different speeds. as far as my country is concerned, there are two speeds. on the one hand there are certain municipalities and regions - i am mentioning naples and campania - which are a disgrace to us who currently have the identity card of the italian state, a great disgrace which we continue to denounce. on the other hand, there are the virtuous municipalities of padua, where we have hundreds of mayors, for example those of the league, who are dreaming barbarians, but they are also civil people who teach and control that citizens separate and organize the collection and incineration of waste. this civil part of our country is an example for europe. then let's keep it that way. the petitions should also alert the european authorities to these situations which, as i have said, also pose a danger in campania to european tourists who go to those areas and risk it. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this is the umpteenth time that mr borghezio has referred to padania. i wonder if it's a place of fantasy like paper towns or some other hypothetical town in fairy tales. i do so because you referred to naples and campania, which i remind you is a region administered by a centre-right government in italy. so i wanted to find out where padua is and if by any chance it refers to italy, which is the place where he was elected.
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs alfano can consult the european parliament's website, where i am modestly listed as president of the provisional government of padania. it is an official document of the european parliament. and then, moving away from his mafia lands, coming north, he can read on the road signs "upper padana state road" or "lower padana state road". bossi didn't invent it. it's the civilized land of us barbaric dreamers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hundreds of petitions that have reached the european parliament from various eu countries make us realize the scale and seriousness of the problem of waste management. the report's attention to the disposal of illegal waste, which affects many regions, is interesting. in my region, as a delegation from the european parliament's committee on the environment has been able to ascertain, a high percentage of cesium 137 has been found, which is a typical nuclear waste even though there is no nuclear power station in italy. the problem is clearly european. there is an illegal waste traffic which must be monitored and curbed and which has so far been ignored by the european commission. it is therefore easy to say that only a few countries, including italy, do not apply european standards. however, given that illegal waste traffic crosses national borders, we need to think about how to deal with it at european level.
mr president, i congratulate you on your election as vice-president and i congratulate my colleague, mrs nicolai, on this excellent report. it is essential to ensure the safety of women who choose to take up the courageous career path in war situations. in many war zones around the world, sexual violence in the form of mass rape and other forms of abuse such as human trafficking are common as a tactic of war, and women are the primary victims. these unacceptable acts have serious psychological and physical repercussions, especially on women and their families. we need to be more stringent in the sentencing of those responsible for the crimes. impunity cannot be negotiated and there can be no peace without justice. it is important to increase the participation of women in decision-making roles in peace processes and in the definition of security measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that everything that has emerged from this debate deserves particular attention from the commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to stress the need, the urgent need, to ensure more transparent mechanisms in the management of funds. a few weeks ago i put a question on a case which has come to light and has been reported in all the newspapers in italy, about a young unemployed man who was hired by an ngo to beg for money without any contract, without any form of coordination with this ngo. for some unemployed people, being a subsidy-sharer for ngos is almost a second job. transparency mechanisms should be ensured in the management of the fund and in the functioning of those mechanisms and activities.
mr president, i wanted to ask for an electronic verification of the vote on the regner report, since a qualified majority is required.
madam president, sport is probably the greatest vehicle for bringing people together in europe and accessibility to sport must be guaranteed to everyone, especially people with disabilities and people with special needs. it is equally unacceptable that young girls, for example, are not allowed to undertake certain disciplines as is known for religious impositions by their parents. the rapporteur has done well to emphasize this point, because sport must be able to affirm universal values and europe cannot tolerate such practices in the name of false religious goodwill. i also believe that it is right to preserve and rediscover local, traditional and indigenous sports. in tuscany, we of the lega nord are fighting to protect the historical football in florentine costume and to rediscover the ancient game of the big ball in prato, which also represent a real manifestation of history and culture to be valued and promoted especially among young people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear from the many petitions that citizens have submitted to the european parliament on waste: the european waste management in europe is not going well. there are too many citizens who still today, in 2012, pay for the consequences of poor waste management, such as incinerators and landfills, on their daily lives and health. yet there is no shortage of good examples of environmentally sustainable waste management in the european union. we must therefore do everything possible to achieve total recycling, where waste actually becomes a real resource. this is already a reality today. there are treatment plants that recycle almost 100% of municipal waste, such as the vedelago waste facility in the province of treviso, whose technology is exported throughout europe. however, we need more controls, prevention and, above all, responsible choices. we must recycle, recover and reduce waste and say no to the huge incinerators and landfills which are often the cause of air and water pollution.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the international energy agency has estimated that at present 1.5 billion people in the world are unable to access energy sources. globally, the energy budget is projected to reach $26 trillion over the next 20 years. only 3% of this would be enough to ensure universal energy access as early as 2030. the proposal put forward by mr neuser on the possibility of developing and extending access to modern energy services must be a starting point for the european union to take targeted and effective action against the problem of poverty and sustainable development. i agree with the proposals of my colleague: we europeans must also do our part to improve access to energy for the poor in the developing countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr schmidt, which is the first initiative of the commission in the field of taxation, is a positive contribution to the outline of future legislative initiatives in this field. however, i believe that targeted action is needed in the context of national taxation policies. the commission's intention to strengthen the legal framework on taxation of savings income and the revision of the taxation of energy products is in line with this. although the member states have expressed differing views on the validity and effectiveness of this initiative, i have overall regarded the report of my colleague positively and have therefore decided to support it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am firmly opposed to giving the european union greater powers of intervention and control, including in the field of taxation. in the monetary field alone, having a common policy has not brought great benefits, but rather has brought to light numerous and widespread problems. i do not see any advantage in a more integrated tax policy, especially in a difficult period like the one we are going through. i would not like the commission, or even worse a member state, to impose a tax line on another country, because that would be really unacceptable. some statements made in recent days - see germany with greece - could lead in this direction. that said, measures to avoid problems such as double taxation or tax fraud are welcome. in this context, the european union can and must play an important role in facilitating and ensuring the best possible protection for its citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr schwab shows that competition policy within the european union has brought many benefits to consumers. the use of flexible and dynamic procedures has enabled competition policies to be a driver rather than a hindrance to the european financial and economic system. i voted in favour, as i fully agree with the objectives of the report. in particular, i share the intention to make prices more transparent in order to stimulate competition on the market and protect consumer rights. in a recession, we must try to encourage consumers. finally, i would add that the exchange of information between the commission and consumer associations should continue, be intensified and extended to all interested parties.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe it is of fundamental importance for the eu to consider, in foreign policy terms, the growing political and economic relevance of brazil, russia, india, china and south africa. in this renewed world asset, the eu must be at the forefront of the reform of the international system and must use its political leverage to continue to promote universal values. to lead this process the eu needs to act as a single and robust political and economic entity. without an inclusive new global governance system, based on full participation by the brics and other emerging economies, there will be limited international cooperation on major global issues. in addition to that there will be also the potential risk of political and economic fragmentation, and of competing world agendas. with this report indeed, we ask for a strategic partnership with each brics country as a means of advancing peace and global security, the promotion of human rights, democracy, sustainable development and global financial regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr saryusz-wolski. in the perspective of a global economy, in terms of gross domestic product, china is expected to become the world's largest economy by 2020 and india could be the country with the highest economic growth by 2050, while the so-called bric countries (brazil, russia, india and china) together with indonesia, mexico and turkey will have an economic weight greater than that of the g7 countries as a whole. if the economic growth of the brics and emerging economies is further consolidated, these countries will acquire a strong foreign policy relevance on the world stage, but given the interdependence of the world economies, the consolidation of the economic leadership of the emerging economies will depend on the well-being of the emerging economies. this presents a major opportunity for the eu: taking into account the new political weight of brics, it will be able to exert its political influence to promote universal values of the future multipolar system of global governance and to be at the forefront of the process of reforming the international governance system. the eu will therefore have to act as a single, strong political and economic entity, considering emerging countries as valuable partners of the west.
in writing. - as the current economic crisis shows, there is a high degree of interdependence between the emerging and the emerging powers. we support this report because it aims to discuss the foundations of a new inclusive system of global governance and to make recommendations, while identifying key areas of reform where the eu could seek to streamline its action and institutional architecture, thereby increasing its potential and effectiveness as a global actor. the european union has a long-standing commitment to the principle of subsidiarity, and its commitment to the principle of subsidiarity is reflected in the european council's conclusions of 15 and 16 december. the european union will have to take due account of the new political and economic weight of these countries and other emerging powers, use its political influence to promote universal values in the new multipolar system of global governance that is emerging, and be at the forefront of the process of reforming the system of international governance.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur that we need to lay the foundations for a new inclusive system of global governance. the european union cannot ignore the growing political and economic weight of the brics countries and other emerging powers. we must use our political influence to promote those universal values that have allowed us to grow in peace for 60 years. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − i am in favour of an eu comprehensive approach to the brics countries, but it must be stressed that these countries are emerging rather than emerging and that europe must increasingly look at them as competitive partners in both its trade, strategic and political relations. today, international trade has become a foreign policy instrument and if we want to create a new system of global governance, we must keep in mind the economic issues and the current position of these countries, which, like china, are pursuing an expansionist policy, not always transparent, in terms of finance, trade and economy towards industrialized and developing countries. europe cannot afford to lose the opportunity to tackle the great cross-border challenges, from climate change to food security, by joining forces with powers destined to have an economic weight greater than the g7 countries as a whole, but at the same time it must be vigilant to ensure that market rules, free competition and mutual political recognition do not just remain on the cards of international agreements but are also respected in those countries, such as the brics, where sometimes the system of values and freedoms takes on forms different from ours. the market cannot ignore the respect for the most basic human rights.
in writing. the brics countries (brazil, russia, india, china and south africa) are emerging as a growing force on the international political scene. in terms of their potential for economic development, these countries will be the main competitors and/or partners of the west both in terms of foreign policies and trade agreements. the report under discussion raises the possibility of the eu opening up its foreign policy to the views of the brics countries, which, aware of the growing weight of their gdp and economies, are creating a common platform in terms of foreign policy. the aim is to seek a new system of global governance that is sufficiently inclusive of the brics countries.
in writing. - i agree with many of the points made by my colleague jacek saryusz-wolski on the subject of relations with the brics: the idea that the union should have its own comprehensive and comprehensive approach to the issue; the idea that the growing role of emerging countries, in particular the brics, should be fully recognised within the framework of rules and values, in particular those enshrined in the un charter; the idea that parliamentary diplomacy can make a decisive contribution to the development of friendly relations, especially in those countries where parliamentarism is becoming more established; the idea that the establishment of a full political relationship with emerging realities cannot be done without considering crucial issues such as the environment, rights and working conditions. on the contrary, i am very puzzled by the request for visa liberalization with brazil. the migration dynamics are too complex to be dealt with by an immediate opening of borders, especially in a time of economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing. that is why i have decided to abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. - to overcome the crisis in the domestic market, european companies are looking for new outlets in the brics countries (brazil, russia, india, china, south africa). this is shown, among other things, by business trips to brazil, which increased by 30% compared with last year. similar speech for the east: the growth in china (+27%) was considerable, with beijing, hong kong and shanghai being the traditional destinations, and other smaller destinations added, reflecting the fact that european companies are increasingly investing in the new emerging economies. the high degree of interdependence between the emerging and the emerging powers also requires a review of the eu's respective bilateral policies towards the bric countries. a final figure for movements to india and south africa, which have also increased by 19 and 18 per cent respectively.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because the european parliament must reiterate once again that sanctions are not an end in themselves and that decisions on sanctions by the eu should be taken only after thorough evaluation of the most efficient way to support democratic change. the eu has often applied its sanctions policy inconsistently by treating third countries with similar human rights and democratic records differently. such behaviour has often encouraged criticism for applying double standards. with this resolution we want to stress that sanctions should be applied regardless of political, economic and security interests. all restrictive measures must comply with international humanitarian law and with the principle of proportionality and must not penalise the most vulnerable population groups in countries affected by these measures. for these reasons i consider the ‘targeted sanctions’ overall a better instrument. sanctioned leaders will be affected only if they are personally subject to pressure in the form of restrictions on their ability to move money, invest and access their financial assets, restrictions for travel or for diplomatic representation.
in writing. - european policy towards regimes that violate the principles of democracy and freedom and the human rights of their peoples has often been the subject of strong criticism. there has often been, and culpably still is, a fundamental ambiguity, which has led the eu, while acknowledging the undemocratic character of many governments, to remain silent on the subject and to continue to forge political and economic links with these countries, limiting itself to inserting clauses on respect for human rights in the various cooperation agreements, which many regimes obviously do not respect. in this own-initiative report, parliament calls on the eu to adopt stricter measures and policies against political actors and prominent figures belonging to non-democratic regimes in third countries when they exercise personal or commercial interests in the territory of the 27 member states. attention is also drawn to the need to make violations of freedom of religion and expression in third countries sufficient grounds for sanctions and non-political responses by the member states and the eu as a whole. the committee also calls for more precise codification of the forms, methods and procedures for applying sanctions. my vote is in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i share the need, expressed in it, to make the european directives which provide for restrictive measures against authoritarian leaders more binding and applicable. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. whereas it is therefore desirable to improve coordination between the member states in the application of such measures imposed at community level; in addition, eu member states must actively investigate and prosecute natural and legal persons who have assisted sanctioned leaders and persons connected to them in the european territory to evade or avoid sanctions imposed against them. finally, clear criteria must be established for the application of restrictive measures and the objectives pursued by them must be identified: the european union has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. as the report rightly points out, 'the union's action is based on 'democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law'. the european institutions must be consistent with our treaty, we can no longer turn a blind eye to the violations perpetrated by authoritarian regimes around the world, and that is why sanctions policy must be an instrument capable of exerting a real influence on the governments of these countries. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − having a coherent european policy towards representatives of non-european totalitarian regimes is fundamental to the protection of the human rights for which we speak. it must also be in relation to the assets and interests held by these political leaders within the eu territories. from the freezing of assets of former libyan leader gaddafi to those of former presidents of tunisia and egypt, the eu needs to take proportionate and equivalent restrictive measures against every dictatorial regime. i therefore think it is important to urge the council to apply these restrictive measures whenever necessary.
in writing. - i share and support the conclusions of mr watson's report. the union is now the world's largest market and the largest donor of development aid. it is a unique opportunity to promote the rights and respect for the rules of peaceful coexistence of the community of states. unfortunately, bureaucratic red tape and lack of synergy have so far meant that eu restrictive measures against regimes that do not respect international law have not always had the deterrent and sanctioning effect that they should have. it is unfair that sometimes already oppressed populations or european businesses and citizens have suffered the consequences of sanctions while corrupt and violent local elites have been able to evade them. it is also unfair that third countries should benefit from, and have benefited from, european respect for the rule of law and human rights. i therefore join the rapporteur, mr watson, in calling on the council to adopt as soon as possible clear rules, which are uniformly applied and subject to periodic review, so that restrictive measures can be more effective.
in writing. - i congratulate mr watson on his work. the text adopted, in the light of the un conventions on human rights and article 21 of the teu, is intended to be an explicit request by parliament to the council to maintain a consistent approach towards all regimes to which the european union applies restrictive measures. the call for clearer criteria for the cases in which restrictive measures should be applied and for a common and coherent policy on sanctions are top priorities, especially in this delicate international period. it will also be essential to strengthen restrictive measures against recognised authoritarian regimes, seeking to minimise their relations with the european union.
in writing. − this vote will help to develop clearer policy definitions for regimes against which the european union has applied restrictive measures. first of all, it must be recognised that sanctions are not an end in themselves, but must be accompanied by clear and feasible benchmarks for their removal. then there is unity in decision-making: the european union should commit itself to maximising collaboration and synergies between the 27 member states of the european union, urging them to speak with a single and coherent voice against authoritarian regimes through a single integrated approach. in fact, if not coordinated at international level, sanctions may prove ineffective and counterproductive in achieving their stated objectives, undermine the transparency, credibility and coherence of european sanctions policy, strengthen the regime for which they are intended or reduce the credibility and the relative negotiating margin of the european union and the member states with the country concerned.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of mrs regner's report. i find it appropriate to request, on the basis of article 50 (1) and (2) (g) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for a directive on the crossborder transfer of company headquarters. the directive must first clarify the question of the separation between the registered office and the administrative office of a company.
in writing. - the transfer of the head office abroad, from the point of view of professional practice, is an operation which, in recent times, is receiving increasing interest, also, but not only, in connection with the growing phenomenon of the relocation of companies, as a strategic lever to manage the current crisis of the economic system. the location of production activities in markets offering highly competitive supplies, both in terms of raw materials and especially labour, or in systems with less onerous tax systems, is in fact one of the main responses that companies are preparing to face globalised markets, where competition with the economies of emerging countries is increasingly strong. the legal continuity of the transferred company, its recognition in the state of destination and in the state of origin, and the legislation applicable to the company being transferred, are all matters which depend on the legal systems in force in the countries involved in the transfer, and in particular on the type of company incorporation and recognition adopted by the states. my vote in favour of this morning's text is therefore aimed at seeking a measure which can bring the different laws of the member states closer together.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr ehrenhauser's report. the report stresses the need to ensure a high level of transparency and reliability within the framework partnership agreement with ngos, for which i believe that the administrative costs for the partners must be drastically reduced. i also welcome and support the decision to increase the budget for humanitarian aid for the period 2014-2020, provided that, in view of the crisis, it is allocated efficiently and managed in a responsible manner. finally, i regret and ask for an explanation as to why the commission did not allow dg echo access to the final reports of the partners on the implementation of humanitarian actions in haiti and pakistan in 2010.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it points out the need for strengthening the efficiency and effectiveness of budgetary control over the eu humanitarian aid managed by dg echo. the text underlines the areas of weakness in control over the funds and proposes improvements to be made. we stress the importance of establishing a clear regulation with the scope to have a single integrated reporting model, which would simplify the complexity of the administrative procedures. in this regard i also support the fact that echo is currently working on the development of a comparative cost information system in order to analyse the cost-effectiveness of project proposals. the awareness of project efficiency would finally allow echo to avoid investing in unfruitful projects.
in writing. − this report has the merit of focusing the european parliament's attention on the management of the commission's humanitarian policy, which, through the directorate-general for humanitarian aid, delivers humanitarian aid to such an extent that the eu is the world's largest donor. the management of humanitarian funds has long been a matter of concern, which the european parliament and the court of auditors have recognised and often brought to light. our assembly is therefore calling on the commission in this report to take some important steps to improve the management of humanitarian aid. as the rapporteur has pointed out, it is necessary to ensure that the partners actually follow up on the findings made during the audit procedures, and to ensure that case-by-case reports drawn up by the un clearly indicate the results produced by individual projects in the area concerned by the financial assistance. it is also necessary to improve practices and methods of evaluating potential partners in the framework of the partnership agreements, and finally to pay due attention, from a strategic perspective, to the possibility that humanitarian aid policy towards certain actors may generate negative effects, such as the possibility that food aid will depress local productive capacities. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. the directive is certainly moving in the direction of better management of humanitarian funds, starting with greater transparency and more effective controls to prevent fraud and corruption. it is essential, first of all, to work to remedy the genericity of the reports submitted, from which it is particularly difficult to obtain sufficient information on the results, the product and the effect of the interventions. the report also lays great stress on the need to create continuity between emergency interventions and development programmes. in particular, it might be useful to think of a period of coexistence between emergency and development agencies, by implementing some form of passing of deliveries. it is hardly likely that those who manage the emergency well will also be prepared to deal with the problems associated with development projects. the current system is likely to create discontinuities, negating or undermining the effectiveness of possible long-term results. finally, the call for greater visibility of the interventions, not for 'advertising' purposes, but to allow greater rationalization of the interventions, is welcome and should be supported. the committee therefore voted in favour of the report and hoped that the recommendations contained in the report would be taken into account in the process of reforming the cqf framework.
in writing. − the european union must strengthen its capacity to respond to the increase in major natural disasters. for years we have been calling for a more realistic humanitarian budget in order to avoid chronic under-financing of the budget lines concerned and to ensure a consistent balance between the financing of actions aimed at preventing humanitarian disasters and those aimed at responding rapidly to emergencies, whether natural or man-made. we therefore recognise the benefit of seeking new funding through dg echo and its partners, but we also stress that effective control of the use of funds in the context of audits of partners by private firms is essential and contributes to legitimising the humanitarian sector. we therefore welcome the efforts made by dg echo to promote the use of innovative approaches such as the cash-based approach, in particular unconditional transfers for the most vulnerable groups. these approaches may be more effective without necessarily entailing a higher fiduciary risk than in-kind assistance.
in writing. - as the rapporteur rightly points out, i find it unacceptable that the commission has not provided parliament with the financial statements and final reports of echo's partners on the implementation of humanitarian actions in the days following the disasters in haiti and pakistan in 2010. parliament must have access to these reports in order to be able to assess the financial management. this practice must also be changed to encourage better interaction between european institutions and with international humanitarian organisations.
in writing. − the european union is one of the world's leading humanitarian donors. in order to organise the work on humanitarian aid, a dg (directorate-general) of the commission, echo, was set up to manage the complex system of managing the budget and the destination and request for aid. the great importance of this directorate-general often creates areas of conflict with regard to competence in the control of financial resources, which is why it was felt necessary to take action for a review of the financial regulation in order to increase the responsibility and competence of those who manage the humanitarian aid budget. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − this vote will ensure more efficiency and effectiveness in the control, monitoring and oversight system of the european commission's directorate-general responsible for the implementation of eu humanitarian aid. the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. in 2010, the total contribution in terms of humanitarian aid, including that from the member states, was eur 2 957 million in total. echo also carries out its mandate by funding some 200 partners: non-governmental organisations, un agencies, international organisations and specialised agencies of the member states. the enormous disasters in haiti and pakistan have once again demonstrated that the european union's disaster response instruments need to be improved in terms of efficiency, speed and coordination. these events, however tragic, have highlighted how much more needs to be done to improve and strengthen management and accountability.
in writing. - regulations defining the subject matter of collective actions are not only desirable but urgent and indispensable. this is all the more so when we consider that in most cases the 'collective' victims are those who belong to the weaker sections of the population, both in terms of education and economically. this implies that, in most cases, infringements against these groups go unpunished because of economic obstacles (disproportion between the costs of an individual case and any compensation) and psychological obstacles (fears about the length of proceedings) and the difficulties in accessing the necessary information. on the other hand, the merging of claims would not only strengthen the procedural position of the applicant but also simplify the procedures and reduce costs. on the other hand, there are many difficulties, both in relation to the different jurisdictions in the individual states and in relation to the desirability of containing the abuse of the instrument. in any case, the eu should adopt a common horizontal approach to the issue, without following the us class action model and without changing national legislation, and establish a horizontal reference framework instrument enabling citizens and businesses to assert their eu-enforced rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on collective redress because i believe that the completion of the european single market also and above all requires the harmonization of consumer protection. it is essential, however, that the mistakes made in the united states are not repeated here in europe, where class action lawsuits have become the primary source of income for a handful of powerful law firms, and have only rarely proved to be an effective consumer protection tool. the european union can do better than the united states in this area: firstly, by encouraging the parties to reach alternative agreements, which do not require the formal use of the legal instrument, and thus by simplifying and speeding up the time; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers' interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. only in this way can we prevent a useful instrument for protecting citizens from becoming a means of unfair competition between private parties. the report voted on today goes in that direction and is therefore a good starting point for future work.
in writing. − when a group of citizens is suffering the same wrong, individual remedies may not be an effective means of stopping illegal practices or obtaining compensation. i agree with the need for a european collective approach and i also agree that collective actions, by avoiding parallel litigation on issues of the same nature, can bring benefits in terms of reduced costs and increased legal certainty for claimants, defendants and the judicial system. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − i have always maintained that alternative dispute resolution is the most effective measure of mediation in the field of consumer disputes. the single market and the internet create a virtual trading space in which citizens want to place their trust. nevertheless, consumers are often left alone in the face of producers. it is a david-goliath struggle, which leaves no room for recognition of the rights enshrined in the directives on which we are daily engaged. class actions are an experience that consumers have undertaken to make their otherwise thin, isolated voice count. i personally believe that alternative dispute resolution mechanisms should be encouraged, even though they often depend on the willingness of the commercial operator to cooperate. the availability of an effective judicial redress system would strongly encourage the parties to seek an out-of-court settlement and would therefore be likely to avoid a high number of disputes; the establishment of alternative dispute resolution (adr) schemes at european level should be encouraged in order to allow for an effective settlement of disputes which is a more attractive option than judicial proceedings and also proposes the prerogative to order the parties involved to seek first a collective settlement before bringing a collective action.
in writing. the report by mr lehne, for which i voted in favour, aims to improve european regulation on collective redress. the eu needs to protect citizens and businesses who must be able to enforce their rights under existing legislation effectively and efficiently. improvements in legislation on consumer protection cooperation, consumer protection injunctions and injunctions are intended to protect victims of unlawful conduct. it is often the case that citizens give up seeking compensation because the costs of an individual action for compensation are too high and the effective application of the laws in force is thus indirectly undermined.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mr lehne. the text adopted, in the light of the commission's green paper on collective redress for consumers, is a clear call by parliament for further improvement of access to justice. the collective action should not be seen as a special category compared to the individual action, but simply as the concrete way to achieve the same result for all, through a single legal action. clear and precise rules on collective redress are needed to reduce the burden of litigation and to allow the matter to be dealt with in a horizontal manner.
in writing. - with this vote we have certainly missed an important opportunity to enable our smes to communicate the improvements made to products in terms of reducing salt, sugar and fat. i would remind you that under current legislation, a company wishing to improve its nutritional characteristics must make a drastic change to its recipe, which is a rather problematic operation, particularly for smes, both from a technological and economic point of view. the use of comparative nutrition claims is now allowed only if the product contains at least 30% less of the indicated substance than the average of the product category. the proposed claim would be granted for one year only, thus encouraging a gradual reformulation of the products. this would allow consumers to adapt to the gradual reduction in fat, sugar and salt content with the resulting health benefits. there are already positive experiences in this respect, such as in england, where the population is getting used to a less salty taste through a very gradual reduction in the salt content. i therefore hope that the commission will come forward with a new proposal as soon as possible, which can be accepted by the european parliament.
in writing. - parliament does not doubt the good faith of the european commission, but it cannot refrain from expressing its perplexity in the face of a proposal such as the one under discussion today in plenary. consumers want clear labels and simple nutritional information, not marketing operations disguised as protection of the right to information. claiming that a food now contains x% less of [name of nutrient] could lead to unfair competition with existing claims such as reduced rate of [name of nutrient] and light/light; the latter is also required to be reduced by at least 10% (for micronutrients), 25% (for sodium) or 30% (for sugars/fat) compared to other similar products; in practice, a consumer might think that the quantity specified in the indication 'now contains x% less [name of nutrient]' would result in a greater reduction than that corresponding to the indication 'reduced rate of' or 'light' despite the fact that the requirements for these indications are much more stringent than those applying to the indication 'now contains x% less [name of nutrient]' which requires a minimum reduction of only 15%. i am therefore glad that this parliament has decided to refer the proposal back to the commission for amendments which will balance its main purpose.
in writing. - the resolution, like the one adopted at the january plenary session, proposes the extension of the community method, with the consequent further deprivation of sovereignty of the member states. the position of the united kingdom is deplored for having opposed the latest development towards further centralisation of the european legislative and institutional architecture. instead, i think it's right to look for an alternative to what we've done so far: the crisis also stems from the centralization of the community, the weight of the european bureaucracy and apparatus, and the centralized management that reigns supreme in brussels. the way out of the crisis is for europe to take a path of freedom, not centralism. my vote is against the resolution.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to make it clear that i intend to vote in favour of the resolution, if only in order to preserve the unity of parliament and to strengthen the position of its president within the european institutions. in this connection, the reference to the lack of involvement of the president of parliament in informal meetings within the framework of european summits is welcome, a vulnus which should be rightly stigmatised and deplored. the problem is also to defend and strengthen the positions of those political groups which are fighting for a united europe, confident that the crisis can find a proper solution only if it is tackled in a united manner, avoiding the risks of nationalistic and selfish drift. every day, these groups, especially in some parts of the continent, have to deal with demagogic and populist propaganda which denigrates the union and its institutions. we are also voting in support of these forces. it is important to stress, however, that europe cannot be represented and contained only in the austerity measures of the six pack, a measure which we opposed because we thought it was wrong and which we still consider to be partial and inadequate. we are voting for a united and strong europe which reconciles growth and social equity.
in writing. - the epp resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 30 january, which i voted in favour of, seeks to highlight parliament's position vis-à-vis the council. the agreement reached can and must certainly be improved, but in the meantime progress must be made. the agreement reached by 25 of the 27 member states on the fiscal compact aims to bring public debt to a sustainable level and ensure budgetary parity among the member states. we should probably make sure that we have an internal eu budget that is geared towards a union of european states that is really able to cope with crises, but small steps in the right direction seem to be taking place.
in writing. - the last council summit discussed many measures of paramount importance. but the most awaited of all is surely the international agreement on the fiscal compact. as an italian citizen, i am very pleased with this agreement on confidence in the euro area: the 17 euro countries will now be able to meet on their own at least twice a year, but at least once a year (and whenever topics related to the institutional architecture are discussed) they will have to open up to the other member states. the summit also had the merit of turning an equally important page on growth and employment, two key issues for boosting the economies of all the member states.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because, thanks to the adoption of the amendment tabled jointly by the s&d and the greens, it clearly states that the outstanding issues with iran over its nuclear programme must be solved peacefully and that a military solution to the conflict is not even conceivable. it is also of fundamental importance to reiterate that, contrary to some states already in possession of nuclear weapons, iran is a member of the non-proliferation treaty, and as such allows for inspections of its nuclear installations by the international atomic energy agency. i support the council double-track approach, but i believe that the sanctions must be carefully targeted at and proportionate to the objective pursued. the restrictive measures should be aimed at striking the power elites of a repressive regime, minimising as far as possible the adverse impact on the civilian population, especially the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the iranian nuclear programme; parliament's position is to be welcomed in that it reminds iran of its obligations under international law by acceding to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and expresses concern at further developments in the matter which do not seem to lead to a positive solution. the process of uranium enrichment in iran is continuing uninterruptedly, and well beyond what, according to the international atomic energy agency's technicians, is required to ensure the internal energy supply. iran must comply as soon as possible with the many resolutions of the un and the iaea, without which there is a risk of a dangerous and anything but diplomatic escalation which the whole world, especially in this period of severe crisis and economic and financial instability, would gladly do without.
in writing. - it is very serious that iran has not yet complied with all the obligations arising from the un security council resolutions. the uranium enrichment programme in tehran is also a matter of great concern. i agree with the idea in the resolution for a gradual embargo against the iranian regime. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution because it strongly condemns iran for its nuclear programme and for the whole dangerous and destabilising strategy being pursued by its regime. iran has never shown any willingness to actively cooperate with the iaea, the international atomic energy agency: this is all the more serious when one considers that the asian country is one of the signatories of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, which includes several clauses that are regularly violated. the european union has done well in reacting strongly to the numerous provocations, and the embargo seems to me to be a shared choice: the continuing threats to other countries, israel in particular, which risk precipitating the ever more difficult situation in the middle east, cannot be tolerated. europe must be strong and united in opposing any possible proliferation of nuclear weapons in iran, which could pose a danger to the whole surrounding area and to the whole of the west in general.
in writing. the resolution on iran's nuclear programme adopted by this parliament is an expression of the union's concern about the possible military dimension of the iranian programme. for years now, the un, the eu and the international atomic energy agency have been imposing sanctions and embargoes on iran. unfortunately, by not allowing the iranian authorities to carry out thorough checks and by only reporting part of their work, they are putting the international community in a position to fear that the nuclear programme is being used for war, which is why the sanctions are affecting the oil, gold, diamond and currency markets. these sanctions are intended to be an attempt by the international community to put pressure on the iranian authorities to comply with un resolutions and to restart credible negotiations to restore confidence in the civilian purpose of iran's nuclear programme.
in writing. − in the context of the dual-track strategy towards iran, the sanctions established at community level are intended to put sufficient pressure on the iranian authorities to secure compliance with un and iaea resolutions and the launch of credible negotiations, which will restore full confidence in the international community about the exclusively peaceful nature of iran's nuclear programme. i support an embargo decision in view of the concerns that the iranian nuclear programme is raising in the international community due to suspicions of a military dimension, which have been heightened since the publication on 18 november 2011 of the latest report of the international atomic energy agency (iaea). the foreign affairs council conclusions also express concern about iran's nuclear programme, setting out the restrictive measures adopted and reiterating the objective of a diplomatic solution to the issue and the call on iran to respond positively to the latest offer of dialogue contained in the letter sent to the iranian authorities by mrs ashton on 21 october. i hope that the situation can return to normal as soon as possible, also in view of the possible negative repercussions that the embargo would have on the eu's energy supply.
in writing. − sport plays an important role in the lives of european citizens, considering that mass sporting events involve some 35 million amateurs, but it also plays an important role for the european economy: this is a sector that employs some 15 million people and has an annual value added of 3.65% of the union's gdp. i therefore believe that it is necessary to promote a european dimension for sport which takes account of the benefits that sport brings to citizens, both in terms of health and in terms of social, cultural and economic aspects. sport must be promoted by making it an activity accessible to all citizens, developing its role as a promoter of peace, economic growth, intercultural dialogue, integration and the emancipation of women. sport is also an effective means of affirming european identity, and it would be appropriate to devote a specific funding programme to it at this time.
in writing. − sport is an essential element for health and quality of life in our societies. the report emphasizes the positive aspects of promoting sporting culture, which is inextricably linked to the social dimension. as the rapporteur has pointed out, sport should be promoted and the creation of intra-community networks and the exchange of good practice in the field of sport should be supported. sport can also promote the social inclusion of vulnerable groups such as the disabled and foster the human and social growth of young people, who are increasingly disoriented in the contemporary world, which lacks any reference in terms of values and humanity. finally, i think it is particularly positive to refer to the need to protect traditional and local sports, which are now in danger of disappearing in large numbers, when they represent an invaluable treasure without which it will be difficult in the future to preserve our cultural traditions and our local specificities and peculiarities, a real added value of our continental history. my vote is in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. article 165 tfeu confers on the european union the task of promoting and developing the european dimension in sport. it actively contributes to the eu's strategic objectives because of its cultural, educational and, above all, integration value. although many issues are of close concern to individual member states, the eu needs to focus on major issues such as doping, athlete mobility, racism and violence in sport. in addition, all efforts must be made to combat all types of illegal activity: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal use of drugs, money laundering, match-fixing and the exploitation of children, which are a real threat to sport and the values it represents. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should be asked to establish a 'european day of sport' every year to raise public awareness of the benefits of sport. sport is a collective good that must be preserved and cultivated.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fisas ayxela report because i believe it represents an important exercise in defining priorities for european action in the field of sport. i welcome the mention of the respect for the fundamental rights of athletes during the controls provided for by the anti-doping procedures. it is essential to ensure that these rights are respected, in particular by establishing a procedure at european level which guarantees the athlete and does not leave room for arbitrariness, which can have a very damaging effect on the career of athletes. the use of the biological passport as a tool for investigation rather than prevention has led to highly discriminatory incidents, which have led to the termination of the careers of athletes who have been burdened with the burden of proof even without clear evidence of doping. in this situation, the burden of proof is on the defendant, which is contrary to the fundamental principles of the person, in particular article 6 of the echr. i therefore thank my colleague mr fisas for his commitment to guaranteeing and protecting not only the interests of sports federations and clubs but also the freedoms and fundamental rights of athletes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important report on sport which is a response to the commission's communication on sport and anticipates the proposal to create a sub-programme for sport in the multiannual programming 2014-2020. we have been pushing for the following points with the s&d group: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the following issues: the introduction of sport as a compulsory subject in school curricula, the need to encourage the practice of sport by women and girls from disadvantaged backgrounds, the emphasis on sport as a motor of social integration and as a tool to combat intolerance, racism and violence, the increase in the protection of minors in sports competitions, the fight against doping, the use of the european flag at all official sports events, the establishment of a european day of sport and the extension of the erasmus programme to sports.
in writing. - too often, the news still reports incidents of violence linked to sports matches. fan riots are a common phenomenon throughout the eu and require action by all member states. in the text adopted today we are calling for the banning of fans who are responsible for violent and discriminatory behaviour from entering stadiums. more coordinated and effective action will prevent tragic incidents of violence, such as the one that occurred yesterday in egypt, where some 74 people died in the riots that followed a football match, from happening in europe. i agree that it is also essential to adopt a more effective integrated approach in the fight against doping, which, in addition to being contrary to the principles of fairness and justice in sports competitions, is a serious threat to the health of both professional and amateur athletes. i therefore hope that the european union will be able to play a more active role in defending the integrity of sport, by addressing those challenges which undermine its important social and educational function.
in writing. - i supported the fisas ayxela report because i think it has highlighted the main issues that need action by the union. the lisbon treaty gives the union the task of developing the european dimension in sport by promoting cooperation between bodies responsible for sport and protecting the physical and moral integrity of sportsmen and sportswomen. sport contributes to the achievement of the union's strategic objectives by playing an important role in various areas such as social inclusion, education, training and public health. however, corruption, money laundering and other forms of financial crime affect sport at local, national and international levels. given the high degree of internationalisation of the sector, corruption in sport often takes on cross-border aspects. member states must therefore take all necessary measures to prevent and punish illegal activities that undermine the integrity of sport. in addition, with regard to the phenomenon of illegal betting, it is essential that member states develop tools to encourage cooperation between public authorities, sports authorities and gambling operators in relation to cases of sports fraud, as well as to address the issue of gambling addiction and the protection of minors in this area.
in writing. - recognising the european dimension of sport, we believe that sporting rules must be in line with european union law and in particular the charter of fundamental rights. in this respect, we cannot but share the need for transparency and accountability in management structures. we therefore call on sports organisations to adopt a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption and to apply ethical codes inspired by moral integrity and the genuine values of fair competition. we also call on the commission and the member states to adopt a harmonised approach to corruption in sport and stress that the fight against doping should be fully in line with eu law, in particular the charter of fundamental rights, privacy and data protection legislation and labour law.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mrs fisas ayxela's report because i am convinced of the importance of combining sport and school learning. the aim, which is not confined to one country but concerns all eu member states, must be to bring about greater uniformity and at the same time to ensure that sport is open to all european citizens without any discrimination. the sport is going through a period of crisis mainly because of the criminal activities that have been linked to it. the european institutions should exercise greater control over the world of sport in the face of the current developments. to counter this drift, regulation would most likely improve the standard of sports governance. therefore, action to regulate the activity of sports agents and player transfers and to combat fraud and doping are all measures which are useful to this end. finally, the establishment of a 'european day of sport' and the designation of an annual 'european capital of sport' are, in my view, excellent instruments to bring citizens closer to sport.
in writing. − the report provides a comprehensive overview of the challenges facing the world of sport today and offers interesting insights and suggestions for dealing with these problems. i also believe that the report makes a real contribution to identifying measures that can ensure the sustainable financing of sport and the protection of the integrity of competitions in the future. however, the recognition of a right to exploit sports events for betting purposes is not the only means of ensuring the economic viability and integrity of sport. the eu member states, like italy, have efficient systems for allocating funds and i believe it is essential that they can maintain their good practices in respect of the principle of subsidiarity. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - in the face of worrying rates of obesity among young europeans, which have led some countries such as france and denmark to introduce a tax on sugary carbonated drinks, sport is the best response we can give. our young people do not need to be taxed to understand that what they consume is detrimental to their health. our young people can determine their choice, as long as there is an alternative. today i voted in favour of this report, which proposes sport as a means of providing a common experience and a healthy lifestyle, because that is the alternative. but we need more facilities for young people, we need trainers who are trained and have qualifications that are certified and recognised in every country. we need instructors and agents, as well as players, who are encouraged to move around europe to exchange good practice. healthy sports are those in which you play to stay together and win. it is the antithesis of the message that they want to give instead of doping and easy money, which i voted against in this report.
in writing. - sport is considered to be a competition and physical activity; the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. the report by mr fisas ayxela, with which i fully agree, focuses on the social value of sport as a tool for social inclusion, around which the economy, work, health, etc. revolve. the european union is seeking to increase recognition of the importance of sporting activities and hopes that sporting projects between member states will increasingly be a means of social cohesion and improvement of the lifestyle of citizens.
in writing. - i congratulate mr fisas-ayxela on his excellent work. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has brought about a revolution in sport, because it has created for the first time a legal basis specifically for this sector, article 165. we therefore need more coordinated action at european level to combat doping, stadium violence, match-fixing and the abuse of sports agents. the european parliament is calling for the creation of a european blacklist to ban violent fans or those responsible for discriminatory behaviour from all european stadiums. the commission also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. in order to obtain a licence, prosecutors will have to prove that they have the minimum qualifications for this profession, that they are tax resident in the union and that they comply with a code of conduct.
in writing. − more coordinated action at european level is needed to combat doping, stadium violence, match-fixing and abuse of sports agents. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has brought a revolution in sport, as it has created for the first time a legal basis specifically for this sector. and today, by adopting this report, parliament is calling for violent fans and those who have been responsible for discriminatory behaviour to be banned from all european stadiums. a genuine european list will be used by the national authorities to ensure that these prohibitions remain in force also at international meetings. the member states and sports federations must also commit themselves to a more determined policy against incidents of racism and homophobia against athletes. the final text also suggests that trafficking in drugs should be treated in the same way as drug offences. i would like to stress that the final document calls for the eu to identify and remove all obstacles which might prevent girls and women from taking part in sport. increased representation of women in the governing bodies of sports federations could help to promote female sporting activity.
in writing. - after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european parliament was given new powers as co-legislator, including in the field of sport. the new european agenda on sport aims to promote physical activity for the benefit of health of body and mind, to support the fight against doping and to ensure participation in sport for all, with particular attention to people with disabilities. the report also aims to preserve traditional and local sports as a cultural heritage. i agree with the text, but i think it is pleonastic to stress that sport should enable immigrants and host countries to interact and thus promote integration. i think that at least sport should be considered for all and not favor some ethnic group.
in writing. − the development of a shared european dimension in sport is an action which is of paramount importance to the union. the treaty of lisbon has given the european union a mandate to support, coordinate and complement the measures taken by the member states in the field of sport policy. sport is an important social phenomenon and a public good in itself. for many, it is one of the most important forms of entertainment, whether they are participants or spectators. in european sport policies, the fight against doping must be supported from a sporting point of view, and action must be taken from a cultural point of view to reduce violence and riots by fans. not to mention the importance of sport to public health. with this vote we underline that sport is an important public health tool and an effective factor in reducing public health expenditure, and we reiterate that the positive effects of regular physical activity include the prevention of health problems such as obesity, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancer and osteoporosis.
in writing. - due to the numerous petitions concerning waste management, it was necessary to present this report, which i voted in favour of, to supplement the legislation in force. the inability of many local authorities in most member states to manage waste disposal is certainly a cause for concern. the concerns of many communities for human health and the well-being of the land underline that waste management is becoming a real socio-political problem. an analysis of existing policies shows that only a few member states are keeping up with the times and are also making a profit from advanced waste processing systems. in most eu countries, however, there is a worrying delay in implementing waste strategies and an over-reliance on landfills. a coherent policy and a stronger commitment to the proper application of existing legislation and to sustainable disposal plans are therefore urgently needed. more needs to be done, in line with the law, and the waste management process needs to be improved to ensure more effective environmental protection and a more sustainable future.
in writing. the report, which is the result of complaints from european citizens, shows how weak the role of the european institutions and their directives can be if they are not adequately supported by a comprehensive network of control. in this sense, the report is above all an extraordinary demonstration of how a democratic process from below can work and produce results. the report highlights the long delay in the implementation of the waste directive in some areas of europe and the numerous violations of the directive: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. however, the recent events in campania, one of the regions covered by the report, have shown that the community method, if pursued to the end, using all the levers and instruments at its disposal, including coercive measures, can lead to concrete results, allowing the overcoming of structural problems and shortcomings. the role of citizens and their complaints is welcome, but above all the awareness of the european institutions that they fully understand their own strength and role.
in writing. − in recent years, most european citizens have complained through the petition system that the public authorities in many countries are unable to deal satisfactorily with the problem of their own waste management. although the european union has adopted a draft legislative framework applicable in all member states to ensure that there is a single legal framework, the petitions received show that the concerns of many local communities have increased, indicating that waste management is becoming a major political and social problem and that citizens expect the european union to take further action in this area. we are also calling for a rapid change in attitudes towards this problem so that we do not continue to commit further violations of community legislation.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr carlos josé iturgaiz angulo because i believe that the problem of waste disposal is a priority from which the member states must not and cannot evade. it is imperative that the european waste directive be implemented in such a way as to prevent environmental disasters and health risks. according to the european commission, europeans produce three billion tonnes of waste every year. such a quantity requires a sound environmental impact assessment for landfills, as well as the proper operation of waste management facilities. it is also regrettable that some member states are having difficulties in transposing the framework directive on waste. i support the call on the commission to monitor this transposition more closely. the question of waste disposal is not only a health issue but also a part of the fight against the infiltration of organised crime into the waste management and disposal process. in this sense, i can only welcome the strengthening of the european environment agency which would contribute not only to a substantial improvement of the environment but also to providing that important and reliable information for both politicians and citizens.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the iturgaiz angulo report. the issues raised in the petition are all relevant and will certainly help the commission's work. the correct application of the waste management directive is essential to tackle what has now become a major political and social problem. the credibility of the european institutions is at stake here.
in writing. - the issue of waste management is certainly of the utmost importance and is receiving the due interest and attention of citizens, who have expressed their views on the subject through 114 petitions submitted to the european parliament over the last six years. the gap between the different member states is abysmal, with some (a few, to be honest) fully complying with european rules, while others, the majority, still have a long way to go to reach an acceptable situation in this area. it seems almost certain that a large part of the petitions from italy concern the management of waste in naples and campania: this incredible situation has been going on for many years, and there are several causes, including poor political and administrative management and the presence of heavy camorist infiltration. the report rightly points out that there is a very large business involved in waste, which organized crime is dangerously keen to get its hands on, and therefore the attention of everyone, local administrators and politicians in the first place, must be paid to this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on waste management because it is essential to ensure that our citizens have guarantees for their health and well-being. the 177 infringement procedures initiated by the eu reveal that there are 619 unfair dumping sites across the eu. the citizens are demanding clarity and procedural transparency and the number of petitions this parliament receives on waste and landfills is telling: between 2004 and 2010, it declared admissible 114 petitions alleging infringements. 40% of the work is concerned with the authorization procedures for new plants and another 40% with the operation of existing plants, but also with landfills and incinerators. data published by eurostat show that citizens produce an average of 513 kg of waste per year. citizens' reports during the public consultation process and environmental impact assessment on sites for new landfills often relate to alleged violations of protected areas, such as the vesuvius national park landfill, or concerns about the negative impact on health and well-being. europe should provide incentives for citizens who are diligent in separate collection so that taxes can be reduced and waste treatment can be made less impactful for the territory and the citizens.
in writing. - i congratulate mr iturgaiz angulo on his excellent work. waste management, if done efficiently, can attract investment and create jobs. more investment is needed to provide efficient waste management facilities and thus create wealth and jobs. in particular, the recycling industry has a european potential of half a million jobs. in addition, clearer criteria for the establishment of landfills and minimum distances from schools, homes or hospitals to reduce health risks. a system for classifying waste is also needed to help citizens understand the waste cycle, thereby increasing recycling rates. finally, to improve the fight against organised crime infiltration into the waste management process, an effective system of 'financial monitoring' of community funds allocated to enterprises by local and national authorities is needed.
in writing. − the adoption of this report highlights how waste management, if done efficiently, can bring investment and create jobs. the opportunity is therefore suggested to encourage greater investment in efficient waste management facilities, thus creating wealth and jobs. the recycling industry has the potential to create half a million jobs in europe. the house calls on the commission to propose clearer criteria for the establishment of landfills and to establish minimum distances from schools, homes or hospitals to reduce health risks. we also propose a colour system to classify waste, helping citizens to understand the waste cycle and increase recycling rates. it is also important to improve the fight against organised crime infiltration into the waste management process, perhaps by adopting an effective system of 'financial monitoring' of community funds allocated to businesses by local and national authorities.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text of the report because the issue of waste management has been the subject of petitions to the european parliament in recent years because of the failure of the public authorities in many countries to deal with this issue in a consistent and correct way. in recent years, several fact-finding missions have been carried out in the states concerned, including italy in the case of campania. unfortunately, in many places, waste management is a business in the hands of organized crime. i believe that direct action is needed to punish those who do not comply with the rules, to give citizens truthful answers, to raise awareness among local authorities and to ensure that the rules are applied in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this report. this is a text which has listed many of the problems relating to the application of the waste management rules. the references to the principle of subsidiarity are correct, and the strong interests involved in the disposal of waste, especially in certain regions, involve the mafia and organized crime in general. the campania case is well known, but it is also necessary to point out that in italy, mainly in the po valley regions, but sometimes also in the south, there are cases of excellent waste cycle management that can serve as an example for the whole of europe. to achieve these results, it is very important that citizens make a better selection of the local political class.
in writing. - in europe, about 1.3 billion tonnes of waste are produced each year, excluding agricultural waste. however, general waste should not be confused with municipal waste. overall, waste in europe is divided into 29% waste from mining, 26% waste from manufacturing, 22% waste from construction and demolition and 14% municipal waste. the production of municipal waste in europe is therefore 198 million tonnes. with a population of 375 million in the eu, each inhabitant in europe produces 527 kg of waste every year. despite efforts to recover and recycle, landfilling remains the most common solution for 54% of cases. 27% of municipal waste ends up in the recycling or composting chain. the remaining 19% of waste is incinerated with or without energy recovery. the problem of waste disposal is only one aspect of the story. i would like to stress that the amount of waste we produce is the result of our unsustainable lifestyle. our current modes of production and consumption must be changed to minimise the pressure on the earth's (non-renewable) resources. in short, waste generation is one of the best indicators of our progress towards sustainable development.
in writing. − the daphne programme is the only european programme to combat all forms of violence against women, children and young people in the eu and will be integrated into the rights and citizenship programme from 2014. in seeking a balance between administrative simplification and the protection of citizens' rights, it is appropriate that the programme be guaranteed the same funding share and that the objective of combating perpetuated violence against women and children be reinforced as a priority of the rights and citizenship programme, although this point is not explicitly mentioned among the specific objectives contained in the text in the communication from the commission on the proposal for a regulation establishing the rights and citizenship programme 2014-2020. finally, i believe that the objectives of the daphne programme must not lose their priority and that careful monitoring by the commission to avoid overlapping with other community programmes is necessary in order not to weaken a successful programme in an area where much can and must still be done.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, sharing its aims and objectives. since 2007, the daphne programme has been part of the wider 'fundamental rights and justice' programme and is the only one in europe to tackle violence against the most vulnerable in society. the aim of daphne is to contribute to the protection of children, adolescents and women against all forms of violence and to achieve a high level of protection for health, well-being and social cohesion. the programme has attracted great interest and involvement from ngos in the sector, who have submitted projects in far greater numbers than those eligible for funding. however, according to the interim report, the daphne 2011-2013 programme needs some essential changes for its correct implementation until its expiry. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. finally, programmes need to be reoriented towards the priorities of union action, for example by funding fewer but more impactful projects.
in writing. - we support the refinancing of the daphne iii programme to help protect children, adolescents and women against all forms of violence. in recent years, many of these objectives have been achieved. the european union is committed to ensuring a high level of protection of health, well-being and social cohesion by promoting the development of european policies, in particular in the areas of public health, human rights and gender equality between men and women. particular attention will have to be paid in future to actions to protect the rights of the child and to combat human trafficking and sexual exploitation. in this connection, we hope for better dissemination of the results of the projects and suggest some measures for a more effective management of the whole programme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr bastos' report because the daphne programme, which has been in operation since 1997 and is now in its third phase, is the only instrument at european union level to finance projects to combat violence against women, children and young people. the daphne programme has been increasingly successful over the years, particularly in terms of people involved such as universities and ngos and of real impact in the member states through effective projects to combat all forms of violence against women. numerous projects funded under the daphne programme have helped to eradicate forms of sexual, psychological and physical violence against women in different contexts of civil society such as the workplace, schools and families. the daphne programme often suffers from a lack of adequate visibility. more investment is therefore needed in communication campaigns to facilitate access to project funding under the daphne programme by an even greater number of national and local authorities and to find new partners in all member states of the european union.
in writing. - my vote on the report by mrs bastos is in favour. i agree with the need to ensure greater dissemination of project results and to put in place measures for more effective management of the programme. and yes, the results are good. that is why we must continue on the road we have taken. improved interaction between states would certainly be beneficial to the daphne programme. i agree with the proposal to ask the member states to organise regular data collections on violence against women in order to clarify the extent of the problem.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text in favour of the fight against violence against women and children. the daphne programme is the only european programme which contributes to the protection of children, adolescents and women against all forms of violence and to the achievement of a high level of health protection by promoting the deepening of community policies, particularly in the field of public health, human rights and gender equality, and by encouraging action to protect children's rights and to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. i hope that in the future, associations can continue to be widely involved and supported, as they play a major role in detecting unknown, taboo or new problems and addressing them in innovative ways, as well as in protecting and supporting victims. i also want action to be taken to raise awareness among younger generations of the new forms of violence linked to the increasing use of online social networks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the daphne programme: achievements and future prospects because i appreciate the important results achieved so far by the programme, although i believe that in the field of combating violence against women there is still a long way to go. i find it unacceptable to read studies which estimate that one fifth of the female population has been the victim of physical violence at least once in adulthood, and that more than one tenth has been the victim of sexual violence; 26% of children and young people also say they have been victims of physical violence during childhood. daphne certainly has a positive balance sheet: the commission has financed 500 projects - since 1997 - that have kept pace with the times and technological developments, financing initiatives such as those against cyberbullying, but also paying attention to phenomena of unfortunately long standing, such as female genital mutilation and the prevention of sexual assault. i hope, therefore, that the new programmes which will be included in the daphne programme, entitled 'justice' and 'rights and citizenship', will take account of the results achieved so far and of the feeling of war against violence which this mythological name evokes even today.
in writing. the daphne programme is the european programme to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. in recent years many eu countries have joined the programme but unfortunately we must hope for a wider dissemination of the projects and the results they produce. the programme focuses on the risks of internet surfing for children, behavioural problems of young people, the medical needs of female genital mutilation victims and the prevention of pornography. the text in question suggests some measures for more effective management of the programme with more impactful projects through more targeted funding.
in writing. − since 1997, daphne has been the only european programme helping to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. daphne started as an initiative and has become a real multiannual programme. its objectives are to contribute to the protection of children, adolescents and women against all forms of violence and to achieve a high level of protection of health, well-being and social cohesion. these objectives can only be achieved by promoting and developing effective community policies, from public health to human rights and gender equality, encouraging action to protect children's rights and combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. daphne has funded over 500 projects covering a wide range of topics: from the risks of internet surfing for children to the medical needs of women victims of human trafficking, from female genital mutilation to the prevention of pornography. in adopting this report today, parliament emphasizes the achievements made so far and calls on the commission to continue to support the programme.
in writing. the european daphne iii programme aims to protect children, young people and women against all forms of violence and sexual exploitation. the programme is open to non-governmental organisations, public authorities and institutions from the 27 member states. the european commission has committed itself to financing this programme with eur 16.7 million and last year issued an interim evaluation of the programme, noting in particular that the member states do not participate equally. for these reasons i am abstaining, as i want more transparency in the dissemination of the results of the projects.
in writing. this programme, which has proved indispensable over the years, has a noble purpose: the european union is committed to preventing and combating all forms of physical, sexual and psychological violence against children, young people and women. violence against women, for example, is a rare topic in public discourse, an undervalued phenomenon, which is often socially hidden and minimized. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. my vote in favour of the text is to underline the importance of a programme which has already developed over 500 projects. i hope that in the review of the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 the commission will confirm its intentions to renew the next generation funds in the framework of two proposals for decisions that it should present in mid-november 2011 as part of the package on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. − women have always been a category exposed to greater risks than men and where public order is not guaranteed, particularly during armed conflicts, they need greater protection and guarantees also in relation to the increased risk of being victims of sexual abuse and violence and of multiple other gender-based crimes. the european union, through its institutions and agencies, must promote in developing countries the ratification and implementation of the 1998 rome statute of the international criminal court as a necessary condition for the protection of women's rights in armed conflict and to combat impunity for perpetrators of sexual violence. the full empowerment of women requires access to education and information for women from an early age and a qualified on-the-spot support service for victims of violence, as well as adequate compensation in accordance with national and international laws. finally, i am convinced that the creation of a special representative for women, peace and security within the eeas will bring about greater coordination with the counterparts within the united nations.
in writing. - the report deals with a subject which is certainly worthy of attention; women, together with children, are by far the most vulnerable in war situations or in the post-war period, because they are often the victims of sexual and non-sexual violence, physical abuse and psychological violence. although i agree with the general approach, which calls for greater attention to the educational and schooling dimension of women in war situations and proposes a stronger commitment to gynaecological and health care for these vulnerable people, the report proposes specific measures which i do not agree with. the establishment, for example, of an eu special representative for women, peace and security, with a dedicated bureaucratic and administrative apparatus, obviously involves an expense that does not seem justifiable, given the existence within the un of a body that already operates ad hoc in the field of sexual violence in armed conflict. a duplication that is not guaranteed to be useful, but which would certainly entail additional costs compared to today. another problematic element, again for budgetary reasons, is the proposal to open new expenditure lines for gender advisers in the cfsp. for these reasons, i have chosen to abstain on this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the situation of women in war, as it is essential to guarantee the safety of women who decide to embark on a courageous career in war situations. in many war zones around the world, sexual violence in the form of mass rape and other forms of abuse such as human trafficking as a tactic of war are still common, with women being the primary victims. these unacceptable acts of violence have serious psychological and physical repercussions for the victims and their families. we must be more stringent in condemning those responsible for the crimes perpetrated against women in war. impunity cannot be negotiated and there can be no peace without justice! furthermore, the judicial process to convict perpetrators of violence against women in war is often too slow, creating further discomfort for women victims of war. finally, it is important to increase the participation of women in decision-making roles in peace processes and in the definition of security measures. women are often more sensitive to the needs of society and can make a concrete contribution to peacebuilding projects, particularly for needs related to children, school facilities or hospitals.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that women need to be more involved in military and civilian operations in war zones. women, the pillar of the community, are irreplaceable in the construction and maintenance of peace. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the situation of women in war because i believe that gender equality is an essential element of equality and freedom for everyone. in addition, as in politics and business, efforts are being made to promote the central role of women in international conflict situations. the aim is to include the role of women in the high diplomatic spheres for conflict resolution and in civil aid for the needy and social reconstruction. a project is also under way for the appointment of a european union special representative on women, peace and security.
in writing. − women's participation in peace negotiations continues to be, with rare exceptions, less than 10% of official participants today, despite the creation of the post of un special representative on sexual violence in armed conflict. all too often in war settings, women are victims of repeated sexual violence, in the form of mass rape, human trafficking and other forms of sexual abuse of women and children. and in post-conflict contexts, you can see the deterioration of women's and girls' rights, as seen in libya and egypt. the vote will make eu support for peace processes conditional on women's participation in international groups conducting peace negotiations, so that progress is made on the permanent inclusion of women leaders, local women's rights organisations and civil society groups at the negotiating table throughout the peace process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the neuser report. ensuring universal access to electricity by 2030 is an ambitious goal and fortunately europe has the means to achieve it. i share the concern to include this target in the post-2015 millennium development goals and to consider it as a prerequisite for achieving the mdgs by 2015. nevertheless, the promotion of power stations and the facilities necessary for the distribution and use of electricity will have to be carried out by means of solutions compatible with the territorial reality, considering that small and medium-scale solutions may be more suitable for developing countries. i believe that the development of such a project should be carried out through cooperation between the public sector and the qualified expertise of the private sector. finally, to ensure its sustainability, it is necessary to promote and implement the exchange of best practices.
in writing. − i voted for this text as it makes clear that the millennium development goals will not be achieved unless substantial progress is made on improving energy access. the world energy outlook 2011 of the international energy agency (iea) emphasises that worldwide about 1.3 billion people have no access to electricity. access to sustainable energy sources and modern energy services is a prerequisite for economic growth and social development, as well as for the realisation of several of the rights contained in the 1966 international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights and other international human rights and environmental legal instruments. in addition to that, although there is no millennium development goal specifically related to energy, i strongly believe that energy should move to the forefront of the debate on eradication of poverty. for this reason the commission and the member states must endorse and commit to support the un recently established international target of universal energy access by 2030, and align their policies and development cooperation with this objective. by this same means we also ask for the establishment, within eu development cooperation, of a specific ‘energy and development’ programme, with special focus on universal energy access.
in writing. − access to modern energy services is a key prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development worldwide. energy services have a general impact on people's lives and livelihoods: without such access, entire communities are condemned to a life of poverty. energy poverty in developing countries is a serious problem. over the last decade, the european union's financial assistance has been modest. bilateral cooperation between eu countries on energy assistance has focused on economic growth and environmental objectives rather than on energy access for the poor. not only will we have to increase funds (european development fund and energy facility) and allocate them more targeted to the poor and geographically isolated sections of the population, but we will be called upon to make greater efforts to invest in small-scale decentralised energy projects and, at least initially, to reduce our profit margins. only by showing political will and financial commitment can the european union play a key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030 (as envisaged by the un).
in writing. - the vast financial gap to be filled to provide access to energy for all cannot be ignored. the goal of universal access to energy is one of the most difficult challenges, but it is a just battle that we must all fight together. i therefore vote in favour of the neuser report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, in line with the objective of 'universal access to energy by 2030' launched by the un secretary-general, the european union is developing a common policy for the development of energy systems. energy is the basis of modern life, it affects the life of each of us and that is why the international community is concerned with policies to improve energy development. i too believe that the objective of achieving global energy coverage is necessary because it is a fundamental requirement for poverty reduction and sustainable development. the role of energy services is crucial to the achievement of the millennium development goals as energy development can ensure wealth, access to information, education, health and gender equality, not to mention environmental sustainability and development in general.
in writing. − the united nations general assembly has proclaimed 2012 the international year of energy. at this time of reflection, it is undeniable that access to modern energy services is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development. optimising the use of renewable sources is the ideal solution that the international community must adopt to achieve universal access to modern energy services, while at the same time combating climate change. this vote on energy actually has several objectives: to eliminate extreme poverty and hunger, to ensure universal primary education, to promote gender equality and the empowerment of women, to reduce child mortality, to improve maternal health and the situation regarding aids, malaria and other diseases, to ensure environmental sustainability and to develop a global partnership for development.
in writing. the report is intended to declare parliament's loyalty to the proposal for tax harmonisation in the eu. it is argued that the current system based on different national taxation systems creates bureaucratic difficulties and disparities in treatment between companies, hence the need to move towards a uniform tax system, giving the european union competence in tax matters. tax harmonization is also seen as a driver of growth and employment. i do not agree with these arguments, since it is the competitiveness, also from the tax point of view, of different national systems that creates opportunities for firms and workers within the framework of the common market. the diversity of tax systems also ensures that states try, as far as possible, to change their tax laws in order to try to attract employment and enterprise. instead, fiscal federalism must be encouraged as a means of achieving greater economic efficiency in our continental system, and the proposal for simplification of vat must be insisted on, together with the reduction of bureaucratic burdens for businesses and the introduction of tax incentives for smes. given the substance of the report, which is in favour of tax harmonization within the community, my vote is against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text presented by mr schmidt. for the first time, the european parliament has decided to publish an annual report on taxation. the aim is to contribute to the commission's work in 2012, focusing on the tax initiatives taken by the commission in 2011 and on areas that need further action, to improve the functioning of the single market, in order to create a more competitive and integrated europe. greater coordination of member states' tax policies is therefore needed, and a careful examination of areas where the eu could have a decisive and direct impact on the daily lives of many european businesses and citizens through positive spillovers is needed. the elimination in the member states of discriminatory tax rules which undermine the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaties of the european union is of paramount importance. finally, strong support must be given to campaigns and measures to combat tax evasion and abuse and to encourage tax transparency.
in writing. − for the first time, the european parliament has decided to publish an annual report on taxation, with the aim of contributing to the commission's work programme for 2012. we have focused on areas where we believe new initiatives are needed to improve the functioning of the single market and to create an increasingly competitive europe. we would like to stress the importance of the tax problems that most directly affect european citizens in crossborder situations within the union itself (e.g. cases of double taxation, allowances, exemptions or deductions by foreign tax authorities). we have also called for greater fiscal coordination and a greater role for the european institutions. we consider it of paramount importance to eliminate discriminatory tax rules in the member states which undermine the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaties of the european union and we call for the harmonization of methods of combating tax evasion and abuse and those aimed at increasing tax transparency in all 27 member states.
in writing. - my vote on the report on the 'annual report on taxation' is in favour. if the path towards full integration is not to be halted, it is urgent that measures be taken to eliminate discriminatory tax rules in the member states which affect the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaties of the european union.
in writing. - the report on taxation presented by the commission gives us the opportunity to finally define, in line with what the european semester will establish, a common tax strategy. i think mr schmidt's text is a good starting point which, despite some differences, such as the proposal for a financial transaction tax rejected by the united kingdom, can strengthen the european tax system. the first objective must be to achieve a balanced budget for all the member states, and then to reconcile the budgetary system with growth policies and thus promote the convergence of national economic policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr schmidt's annual report on taxation, which calls on the european commission to make proposals which will contribute to european competitiveness by eliminating the distortions of competition resulting from the various tax regimes which still exist. as regards crossborder bands, differences in taxation - the so-called excise duties - on certain products such as fuel, beverages and cigarettes are particularly important, and can easily distort competition across borders. the current economic and financial crisis has caused a significant increase in public debt in europe, the reduction of which requires both spending restraint and tax increases and the rationalisation of tax systems. therefore, measures are needed to make national tax systems more conducive to common growth, ensuring that tax disparities do not give firms in one country an undue advantage over competitors in other countries.
in writing. the current danish presidency has indicated its readiness to concentrate its efforts on reaching agreement on the revision of the savings tax directive and related agreements with switzerland and other third countries. i can say this with satisfaction, considering a recent written question i put to the european commission on this very subject. so many millions of euros that each member state could recover from such an agreement. this agreement could provide a unique opportunity to consolidate financial market policy through the management of assets in line with tax legislation. the capital and income from capital held in switzerland by nationals resident in a member state and not declared to taxation constitute a treasury from which to draw to finance rather development and growth initiatives.
in writing. − the report presents an overview of eu competition policy analysed in the context of the current economic crisis. the rapporteur rightly points out that competition is, even and especially in times of crisis, a way out of the crisis and economic stagnation. it proposed that the commission should facilitate exchanges and contacts between brussels and consumer associations on competition-related issues and stressed that cartels are detrimental both to the proper functioning of the market and to consumers, the final recipients of the production of goods and services. the rapporteur also calls for the opening up of the energy and credit rating agencies sectors, which are crucial and sensitive, and for competition to be encouraged. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that competition policy is a very important instrument for the recovery of the global economy, which has been hampered by the previous economic and budgetary crises. this policy has brought many benefits to the various member states in terms of consumer welfare and the removal of barriers to the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. in this respect, state aid has played an essential role in improving the functioning of markets and mitigating the effects of the crisis on the real economy. i believe that state aid should be allocated in such a way as not to distort competition and that resources should be invested in research and innovation. in order to further stimulate competition, it is also necessary to increase transparency in markets for the benefit of consumers and the wider economic system.
in writing. − we welcome the commission's annual report on competition policy for 2010. eu competition policy has brought many benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has emerged as an essential tool for removing barriers to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. we believe that it is an essential instrument for preserving the single market and protecting the interests of consumers, although we also believe that it is important to make changes and adjustments to update certain rules so that they can meet the new challenges. we consider the combined effect of strict principles and flexible procedures to be essential, which has enabled competition policy to be a constructive and stabilising factor in the financial system and in the real economy of the european union in general. we also stress that, in order to complete the internal market, there should be greater consistency between consumer rights across the union and we note that a well-designed system of collective redress can contribute to consumer confidence and, consequently, to the smooth functioning of the internal market and online trade, increasing the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. the rapporteur's approach to a particular focus on consumer rights in competition matters is to be welcomed. this requires increased surveillance of anticompetitive behaviour in all business sectors and the initiation of formal proceedings where necessary. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, competition policy and the strengthening of the internal market must be one of the priorities of the european union's action, especially at a time of crisis such as the present one, when it is essential to make the most of the potential that the union offers us. i hope that the new strategy will also strengthen protection for crossborder transactions, in particular for online products and services, and support financial inclusion. given the specificities of the various sectors, such as financial services, differentiation should be made to better cover specific needs. but i hope that in doing so the principles of competition and the free market will be taken into account as well, because a more protected and responsible consumer must be able to count on the efficiencies that an open and competitive market provides.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis that emerged in autumn 2008 has not yet been overcome, and in recent months financial turmoil and fears of recession have again intensified. in this context, competition policy can be an added value and can become one as a crisis management tool. the climate is favourable and supportive of citizenship, as is shown by the activity of consumer associations in the field of european competition law. the vote is a step towards greater price transparency, which is essential to stimulate competition in the single market and to give consumers a real choice. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
mr president, we have heard voices in defence of the saudi journalist's expression and opinion, which seems to me to be in contradiction with the fact that both this pvv website and the hungarian journalist are being censored. if freedom of speech is to exist, everyone must exist.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with my colleagues in the commission - president barroso and commissioner andor in particular - we naturally share your concern about the situation of the homeless in europe during this cold snap. no one can remain indifferent to the plight of those who sleep without shelter during these extremely cold nights and, more tragically, to the deaths of many people throughout europe. you are therefore entitled to ask what is being done to remedy this situation and what we can do together to deal with what is one of the most extreme and intolerable manifestations of social exclusion. naturally, the first actors concerned in the struggle to improve the situation of the homeless... (the president requests silence in the chamber) i thank you, mr president. i was saying that, as everyone knows, the first actors concerned with the situation of the homeless and housing exclusion are the member states and local actors. here in strasbourg, as in other cities across the union, local, regional and non-governmental authorities are responding to the situation by providing emergency shelter. everywhere, local authorities and civil society are acting together, taking initiatives and mobilizing. the 2010 joint report on protection and social inclusion calls on member states to develop and further develop national or regional, sometimes local, action plans to tackle homelessness and identifies areas where action is needed. it is literally vital that the member states continue this effort. they are fully aware of this and act accordingly. i think it is very important that your assembly should recall this requirement by putting this urgent debate on the agenda. although the european union's capacity for direct action is limited, we also have a role to play. the first is to remind member states of their responsibilities and to support them in their efforts. in the longer term, this means improving our understanding of the problems, including improving our instruments to measure the scale of the problem and thus take better action. for example, through the progress programme, the european union is helping to fund a new study on the links between homelessness and migration and is supporting the european federation of national associations working with the homeless. the commission also proposes in the 2014-2020 financial framework that the european regional development fund and the european social fund respond more effectively and in a more targeted way to the issue of housing for the homeless. the european funds must also be used to evaluate, test operational solutions and seek new approaches through work on social innovation. we are thinking in particular of the accommodation policy. my colleague, commissioner andor, presented an innovative approach initiated by railway companies and implemented, for example, by the european charter for social development and community development in railways. the railway companies that signed the charter have declared their intention to share their action programmes to promote a european-wide professional culture on social exclusion. this work was supported by the european initiative for innovation and social experimentation through funding for the recently completed 'hope in the stations' project, which will be extended by the 'work in the stations' project. we want to welcome the positive approach of this charter, at a time when other logics - we know this well - of withdrawal and even stigmatisation are being deployed. the charter and its ethics illustrate the commission's vision of action in the economic and social field. it is a broad view of social needs which takes account of the added value and responsibility of all the actors involved and, in particular, of associations and non-governmental organisations which play an exemplary role. let us, the businesses, the government, the regional and local authorities, the civil society leaders, each in his or her place, make this social europe a reality every day! we are challenged by the struggle today which demands this solidarity with the homeless, as your debate illustrates. we have acted but there is still much to be done. the commission, for its part, is seeking to provide the widest possible support from the union to the member states' efforts on the issue of homelessness. we are basing ourselves in particular on the work of this house as expressed in its resolution of 14 september last. finally, ladies and gentlemen, with the initiative for social entrepreneurship, published last october, and which i am, as far as i am concerned, very particular, the commission has proposed new tools which should enable social enterprises to better carry out their mission and we know that some of these social enterprises are committed to the homeless, especially when they aim to meet the needs of vulnerable people such as people without a fixed place of residence. i would like to mention three examples: better use of the structural funds, simplified rules and fewer checks for state aid for social services which accompany vulnerable people and, finally, public procurement rules which lighten the obligations for social services and which make it possible, in particular, to preserve or reserve certain markets more easily for integration enterprises. i could say that on behalf of commissioner andor and thank you, mr president, and ladies and gentlemen, for drawing our attention to this extremely serious matter at this time.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, perhaps from a provocative point of view, we could have started this plenary session with a minute's silence in memory of the more than 600 homeless people who have died in the cold in recent weeks. that's the tribute we usually reserve for the great, the famous. it would have been a symbolically strong assumption of responsibility - perhaps the first by our parliament. in fact, what we are seeing is that the participatory democracy tools of protecting rights provided by the european union are failing to apply to the homeless, whether they are citizens of the european union or not, and this is because they often - i fear - do not create electoral consensus. vice-president barnier rightly points out that this is a matter for the member states. however, it is an increasingly european, cross-border and visible phenomenon. so we ask ourselves: what is the timetable for the strategy that has been repeatedly requested of the commission? how much can be allocated, in addition to progress, from the resources of the european funds, including the structural funds and the social cohesion funds. we also ask ourselves: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the free movement of homeless people is guaranteed or that it is possible for a state to restrict it, precisely because these citizens - and i am referring to european citizens - may not have a permanent residence. finally, is the minimum level of service guaranteed? some member states have refused to grant it to nationals of other member states, on the basis of european rules. are we sure this is legally permissible? in conclusion, the fao estimates that each european citizen wastes 179 kilograms of food each year. what european strategy should be adopted to combat this waste? i believe that this is an economic and social question, but above all it is a question of the identity of our european union itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i congratulate mr masip hidalgo on his work, which recognises the centrality of the defence of intellectual property rights as an indispensable tool for the economic growth of the european union through the creation of jobs and the safeguarding of cultural diversity. infringements of intellectual property rights are indeed a huge drain on community revenue and there is an urgent need to strengthen the fight against illegal acts through the cooperation of national authorities, the institutions of the european union and experts in the field. the adoption of this measure responds to this need and allows us to lay the foundations for the creation of a single market in intellectual property rights. the observatory will be part of the european office for the internal market and will have the necessary human, financial and logistical resources to carry out its mandate effectively. we are at the beginning of a long process during which careful and meticulous monitoring and evaluation of the observatory's activities will have to be carried out. infringement of intellectual property rights takes place at several levels, with varying degrees of protection and recognition by the member states. it will be essential to continue to draw on the expertise of national authorities and the many specific representative associations. this will strengthen the technical expertise of the observatory, while ensuring that all intellectual property rights are identified at community level without any hierarchy in the level of protection and recognition.
in writing. the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy, established in 2009, has become a centre of expertise for the collection, monitoring and reporting of information on infringements of intellectual property rights and a cooperation platform for stakeholders to exchange ideas on best practice with the aim of developing strategies for the protection of intellectual property rights. i welcome the commission's proposal to transfer the tasks of the observatory to the office for harmonization in the internal market in order to further develop the operational activities and improve the fulfilment of the newly extended tasks. in the context of the exponential increase in counterfeiting and piracy, which are reducing the incentive for innovation in european companies and are contributing to a shrinking number of jobs, i believe that a coordinated policy in this area should be strengthened. i would also point out that for certain categories of products (medicines, toys, household appliances, etc.) counterfeiting poses a risk to human health and causes a considerable reduction in the protection of european consumers. i stress the importance of ensuring that the information collected and disseminated by the office for harmonization meets the criteria of completeness and quality of data and that its activities are guided by sound principles of transparency.
member of the commission. - mr president, we have just spoken of intellectual property, which is of interest to so many companies, i mentioned a million trademarks proposed and protected in alicante, and we are still here in concrete europe with concrete progress to be made on the basis of the commission's proposals, thanks to you and the council of ministers. i wanted to emphasize this concrete europe and, in particular, as regards the internal market and the economy, the ambition i expressed to you at the beginning of my mandate two years ago, that we should reconcile together small and mediumsized enterprises on the one hand and consumers on the other with this large market, whereas, until now, these small and mediumsized enterprises have felt that the large single market was not for them but simply for the big and the big ones. mr lechner, i thank you and your colleagues because this is a subject of interest to small and mediumsized enterprises: by facilitating access to information for citizens, small businesses and public authorities, this interconnection will enable every citizen of the union to use the network of business registers, in his own language, from a central access point, to obtain immediately information on any european company, wherever it is, and in particular on its crossborder operations. until now, the lack of a network linking national trade registers made it very difficult to access this information on businesses in other member states, with the consequent high administrative and financial burden for crossborder businesses. we have estimated, ladies and gentlemen, that this additional cost is about 70 million euros a year. the lack of a genuine interconnection between registers has also produced less transparency for other businesses, consumers and public authorities. this is a step which will also lead to greater transparency; at the same time, we will strengthen legal certainty by making it possible to close some 17 000 branches of foreign origin, which are in reality 'fictitious' since the disappearance of their parent company. our initiative had two objectives: better access to company information and greater legal certainty for branches and cross-border operations. our proposal received very strong support during the public consultation, from the private sector but also from the council, the european parliament, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee. let me, mr president, thank very sincerely your rapporteur, kurt lechner, for his work, the fictitious rapporteurs - evelyn regner and alexandra thein - and the hungarian, polish and danish presidencies, who have supported this dossier. i would also like to congratulate and thank all the parties, you and the council, for the compromise they have shown in order to complete the adoption work quickly. you have placed a lot of expectations on the commission. it will play a central role in the future system. i hope we will live up to our responsibilities, although, i remind you, questions of financial resources inevitably arise. i have good reason to believe, however, that they will be resolved soon. mr lechner, this interconnection of business registers for citizens and for businesses, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, is - as you said - a good project and i wanted to thank you for the progress we are going to make together in the proper functioning of the single market.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner barnier, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr lechner on the excellent work he has done, which has enabled us to give the green light to a measure which is specifically designed to meet the needs of businesses, especially small businesses, and which contributes to the process of completing the internal market. the interconnection of national business registers is a key aid for companies wishing to open a branch in another member state or simply to do business with companies in other states. in addition to increasing consumer and user confidence in cross-border transactions, interconnection will result in potential savings on annual business expenditure of eur 69 billion. in addition, the measure increases legal certainty by addressing one of the problems that businesses most encounter in their crossborder activities. although the interconnection is purely technical in nature and does not therefore extend to the legal effects of the use of registers, the transparency and reliability of the information it can provide and guarantee are the basis for the exercise and defence of rights by consumers and users. finally, i would remind you that one of the peculiarities of the measure is that it is impossible to give exhaustive answers to questions of a technical nature. in other words, problems and solutions will emerge and need to be explored as the network is built. the interconnection process can therefore only succeed if there is, as i hope, close cooperation between the commission and the member states.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr lechner on his excellent work and to stress the three reasons which satisfy me most about the debate we are having, in relation to what the commissioner said about the interconnection of central and commercial registers of companies. this directive will essentially ensure three steps forward: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant aid to firms in the form of grants for the construction of new buildings. it essentially ensures the completion of the single market and does so by increasing the potential of european enterprises. the directive also saves businesses €69 billion in annual expenditure by european companies belonging to this category, which only increases their competitiveness and is a very important response that europe is giving in times of crisis like this. it is therefore a directive which strengthens competitiveness in a spirit of transparency and legality.
madam president, commissioner, what we are doing is another important step forward because the single payment area in the euro area, with this fateful date of 1 february 2014, is the completion of a journey that started with the common market and had an important stage in the single currency. it is a considerable economic advantage - the commissioner has mentioned it and i thank him for it - which will save one billion euros a year compared to current costs and is also a very big advantage for the consumer. the single area of payments in euro is therefore a positive step forward in the development of the community method, which is as important to this parliament as it is to my country.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next partsession. it also depends on liberalisation measures against the barriers and privileges that also stifle the digital single market. among these is the need for a new discipline on copyright, in particular collective rights management, since copyright represents 7% of our europe's gdp. the reform is urgent, commissioner, and we have been waiting for it for a long time. it has been announced several times with deadlines and dates that have never been met, as you have indirectly admitted. we have been waiting for this directive for over two years, just as we are waiting for the ipred directive 48 and the ipred directive 29 to be dealt with with a system of exceptions in line with the times. it was hoped that this legislature would be the constituent one of the european parliament. but today our debate is polluted by ideologies that artificially oppose artists' rights to free access to the web, with a harmful and sterile opposition that paralyzes. this must be solved by innovative legal and technological ideas for a new copyright, which starts first and foremost with management. although there are interesting proposals and experiences, the idea is not moving forward. commissioner, you have had a great deal of success with patents, and i commend you on that because i respect you. but on this subject, it is late. why would you do that? both you and the rapporteur, mr gallo, have spoken of difficulties which actually exist and which, as you have said, partly justify the delay. the problem is that the existing management companies and record companies represent vested interests defending their backyard, their field. that's the main obstacle. no to territoriality, no to reasonable exceptions, no to extended collective licensing, no to incentives towards new business models, no to better transparency, no to interoperability and format shifting. that's the whole point of being late. we need well-designed reforms that do not create oligopolies that distort the market, cultural industries and small companies and stifle europe's cultural diversity and richness. that is why we are hopeful that this long-awaited "springtime" will finally come.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you for each and every one of your questions and your interpellations, which i have of course noted and will take into account. they encourage me to conclude this consultation and preparation work now. however, i would like to repeat - i said to mrs gallo earlier in my first reply - that on a subject like this, taking into account the interests involved, of course, but also the legal complexity, the time we have used, which was longer than i would have liked, has been useful in building an intelligent and dynamic text. in her first question, mrs gallo raised the problem which you both raised in a similar way in your questions: how are we going to ensure, in this proposal, a balance between the protection of creators and cultural diversity, on the one hand, the access of the greatest number to this creation, and then of course the necessary modernisation of collective management? i would remind members that these collective management societies play an important role as intermediaries between creators and the public. for creators, it is not an obligation to go through these collective management companies and - i say this especially to mrs záborská - it is a voluntary choice to go through these companies. they play an important role and - as you say, mrs gallo, and so do some of the others - this is a difficult task at a time when companies are investing heavily in developing multi-territorial licensing offers. this responsibility, as well as the technical and financial obstacles in a still fragile and developing market, should not be underestimated. not all copyright societies, ladies and gentlemen, have the means at present to develop such licences and it is important that they are not left behind in the digital age. that is why i will be proposing measures which should make it possible to choose the best ways of developing multi-territorial licences within a clear legal framework which will protect the interests of their members. mrs castex and mrs lichtenberger stressed the need for improved governance. you have given examples which are indeed controversial and perhaps even, in some cases, abnormal. we need transparency, we need better governance. we will encourage and encourage all companies to continue their activities under better conditions, but i agree with you that the proposals we are going to make must improve this governance. mr berlinguer, i have explained the delay, i accept it, although i know you regret it, and i ask you for a few more weeks of patience to bring this proposal to fruition. you have kindly asked me, as mrs wikström has, to shorten this period. i will go as fast as i can, but you have also acknowledged, mr berlinguer, that this time has also been used, in the great intellectual property project, to advance other important points. you yourself mentioned the patent. i could have added the management of orphan works or the subject we discussed earlier in this house, earlier this afternoon, namely the observatory on intellectual property offences. we are going to take this a step further with a proposal for a revision of the directive on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, which is being prepared. i would also remind you that i asked a man whom i respect, who was my colleague in the commission a few years ago, mr vitorino, to become the ombudsman on the sensitive issue of private copying. finally, my services are currently analysing the reactions of all interested parties to the green paper on the online distribution of audiovisual works. we will take stock of this question over the coming summer. mrs wikström mentioned, among other things, if i understood correctly, the future of small collecting societies, since not all copyright societies are of equal importance. let us not forget that the largest part of corporate revenues comes from the licences granted to radio, television, cable and record companies. all management companies will continue to grant such licences while being more efficient and transparent. most beneficiaries really appreciate access to their local companies in their local market, in their own language. we do not intend to withdraw this option, particularly as regards the language question. mrs wikström and mrs ţicău also raised the issue of directories which should be accessible on a multiterritorial basis. it's important for creators, for business users, for consumers and for cultural diversity in general. even if, as i said, not all these companies have the technical means to offer multi-territorial licences for the major online service providers, we will propose in this text solutions to make all directories available for these licences. mrs macovei referred in particular to the question of competition in the operation of collective management companies. yes, there will be, ladies and gentlemen, more transparency in the way companies operate and more opportunities for shareholders to make an informed choice. yes, because a common basis and a level playing field will be established for the operation of collective management societies in europe. after this text, which you will no doubt have the opportunity to improve, it will be easier for rightholders, for commercial users, to compare the levels of service offered by the different collective management societies. we will thus be able, as mr obermayer said, to use more effectively all the creative potential that exists in europe. mrs záborská referred to the point of acta. i know that's a concern. i have just reiterated in a previous debate what the commission intended to do with this text and i have confirmed the availability of my colleague karel de gucht to participate in all the debates scheduled here at the end of february and the beginning of march in a responsible, more calm way, to discuss objectively the issues related to this acta agreement. that is all i could say on that point. i am grateful to you for having asked me these questions. i have told you the spirit in which we are working on these two projects, which you will find in this proposal on collective management of copyright in the coming weeks.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the oral question to the commission on the reprogramming of the structural funds to combat youth unemployment more effectively and to support smes, by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000025/2012 - b7-0037/2012)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusions of the recent european council and the work being done in the committee on budgets of the european parliament - where the guidelines for the 2013 budget are being discussed - have clearly demonstrated the agreement of the european institutions on the priorities to be given to the political action of the european union, which converge on the need to promote growth also by fighting unemployment, especially youth unemployment. in this connection, i welcome the statement on the use of the eur 82 billion of the 2007-2013 programming for smes, which are now the real backbone of our economy. as the statistics provided by the commission itself have shown, 85% of the new jobs created between 2002 and 2010 were due to smes. i think it is clear that there is a need for a joint effort, in a spirit of synergy and cooperation between the european and national budgets, to focus and redirect the resources available to individual member states in favour of the priorities expressed, in particular towards those measures and programmes which can have a real impact on this problem and reverse the course of our young people. i therefore ask the commissioner to specify the actions, programmes and budget lines, in addition to those more clearly related to small and mediumsized enterprises and innovation, which he believes should be strengthened to reduce the level of youth unemployment.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the debate has shown that there is a very good knowledge in this house of the workings and effects of the structural funds. this is a very pleasant finding from the perspective of the commissioner responsible. on the other hand, the discussion also shows what is clear overall: that the structural funds are a very comprehensive and effective instrument, the most comprehensive, the most effective instrument in the european scene, to implement european concerns and objectives accordingly. ladies and gentlemen, consider the proposal by president barroso as a very strong wake-up call, which is necessary in view of the critical situation, particularly in the field of youth unemployment. of course, he was also, and is, as everyone else, perfectly aware of the rules of the game in the area of the structural funds. but it is simply a matter of showing that at the moment there is still some 80-82 billion euros not directly allocated to projects. it is therefore legitimate and more than appropriate to ask whether there are possibilities for tightening up, by looking at whether the money allocated not to projects but to regions, of course, can be used by relocating to the regions most suitable for the purpose of promoting small and mediumsized enterprises, in particular the creation of jobs for young people. let us not forget that the bulk of the operational programmes were discussed, agreed and adopted in 2005-06 against the backdrop of a completely different economic situation. so it is necessary and appropriate, in the light of the current situation, to ask ourselves: can i focus on this? the commission has therefore offered - and it is already being done - to the action teams on the ground in the eight countries with the highest youth unemployment to talk to the member states' authorities by the end of february, to see what can be done. we shall be submitting a first oral report on these discussions from the commission at the beginning of march. but they should remember that in the case of my colleague andor, very extensive preparatory work has been done, for example, in the field of 'young opportunities', aimed at proposing what can be done in the field of combating youth unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is fair to say that we cannot achieve immediate relief from the situation overnight. but the point is, and this is the appeal i would like to join, that it is absolutely time to act now! initiatives must be taken! i hope that everyone will be drawn to the same line as was reflected in the contributions to the debate today. i am convinced that in a few weeks' time we will be able to achieve the first tangible results, particularly in combating youth unemployment in europe.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 149)
in writing. the debate, initiated by the regi committee with the question on 'reprogramming the structural funds to improve the fight against youth unemployment and support smes', cleared the field of doubts. the aim of supporting small businesses and promoting youth employment is certainly to be welcomed, but it risks remaining an announcement if the commission does not clarify the actions and programmes it intends to put in place and does not identify the budget line to be used. the 82 billion on which the commission bases its proposal are resources allocated to the member states which have not yet been spent but which are already predominantly committed. the concern that these resources could be diverted from national and regional programmes at the commission's initiative was dispelled by the final speech of commissioner hahn, who, acknowledging the parliament's concerns, announced that the choice of reprogramming expenditure would be left to the states and that the funds would remain at the disposal of individual countries.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
madam president, i would like to draw the attention of this house and the citizens of europe to what has been happening in ukraine for months. since it was decided that the 2012 european football championship will be held in poland and ukraine, the authorities of the latter country, in order to quickly clean up their cities, have unleashed the wild hunt for stray dogs, poor animals that are killed by the thousands with poisons, sticks, guns, including mothers and puppies, even using mobile cremation ovens. this terrible news is spreading all over the world. on the internet, you can see some of the horrific scenes of violence reported and documented by reporters and local animal welfare groups. in view of the special relationship we have with this country, i ask the european institutions to intervene urgently with the ukrainian authorities to stop this barbaric and uncivilized massacre.
the debate is closed.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me first take this opportunity to congratulate mr mato adrover on his election as chair of the committee. unfortunately my colleague, the minister for food, agriculture and fisheries, ms mette gjerskov, was not able to be here today. however it is a pleasure for me to take part in this important debate on fisheries. i would like to address the different issues raised one by one. on the horse mackerel multi-annual plan, the council shares the view expressed previously by ms fraga and today by mr gallagher on behalf of the committee on fisheries that the establishment of long-term management plans is key to conservation. that is why the council has adopted 10 such plans since 2003 covering many, if not most, of the major stocks in the union waters. i am pleased to inform you that the committee of permanent representatives in the council made considerable progress last november on a way forward on the proposed multiannual plan for the stock of western horse mackerel. i understand that ms fraga, mr gallagher and the shadow rapporteurs were informed of the outcome in early december. against this background the council will now be in a position to examine in full parliament’s positions in first reading, and to that end work is beginning this week. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the honourable members for their positive and pragmatic approach and i hope that results can be achieved. i turn now to the proposed plan for the anchovy stock in the bay of biscay, which was also raised by the honourable members. the council position is that this plan is not in line with the treaty. the council, at the level of the committee of permanent representatives, therefore asked the commission in the autumn of 2010 to withdraw the proposal. the council has not discussed the plan since then. the council agrees that long-term management plans are one of the key elements of the reform of the common fisheries policy. that is why it has made such an effort to unblock the situation for the plan for western horse mackerel. the council is fully committed to cooperating with parliament and the commission to agree on a way forward. we are ready to work with you on this plan and on other long-term and management plans which are at the centre of conservation and of the reform of the common fishery policy. i now turn to the issue of total allowable catch and quota regulation and begin by thanking mr mato adrover for his question on the adoption of the 2012 fishing opportunities. i would like to start by restating that the council continues its commitment to adopt measures that are fully in line with the relevant legal provisions. i strongly believe that this commitment is also reflected in the adoption of fishing opportunities for 2012. the commission presented two proposals for adoption of measures on the fixing and allocation of fishing opportunities for 2012, one on the internal aspect and the other on the external aspect. the commission based its proposal on article 43(3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, under which the council shall adopt measures on a proposal from the commission on the fixing and allocation of fishing opportunities. the council consistently agreed with the commission’s choice of legal basis for the following reasons. the council considers that article 43(3) represents a self-standing specific legal basis that applies to clearly identified measures to be adopted under the common fisheries policy. furthermore, article 43(3) of the treaty speaks of measures which indicate that the authors of the treaty intended to give the council powers to adopt all measures that are inextricably linked to the fixing and allocation of fishing opportunities. they can only cover measures which have a direct bearing on the quantitative fishing entitlements. finally, i would like to conclude by saying that, since the adoption of the lisbon treaty, the objectives for the common fisheries policies, including those concerning multiannual plans, must be adopted in the ordinary legislative procedure with agreement between parliament and the council. the council is committed to respecting that. thank you for your attention. i look forward to a very good debate here in parliament today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to welcome the presence of the council here: it is very important for everybody, minister, to have you in this debate. so, honourable members, i very much welcome the opportunity to discuss with you some very important issues. the two first issues concern the new framework we have under the lisbon treaty, and i would like to repeat that the commission is here to cooperate with everybody during this transitional period in order to find practical solutions. i reiterate that it is not the commission’s aim, mr mato adrover, to go against this house. we are trying to cooperate with everybody, and i think that citizens watching us in the context of the crisis would like to see all the eu institutions cooperating in the best way we can. regarding the horse mackerel plan and the long-term management plans in general, i agree with you, mr gallagher, and with ms rodust and the presidency of course, that this is an issue of great importance in relation to the sustainability of stocks: it really is a matter of urgency. i agree with you also, mr gallagher, because, since this plan was proposed in 2009, we have based all quota proposals on the plan, and today this stock is actually fished fairly sustainably. this, therefore, is the way to go, and we have to be sure that we can secure this approach. the problem in relation to these long-term management plans is – to cut a long story short – between parliament and the council. we need to agree on the respective competences of the two institutions, and this is something we have to do in cooperation, as best we can. so, the council, minister, has to do whatever it can to take the right decisions in order to find a solution here, and we need to compromise. we will facilitate this in any way we can. i would call on you, minister, to take the decision in the council as quickly as possible to go for a second reading. the only way to reach a compromise here is to go for the second reading in parliament and the commission. i promise here that we will do everything we can to facilitate the procedure but we need an urgent decision from you, the council, in order to proceed. regarding the application of article 43 of the treaty, i agree with everybody that the procedure for fishing opportunities is an exception to the ordinary legislative procedure and therefore that it should be interpreted very strictly, and this is exactly what we are doing. i would like to remind you that, since 2010, the commission has consistently limited its proposals to fishing opportunities and conditions functionally linked to them. let me be clear here: fishing opportunities are quantified fishing rights. the treaty refers to ‘fishing opportunities’. as a matter of principle, a quantified fishing right cannot exist in a void, so – while the treaty does not refer to tacs and quotas – a tac area or an allowed fishing season, for example, is necessary for fishing opportunities to work. let all of us be reasonable here. we are talking about fishing opportunities and we have to respect the treaties, so these conditions are functionally linked to fishing opportunities as they have a direct bearing on them. this, then, is our position: we have to cooperate here and we have to find the best way that all three institutions can live together. i do not think we face a power game here, and it is not a matter of the commission trying to prevent parliament from exercising its new powers. in relation to the last item raised by other members of the house – mr ferreira, mr gróbarczyk and ms patrão neves – namely, the contribution of the common fisheries policy to the production of public goods, i would like to highlight the specific measures provided for under the reform to improve the situation of the fisheries sector and, in particular, of small-scale fisheries and coastal communities. while i do not have time to discuss the whole idea of the common fisheries policy, i would like to focus on this issue of social sustainability. healthy stocks support larger catches of bigger fish. we have to realise that the only way to have a healthy fisheries sector is to have healthy stocks. there is no other way. we cannot invent any other way. we can give a lot of subsidies, a lot of money – taxpayers’ money – but if we do not have healthy stocks, then there is no way to have a healthy sector. this is something we all need to understand because healthy stocks can improve profitability and the wages and employment of fishermen, and also of people working in processing; and that is the best way of encouraging young people – whom mr gróbarczyk mentioned specifically – to come into the sector. if young people see that there is an income to be earned there, then they will come. of course we can do more: i am not shirking my responsibilities, or the commission’s responsibilities, and i am trying to do more in the framework of my reform proposals. our funding has an important role to play here. i would underline the fact that we are paying special attention to small-scale fisheries. why? because the small-scale sector represents close to 80% of our fishing vessels and around 40% of onboard employment. we are taking special care here, as you can see in our proposal on small-scale vessels. we have recognised the importance of this sector and have made an effort to propose dedicated measures for these fleets. what are these measures? business and innovation advisory services and higher aid intensity – and i would ask you not to overlook the latter, which includes a wide range of measures aimed at increasing income by supporting selectivity, marketing, product quality and innovation. we also want to support producer organisations and improvements in working conditions, safety, hygiene and training. we have special measures for all of this in our funding. i also made sure that the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) has increased funding for the sustainable development of coastal areas. in our impact assessment we came to the conclusion that the emff could result in around 12 500 additional full-time jobs in the sector. honourable members, you rightly call for attractive jobs. i can understand the situation. i really can understand the situation of fishermen and their families and of coastal communities in the middle of the economic crisis, so i am determined to deliver on your demand, and i am convinced that together we can get it right. your proposals are very welcome and i will try to my best to adopt all possible measures to give our small-scale fisheries and our coastal communities a future.
i would like to ask the commissioner and the minister to make a statement on behalf of the s&d group. commissioner, for a year and a half i urged you to act with courage because that would have won the support of parliament. it seems to me that the prevailing view is that parliament is a sort of weight, a hindrance to procedures, and that the commission's attitude is often rather flat on the council's positions, which refuses to have a real debate with parliament. the reform of the cfp is under discussion today; the commission's proposal is already being discussed by the ministers: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we must restore the principle that the treaty of lisbon has given parliament and i think that we must make a cultural leap in our relations rather than work in circles, trying to understand whether this or that procedure has taken the right path. this is a different problem: i think that there is still no awareness in the fisheries sector of the role that parliament can play. we shall be voting tomorrow or the day after tomorrow on the report presented this morning, in a very high fashion, by my colleague mr patrão neves. if it receives a favourable vote in parliament, this resolution will already be a very serious indication of what the reform will entail. i am not at all convinced of the merits of the proposals in relation to the socioeconomic aspect of the proposed reform: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that we need to take a different cultural step here too. the list of questions you have put is very small, because it does not describe a scenario in which fishing is replaced by another activity, in which aquaculture or tourism, for example, become central. i think that these measures are simply relegated to the aspect of transferable rights, which, commissioner, will not guarantee any socioeconomic application of the reduction of fishing effort because ...
mr president, the question is addressed in particular to commissioner barnier and concerns recital 62 of the services directive. it is not clear and comprehensive what is meant by 'lack of natural resources or technical capacity'. the directive should not prevent member states from limiting the number of authorisations for reasons other than a lack of natural resources or technical capacity. as in the case of the streetcar sector, they do not use the concession area exclusively because it is fully available to everyone at the end of working hours and is sometimes reassigned to other activities. in italy, municipalities can already extend both the number of concessions and the number of market areas. in this case, therefore, there should be no automatic correspondence between the concept of public land and the criterion of scarcity of natural resources, since the parking takes place only in a portion of the area and for a limited daily time. what is your opinion on this, commissioner?
member of the commission. - mrs angelilli asks a question about exclusion from social services and how it can be interpreted. some social services were excluded from the directive, but not all. i would also remind you that an amendment on the exclusion of all these services was rejected by parliament. i do not think that my services have reported any problems to me with the application of the directive to social services. the safeguards provided for in the directive recognize and take account of the specific nature of certain services such as those you have mentioned. the directive does not deal with the financing of these services. the conditions laid down by the member states to ensure that these services effectively fulfil their social function are not covered. so, mrs angelilli, the directive does not prevent member states from maintaining their authorization schemes - for example, to open a nursery - which are justified by social policy objectives. it can be the protection of minors, it can be the protection of vulnerable people. i think it is reasonable to say that implementation does not create problems for social services such as, if i understand correctly, those you have mentioned.
commissioner, this is not about social services, but about the travelling trade sector. the question was specific to that subject. if you prefer, i can put a question directly because i think you have misunderstood my question.
member of the commission. - madam president, i do not want to deprive my colleague tajani of his speech, but it so happens that i am directly responsible for the implementation of this directive, which is urgently needed at the moment. i want to tell you, madam president, and all your colleagues, that i take personal care to go to each member state to see how things are going. a few days ago, on thursday, i concluded in madrid the 27th of the workshops i had held in each of the capitals - as i had promised to do before parliament - with all the national civil servants responsible for the services directive, but also for the professional qualifications directive and the public procurement directive. as i speak to you, after this round of work with all the officials responsible for these texts, i can say that all the member states, with the exception of greece, have now taken all the transposition measures. germany and austria, whose federal structure you are familiar with, have had a few particular problems - because of this federal structure - with transposition, since it had to be done at regional level. it was done recently. that is why the two actions which i had brought before the court of justice can now be withdrawn, since germany and austria have fulfilled their obligations. the referral to greece remains relevant as regards the quality of the transposition measures. i have undertaken, as you specifically asked in the vote on the services directive, to report on the application of the key provisions of the directive. in addition to what was already presented last monday on mutual evaluation between member states and with the commission, we will present in the second quarter of this year, in 2012, a report on the application of all the key provisions of the directive, including the important point on the provision of crossborder services. we will also draw the first lessons, in our role as guardians of the treaties, from the shortcomings or failures in the practical and quality implementation of this directive. in my view, ladies and gentlemen, 2012 must be the year of the full application of the services directive as it exists in all its forms and in all its potential. this is the subject of the full and precise evaluation and information report that we will present before the end of this year, beyond what i can say today and what i am doing in each member state.
member of the commission. − ms turunen, i gave an answer to ms steinruck a few minutes ago and i would like to repeat that now. we have a proposed date for college debate and adoption which will be in march 2012. there are various reasons for the delay, not least because we had to accelerate some other initiatives like the youth opportunities, which i am sure you also consider very important. the youth opportunities were not originally on the agenda, but we had to respond to the urgency of youth unemployment, which is why we scheduled that for last december. there is also very serious work under way: serious coordination between our services on the question of the posting of workers. as you also suggested, this is a very complex matter, and i am very grateful for the contribution of many members of the european parliament to this discussion. you brought to my attention very difficult cases, not only those where the european court of justice made decisions which many of you saw as controversial, but also the more recent flamanville case. our intention is to eliminate the likelihood of a recurrence of such cases. we want posted workers to work in a safe, well-regulated environment with greater awareness of the circumstances and their own rights, and much better administrative cooperation between the member states. this is covered in the documents we have been drawing up since last summer when we had the stakeholder conference last june. the structure, as i have already explained to ms steinruck, is an enforcement directive, in order to contribute to the single market. as you probably know, this falls under the scope of the single market act, as it concerns the single labour market, and also constitutes regulation to follow up on fundamental social rights with a view to having better guarantees in this area.
member of the commission. − the answer is, yes.
member of the commission. - president malcolm harbour has just drawn attention to a very important point, and that is the feeling that sometimes we have here in strasbourg, in brussels and in the member states that there are two wheels turning in parallel: the legislative wheel that we turn together - the commission, parliament, council - and the national wheels. what i find, mr harbour, when i go out into the field, with these workshops that i have just done, is that we have to hang the two wheels so that they do not turn in parallel, but that they are hanging. they're hanging when there's a good transposition. that's pretty much the case when there's quality implementation. this is not yet the case in all member states. this is especially the case when those for whom we are drafting these texts together - parliament, council, commission - that is to say, businesses, and in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, or citizens, know what we are doing for them, and they do not. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i attach such importance to all these tools of proximity. almost two years ago, when you were so kind as to invite the commission and question me at the hearing, i told you that our ambition during these five years would be - and this is very important - to reconcile small and mediumsized enterprises and consumer citizens with the single market. there is a feeling that this single market is not for them, that it is for the big guys, not for small businesses and consumers. we have to change that. the services directive is one of the tools for this, with a number of structures, which i am now checking for. the imi system, which will be discussed later and which can also be used for vocational qualifications, is the direct interactive dialogue between local and regional authorities via the internet. six thousand administrations are now active in this system. the solvit system, which is now working properly in just about every member state to avoid discouragement or prosecution, to allow for mediation. then, as president harbour has said, there are the very important one-stop shops which now exist in all the member states. i think i can say that there is only one country, romania, where the one-stop shop is not yet operational. i think it is a very important tool, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. of course, these counters must have essential functionalities, online formalities, cross-border. we're still a long way from the count. these counters exist but they do not yet have the full potential that businesses need. that is why in 2012 - the year i said earlier that the services directive will be fully implemented - i will focus, mr president, on the proper functioning of modern, digital and good information around these one-stop shops. that is why, at the initiative of parliament, we are organising the week for new growth from 15 to 22 october, at the same time as president tajani is organising the week of small and medium-sized enterprises. we will organize in all the member states, with the european parliament, the national parliaments, the chambers of commerce, the trade unions, all the organizations that wish to do so, a week on the single market act, on the tools i have just mentioned, a week of complete human information on the single market, not technocratic or bureaucratic information. i would like to see a face on the single market, on men and women who have had successes and who have had failures and see how we can deal with those failures. that will be the subject, mr president, of the week of october next, which we will be organizing together, with a focus on one-stop shops.
member of the commission. - mr harbour, what we are going to do will never be enough if we want to reach the 22 million european companies of which - as you know - 21 million are small and mediumsized enterprises which are the subject of the commitments and work of my colleague mr tajani. he might even give his opinion on the matter. i think we should get the information down. we have imagined this single market week for new growth and the small and medium-sized enterprises week in october; i'm checking to see if the one-stop shops are working. we cannot do everything from brussels. we need the member states to play their part. we also need the cooperation of the chambers of commerce, for example. you mentioned the brochure we published. we will probably publish more and, either via the internet or directly, i will seek the support of, for example, chambers of commerce that have a direct link with small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can disseminate this information to their members, to the people on the ground who are creating jobs and growth - something we can hardly do directly from brussels, we need intermediaries and partners for this. i would therefore like to see the opportunity, during this year of 2012, before the single market week in october, to get this basic information about the services directive and other activities we are carrying out, for example on accounting standards or public procurement, which are designed to encourage the involvement of small and mediumsized enterprises, to every european company.
member of the commission. - i confirm to mr van de camp that we will, in the middle of this year, present, at the request of the european parliament, a full report on the implementation - i hope of a high quality - of the services directive in all the member states. that is all for the services directive, which is the subject of this morning's question time. more generally, we will also take stock of a subject which you, like president harbour, are familiar with and which you support: the single market act. this year we will take stock of the first wave of the 12 proposals, of their implementation: patents, social business, venture capital, public procurement and so many other things. then, later this year, we will prepare a second wave of 12 new proposals to facilitate growth. these are the two commitments i make and, in the spirit of what i said to mr harbour and which i confirm to you, we will try, with our partners - those who have the most concrete, the closest and the easiest contact with businesses - to find ways, with mr tajani in particular, for small and mediumsized enterprises, to get information about what we are doing as close as possible to the ground. but we cannot do it alone from brussels. you need to have relay or partners. i am thinking in particular of the chambers of commerce and industry.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to give some information on the network dedicated to the information of small and mediumsized enterprises, the enterprise europe network. with this network we are present in 51 countries, with some 600 branches and over 3,000 professionals. i would say that the enterprise europe network is the most important european, if not worldwide, support network for small and mediumsized enterprises. we are present in all 27 member states and in 8 third countries participating in the competitiveness and innovation programme. i am referring to croatia, israel and turkey. some additional information on advice and information, including on the internal market. some 300,000 businesses have benefited directly from this type of service, while another 600,000 have participated in events organised with the same objective; 225,000 benefited from specialist advice on issues such as access to credit, intellectual property, european and international business development and innovation through the adoption of new working methods and new technologies. each year, the network enables some 2,500 formal transnational cooperation agreements between businesses to be concluded, which have a positive impact on businesses in terms of maintaining turnover, employment and investment levels. to date we have also received 10,000 contributions from businesses, who have expressed their views on the policies and legislative initiatives of the programmes developed at european level. i believe that this is an effective network, although we naturally understand the need to implement it and therefore to strengthen its action, so much so that the continuation of the enterprise europe network is also ensured under the cosme programme for the period 2014-2020. we therefore ask the house, in the context of the debate on the financial perspective, to support our proposal, because i believe it goes in the direction which was emphasized in your question and in mr harbour's earlier speech.
member of the commission. - mr aylward, quite frankly, it is difficult for me to give a precise answer to the point you raise, since it does not depend on any of the three of us directly but rather falls within the responsibilities of our colleague viviane reding. so i'm going to ask him to bring you an answer. i can, however, raise a point which still affects many small businesses and the irregularities or infringements to which they are subject, for example, in relation to counterfeiting. we spoke yesterday about the creation - which you supported - of the observatory on intellectual property infringements; it's a complementary subject to the one you were talking about. we have made progress in this respect because, with the help of the alicante trademark office, we are now setting up and expanding this observatory which will study piracy, of course, but especially counterfeiting, so that we can know them well and take the right measures. it is not always a question of measures to suppress counterfeiting, but often of explanations and training to combat counterfeiting, which is the problem of a very large number of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. it has been estimated that counterfeiting is responsible for the loss of almost 200,000 jobs in europe. on the specific point you have raised, we will ask our colleague viviane reding to give you a written reply in the next few days.
member of the commission. - i want to confirm the positive answer we can give to this question. our colleague viviane reding is preparing a european commission communication on this very point which will cover all the considerations and elements of fraudulent advertising to which not only businesses but also sometimes consumers are subject. so mrs. reding is preparing a paper on the subject.
member of the commission. - mrs gebhardt, i know personally how vigilant and attentive you are to the question of services of general economic interest. i would add, beyond the social services of general interest, that this concern is shared by mine, since we share the same political objective, in the name of this competitive social market economy which must be the basis of european action or which should become it again, to ensure the quality, accessibility and sustainability of public services in europe and to adapt existing legislation as much as possible to the realities of the 21st century. we have made a major commitment and we are keeping that commitment through the commission's cross-cutting action on public services, to better articulate the realities and economic freedom on the one hand, and the social reality on the other. i am thinking of fundamental social rights in the internal market. maybe there's a discussion and a debate between us. president barroso has always been careful to speak of a quality framework, i think. this concerns the next transversal text which our colleague mr andor will present on the posting of workers. this also applies to the text presented by our colleague almunia, and to which i contributed, on state aid, and in particular by mrs gebhardt, a text which, in this 'almunia-barnier package', clarifies matters and provides, for example, for a total exemption from the notification requirement under the control of state aid for public financing of health care and essential social services, when they fall under european law. this is the second package in this quality framework. the third is the one i presented on the directives on public procurement and concessions, which are very specific in their content and i have taken care of everything concerning tenders, public contracts for social services with higher thresholds and a lighter procedural regime. we do not think that a general legislative framework is needed beyond the transversal texts i have just mentioned or which are coming, and vertical or sectoral texts which, when we look at the list of services, cover practically all services. i am thinking of postal directives, a text for which i am responsible and whose implementation i monitor very closely, now with the users. it seems to us that these transversal texts, with the improvements i have just mentioned, which can be further consolidated by parliamentary work, and the sectoral texts constitute the quality framework that president barroso has committed himself to establishing or consolidating before your assembly.
member of the commission. - we will continue the debate beyond today's meeting and i am sure you will have the opportunity to raise this question and this question again before the president of the commission. we are familiar with the treaty, of course. the commission, mrs gebhardt, has the primary task of being the guardian and implementing the treaty in all its dimensions, even though there are article 14 and other articles which can be discussed. what i care about is people who are worried, who are fragile, who are seeing the consequences of the crisis, that the basic services to which they are entitled are preserved. that's what i'm interested in. the debate is indeed about a framework directive or a more general legal text. at the moment i am speaking to you, in terms of people's concerns and concerns, particularly in relation to social services and health services, it seems to us that the transversal directives or texts i have mentioned, as well as the vertical sectoral texts, which are also at stake and which we must implement, or improve where necessary, and in any case produce correctly, all these texts provide all the protection that citizens need in practical terms. so we're going to continue the debate about whether we need to go further, but what matters to me is that these services are guaranteed, that people are protected, especially the most isolated and vulnerable people.
mr president, i would like to ask commissioner tajani a question. i would like to return, commissioner, to a subject which we discussed a few months ago in the same question time, namely the process of transposition and implementation of the directive on late payment. at the time you replied that you had sent letters to all the member states and were awaiting their replies. my own questions are these: where are we? did you get any answers? do you have data on individual countries and, more importantly, can you tell which countries are doing well and which are still taking time?
member of the commission. − as i said, on this particular question the original directive laid out the foundations which we are not going to change; that would certainly cause greater ambiguity about posting practices, rather than providing clarification it is very important that regulations in the host countries include a core group of provisions on the posting of workers that apply to workers posted from another country who remain employees of a company that operates in a different member state. this also has to be taken into account. this is not an easy question, but we have to be attentive to two sides of the issue: posted workers are employees from member state a, but they act and work in member state b. we have to choose carefully what applies to the regulation of employment in the light of this dual nature of posted workers.
member of the commission. - madam president, this is a very important subject which i raised yesterday in our debate in this house on the internal market. this is a subject which our colleague karel de gucht is following up. what i can say about this acta text which is being debated is that we must be frankly objective and leave aside passion, arguments or polemics. the commission, in supporting this text, is convinced, on the basis of a legal analysis, that it is in line with the community acquis, that it is in line with the charter of fundamental rights, that it is compatible with everything else we are doing on electronic commerce. we therefore want this subject to be discussed, which is normal and democratic, but without any unnecessary polemics or fears for consumers or citizens. i would also like to remind you that you have several opportunities to debate this question at the end of february or the beginning of march, and in particular i believe that a large hearing has been scheduled for the beginning of march. our colleague karel de gucht, who is following this question on behalf of the european commission, has indicated that he is fully prepared to answer your questions and to take part in the debate before the european parliament.
member of the commission. − i understand and i think it is legitimate that there is a debate, since there are concerns on the part of consumers, citizens and internet users. we are all responsible for the implementation of international agreements on intellectual property, which ensure a level playing field and equal treatment in the protection of intellectual property, which we know, madam president, is at the heart of growth. i think there is a fairly unanimous opinion on these issues, even if there are differences of approach on the modalities. creativity, inventiveness, art, innovation must be properly protected, rewarded. at the same time, this intellectual property - and i said it myself yesterday - must be up to date, at least in europe and on the internet. we have of course heard president schulz express this concern and i can confirm that, on the basis of the legal analysis and the work we have done, we believe that this text is in line with the acquis communautaire and respects the fundamental rights of citizens. once again, our colleague mr karel de gucht will be able to continue this debate and dialogue and give you all the answers that will reassure you and those who are legitimately concerned in your constituencies.
mr president, i too would like to return to the results of the implementation of the services directive in the countries of the union - a topic which is of particular relevance, not so much because we are two years away from the commission's report on its implementation, but because the directive has caused a lot of problems in many countries. in particular, the most important issue is the application of the derogations from the authorisation system provided for in the case where the authorisation system is not discriminatory or is justified by reasons of public interest and complies with the proportionality criterion. the application or, rather, the rigid interpretation of the derogating provisions by the commission not only appears to be contrary to the rules on the protection of trust and legal certainty but, combined with the rules on concessions and contracts even in the latest version proposed by the commission, which excludes real concessions from its provisions, highlights a regulatory vacuum at community level, which has thrown into chaos very important sectors such as, for example, that of bathers in italy, that of tulip producers in the netherlands or operators of christmas markets in germany, to name just a few. does the commission not think that action is needed to regulate free competition effectively, to give small and mediumsized enterprises an advantage and to preserve the characteristics of certain sectors which are important to many member states?
member of the commission. - mrs mazzoni, i am well aware of this directive in its original form, since i was at the time a member of the european commission which proposed it. it is little wonder that, under the pressure of mrs gebhardt and many of you, mr schwab and others, it has been largely amended, improved and clarified, particularly in terms of the protection of social services, and rightly so. it was two years ago yesterday, on 10 february, that i returned to the european commission and became responsible for the internal market and services. as it is my role, as you are entitled to ask, i have an obligation to implement this directive as it is, as it was voted by parliament, covering a number of areas. you mentioned the tulip growers in the netherlands. in your own country, when i went to the italian parliament and met with committees, many members of parliament and senators spoke to me about a subject which is being debated in italy, namely the issue of beach concessions. we could find other cases. i didn't invent that directive. i'm not gonna say we're going out or in professions. it covers a number of professions or it does not. in fact, there are very few of them now - there are online games, there are security services - which are not covered by any european legislation, for the time being, because we are going to legislate on online games and move forward with the action plan in particular. everything else is covered in some way by a general directive or by sectoral directives. i must of course ensure that this text is properly applied, in compliance with the principle of proportionality, which you yourself have mentioned. i am available with my colleagues to examine the cases which present the most problems point by point - i said this about beach concessionaries in italy, i can say it about other professions. however, the professions covered by this directive must comply with it and must be opened up within the framework of the application of this text. that's all i can say. i confirm my readiness to work concretely, pragmatically, without ideology, but my role is to implement this directive as intelligently and as quickly as possible.
i thank you, commissioner, for your availability and openness to speak in this house on a subject which is very important not only for italy but also for many other countries. i think that it is necessary above all to ensure, in order to ensure that the principle of transparency of administrative procedures is fully respected, that the application of the services directive in certain areas is regulated by taking account of certain fundamental principles, guaranteed by other directives, which concern the maintenance of the principle of competence, professionalism and technical knowledge.
mr president, my question is to commissioner barnier and it also concerns the bathing areas. a few months ago, in this very house and in the context of this very procedure, the commissioner said that he was working with the italian government. i would therefore like to know where the agreement stands and whether any progress has been made in the interests of the 30 000 small and mediumsized enterprises representing the italian bathing sector in europe.
commissioner, how would the european commission behave if the italian government, using the legislation transposing the services directive, declared by interministerial decree pursuant to article 2, paragraph 3, of legislative decree no 59 of 2010, the exclusion of public evidence of tourism and spa enterprises? you should also know, commissioner, that two thirds of italian beaches are free of concessions: wouldn't it be more sensible and fair to limit public evidence to those beaches?
mr president, intellectual property rights are an instrument for safeguarding europe's cultural diversity and at the same time guarantee the union's economic growth and are a reservoir for creating new jobs. in view of the enormous economic damage that the non-respect of these rights causes to community revenue, it has become necessary in recent years for the member states and the european institutions to step up their efforts to combat such violations. i therefore believe that it is right that measures should be taken to inform consumers of the dangers of buying counterfeit goods and to make them more aware of the negative impact of piracy and counterfeiting on european industry. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, the increase in intellectual property infringements in recent years risks undermining the strategy on intellectual property rights in the single market launched by the commission in may 2011. in order to combat this phenomenon and safeguard the success of the policy of protecting intellectual property, it was proposed to entrust certain tasks relating to the management of the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy, set up in 2009, to the office for harmonisation in the internal market. this is to provide the observatory with human and financial resources to take action against infringements of intellectual property and to carry out awareness campaigns to raise consumer awareness of the risks of buying counterfeit products. the vote in favour of the report is therefore a very important moment in the fight against the trade in counterfeit goods and in defence of innovation, growth and competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises, and the employment and security of european citizens.
mr president, intellectual property may appear contradictory in its definition, but it has great moments of coherence. i voted in favour of this proposal because its purpose - namely to entrust the european union trade marks and designs office with certain tasks relating to the management of the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy - is necessary and indispensable in order to combat infringements of intellectual property rights. the main objectives are to raise public and private sector awareness of the impact of counterfeiting and piracy and to inform consumers of the dangers of buying counterfeit products. on the basis of the 33 compromise amendments, agreement was reached at first reading on 19 december. the amendments provide that the title of the regulation and the name of the office shall not be changed in the sense of the european observatory. more important and fundamental is the participation of civil society in the meetings. all this will make a moment of synthesis like the one we are about to celebrate with today's vote even more democratic and participatory.
mr president, i voted in favour of the text voted this morning in an attempt to revive the functions of the office for counterfeiting and piracy. the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy has so far failed to produce significant results and to carry out its mandate effectively because of insufficient human, financial and instrumental resources. my vote is therefore for the observatory to be re-launched, and since it is part of the office for harmonization in the internal market, it could make use of the office's financial resources. i conclude by saying that, for the observatory to really take off, the office will have to be equipped with the appropriate resources and professional knowledge and the necessary technical expertise, including that of the national authorities of the member states competent in the field of intellectual property, to enable it to exercise effectively the new powers linked to the operation of the observatory and to carry out these functions with the same effort and respect for each intellectual property right recognised at community level, without any hierarchy in the protection of intellectual property rights.
mr president, mr lechner's report is part of that framework of action to improve services for citizens and businesses within the european union. the interconnection of central and commercial registers is an excellent tool for making communications and information more accessible and, above all, faster for citizens and businesses. i therefore voted in favour, mr president.
mr president, knowledge of the facts and events in the life of companies through publicity systems regulated by law is an essential element in ensuring the efficient operation of markets in accordance with the law. to this end, rules exist under very different national regimes, which ensure the management of numerous public registers of an economic and administrative nature. in my country, italy, the most important is the business register, in which all companies operating in italian territory are required to be registered. my vote this morning is in favour of the interconnection of business registers, as provided for in the text under discussion in the house. this proposal for a directive is an important measure to promote further integration of the economic area within the european union and to strengthen legal certainty for businesses and citizens. it also saves - and i stress this - a lot of money for our companies, especially those operating in different countries of the union. in a time of crisis like this, that's not a small thing!
in writing. the report concerns the conferral of new powers on the european office for harmonisation in the internal market with regard to the enforcement of intellectual property rights. the commission is therefore not setting up a new body, but strengthening an existing one to meet the challenges posed by a growing problem such as the trade in counterfeit and pirated goods. the problem is that every year it causes a loss of competitiveness for our companies, it puts the safety and health of millions and millions of european consumers at risk, it takes a chunk out of the coffers of the states and erodes parts of the european labour market. moreover, this increasingly flourishing and difficult-to-control activity fuels organized crime. it is therefore good that efforts are being made to combat this growing phenomenon by all possible means, including the creation of a forum for coordination between the competent national authorities for the exchange of good practice and the interchange of information and common strategies to deal with the problem in a cooperative manner, without, however, compromising the prerogatives of the individual national authorities. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr hidalgo's report. the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy is a centre of expertise for the collection, monitoring and communication of data on infringements of intellectual property rights and a platform where stakeholders can exchange ideas on best practices with a view to developing protection strategies. it is necessary and appropriate to entrust the office for harmonisation in the internal market (ohim) with the tasks currently carried out by the observatory, as the office has the financial resources and expertise to carry out the recently extended tasks of the observatory. the aim of the proposal is to improve the exercise of the powers conferred on the observatory. this is all the more so as in the current context of the continuous growth of counterfeit trade, which causes considerable losses of tax revenue for member states, jobs and a decrease in investment in innovation, it is useful to implement the activities carried out by ohim. the observatory will become a permanent forum for public and private sector representatives on counterfeiting and piracy in europe.
in writing. − the proposal in the masip hidalgo report is part of the actions to implement the strategy adopted by the european commission on the creation of a single market for intellectual property rights, which will reform several areas by 2014. the main purpose of the proposal we voted on today is to coordinate the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and the existing european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy (to be called the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights) in order to combat infringements of intellectual property rights in an effective, appropriate and timely manner, in a concerted manner between national and european levels. i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider it a useful step towards achieving a rational and effective implementation of the principle of the protection of intellectual property in all its forms. i welcome the fact that the observatory is coordinated within the ohim, so that it can act in a coherent and concerted way in an area that is as important as it is sensitive, on the one hand by raising public and private sector awareness of the impact of counterfeiting and piracy and on the other by informing consumers of the dangers associated with the purchase of counterfeit products.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation is limited to implementing the powers of an existing office, the office for harmonisation in the internal market (trade marks and designs), and to changing the name of the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy to the european observatory on infringement of intellectual property rights. since the observatory will have to operate from its own resources and since this regulation emphasises the protection of innovative smes and does not prevent the member states from exercising their powers in this field, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy, set up in 2009, has become a hub for collecting, monitoring and reporting information and data on infringements of intellectual property rights in europe. it also provides a cooperation platform where representatives of national authorities and stakeholders can exchange ideas on best practice with a view to developing common protection strategies. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities responsible for the implementation of the acquis. we therefore welcome the commission's proposal to give the office for harmonization in the internal market the task of the observatory, in order to improve the exercise of the responsibilities inherent in the protection of intellectual property rights, provided that it is always ensured that the information collected, analysed and disseminated meets a number of criteria as regards completeness, data quality and their transparency.
in writing. - my vote on the hidalgo report is in favour. i particularly agree with the decision to include in the regulation the reference to the european digital agenda for the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives on intellectual property rights. i agree that a solid, integrated and above all gradual approach is needed.
in writing. - i support mr hidalgo's report on the protection of intellectual property rights, since an overall framework for the creation of a single market in intellectual property rights has yet to be found. the proposals in the text aim to modernise the regulatory framework by giving the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) the task of protecting rights. the role of the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy, which needs more human, financial and technological resources to carry out the necessary monitoring and data collection, must also be strengthened.
in writing. - the report by mr masip hidalgo was voted on today at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg. the purpose of the proposal is to entrust the trade marks office with certain tasks relating to the management of the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy in order to combat infringements of intellectual property rights. the main objectives are to raise public and private sector awareness of the impact of counterfeiting and piracy and to inform consumers of the dangers of buying counterfeit products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that in order to tackle the phenomenon of infringements of intellectual property rights effectively, best practices and strategies for their enforcement must be identified and promoted. i therefore support the involvement of the interested parties in the meetings of the observatory. in doing so, it could act as a platform for exchanging ideas and experience on best practice and formulating recommendations for joint conservation strategies. finally, the participation of adequate representation of consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises would contribute to a better understanding of the value of intellectual property and the extent and impact of infringements of such rights.
, in writing. - in view of the steady growth in the trade in counterfeit and pirated goods, i am in favour of the proposal for a european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy. this is an important step towards fighting organised crime, protecting consumers by ensuring greater safety and reduced health risks, and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises increasingly threatened by the illegal trade in goods. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the observatory should act as a platform for the exchange of best practice at both national and european level by operating from its own funds. i am in favour of the implementation of the functions assigned to it to ensure the appropriate use of consumer and business data to protect privacy.
in writing. the report balances the issue of the need to improve the interconnection between central business registers. the european productive reality is in fact witnessing a continuous and positive expansion of enterprises beyond national borders, thanks to the facilitations due to the continuing deepening of the single market. the creation of a coherent legal and fiscal environment and a framework for cooperation between member states is necessary, including through greater and better interconnection of business registers. the benefits will be particularly significant for businesses, both in terms of cost savings and time savings. in addition, it would strengthen their competitiveness and the protection of consumers, creditors and other potential trading partners. the report introduces elements of balance and common sense in this area, without prejudice to the ultimate objective of legal certainty and transparency between different national realities, without however increasing bureaucratic burdens at the level of the production system. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to create an interconnection of business registers. this is a purely technical interconnection, which does not represent a harmonisation of the legal effects of registers, but rather aims to promote further integration of the economic area within the eu and to strengthen legal certainty for businesses and citizens. on the other hand, the increase in cross-border economic activity requires better interconnection of business registers for the purpose of transparency, saving costs and time. the proposal voted on today in this house regulates the exchange of information contained in registers but does not establish a specific register of companies with their own data. the platform will improve, simplify and accelerate the communication and acquisition of information by citizens and businesses and will allow the full potential of electronic management to be exploited.
in writing. - the economic sphere is certainly the area in which the member states have made the greatest efforts, ceding substantial parts of their national sovereignty to the european institutions in an attempt to break down barriers and create a european economy. the creation of a common market is the greatest achievement of the european integration process which began more than 50 years ago. this does not mean that there are still areas where action can be taken to remove some of the remaining barriers. one of these is the existence of different legislation for business registers, which can therefore vary considerably in terms of format, legal value and information contained therein. the proposals contained in the report voted on today therefore represent a significant step forward towards an increasingly common single market, because they make it possible to reduce the bureaucratic procedures which operators in the sector are often forced to face.
in writing. − we believe that the interconnection of business registers is an important measure, necessary to promote further integration of the economic area within the european union and to strengthen legal certainty for businesses and citizens. business registers are kept at national and regional level and differ in their legal value and the reliability of the data contained in them, de facto and de jure. the increase in cross-border economic activity makes better interconnection of business registers more necessary than ever, for the purposes of legal certainty and transparency, and will also reduce costs and time. we welcome this directive which aims at a purely technical interconnection of existing registers and not at unification of legal effects. it is proposed to regulate only the exchange of information contained in registers, without establishing a register of undertakings with their own data. the aim of the project is to develop a platform to improve and accelerate the communication and acquisition of information by citizens and businesses. we believe that the regulation of technical details should be delegated to future legislation, which will be the result of close cooperation between the commission and the member states.
in writing. − the increase in cross-border economic activity requires better interconnection of business registers for legal certainty and transparency. in this context, the interconnection of business registers is an important measure to promote greater integration of the economic area within the european union. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the interconnection of business registers makes it possible to exploit the full potential of electronic management. it also allows for greater legal certainty and transparency, as well as cost and time savings. in order to improve and speed up the communication and acquisition of information by citizens and businesses, i voted in favour of the proposal on the interconnection of central, commercial and business registers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that the interconnection of central, commercial and company registers is a measure designed to create a more favourable legal and fiscal environment. strengthening the competitiveness of european enterprises and reducing administrative burdens would help to facilitate the exit from the crisis, which is one of the priorities of the europe 2020 agenda. in view of the increasing demand for access to company information in a cross-border context, the establishment of the european central platform would make it easier to obtain official information on companies from other member states. this would improve and speed up the communication and acquisition of information by citizens and businesses. i am convinced that the full participation of the member states in this network would contribute to the further integration of the european economic area. i also look forward to the future participation of third countries in the system of interconnection of registers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this new agreement with guinea-bissau, after the difficulties we had in signing the previous one. the coup d'état that took place a few days after the last fisheries agreement was signed did not allow it to be ratified. the new protocol covers a period of one year. it contains an additional clause allowing its suspension if human rights and democratic principles are not respected. the overall financial contribution of the protocol is eur 7 500 000, in support of guinea-bissau's fisheries policy, and will allow authorisations for european vessels to fish for tuna and tuna-like species.
in writing. − i support this agreement because it is in the interest of both parties to conclude a new protocol that would extend the partnership between guinea-bissau and the eu. indeed, contrary to the fisheries agreement with morocco that was the lowest-cost (most cost-effective) of all agreements that the european parliament rejected in december, the fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau has provided access to fishing opportunities for eu fleet segments, creating employment, and generating additional supplies for the eu market. it is also important to underline that guinea-bissau is one of the poorest countries in the world and is highly dependent on donor support. the eu is the major donor, providing about one third of the international assistance. furthermore the fisheries agreement accounts for about one quarter of all transfers from the eu to guinea bissau, and therefore represents an important additional support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am a firm believer in the effectiveness of fisheries partnership agreements. they have the particularity of both safeguarding fish stocks through regulated fishing and creating jobs and economic support in contexts that need european economic aid. in the specific case, the agreement with guinea-bissau provides for the renewal of the previous partnership for one year pending the parties' drawing up of a new memorandum of understanding with a validity of four years. guinea-bissau has a predominantly agricultural economy, characterised by the use of very backward systems but with considerable fisheries resources both coastal and oceanic in development. this protocol, with an additional clause of immediate suspension if human rights and democratic principles are not respected, becomes a very important economic incentive for a country considered to be among the poorest and least developed in the world. at the same time, it guarantees europe the start of a democratic process.
in writing. - i am in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to the agreement between the european union and guinea-bissau on fishing opportunities. the new text is sufficiently bound to respect for human rights and our democratic principles as provided for in article 9 of the cotonou agreements. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the new protocol aims to strengthen partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector using all available financial instruments. it contains additional clauses on the suspension and review of financial compensation and the suspension of its implementation in the event of a violation of essential and fundamental elements of human rights and democratic principles, as provided for in article 9 of the cotonou agreement. in order to strengthen partnership and cooperation in the fisheries sector, i voted in favour of the project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft because i believe it is necessary to insert in the existing protocol certain additional clauses relating to the suspension and revision of financial compensation in the event of non-respect of human rights and democratic principles. in the event of such violations, it is also necessary to suspend the application of the protocol itself. the agreement has so far proved to be crucial for the eu, providing access to fishing opportunities and boosting its presence in west africa, as well as creating many jobs. the cooperation agreement has also proved its importance for guinea-bissau, particularly in contributing to the economic and fiscal stability of the country.
in writing. − on 15 june 2011, the eu and guinea-bissau signed a protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement for the period from 16 june 2011 to 15 june 2012. it provides for a financial contribution of eur 7 500 000, of which eur 2 950 000 is intended to support guinea-bissau's fisheries policy. the agreement allows european vessels - mainly from spain, portugal, italy, greece and france - to fish in guinea-bissau's waters and is part of a series of tuna fisheries agreements concluded with west african countries. as an italian citizen, i welcome the renewal of the protocol, which also aims to help a developing country which lives on few resources and makes fishing its main economic income.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr haglund's text, which i also dealt with during the deve committee's work. the new protocol, which concerns authorisations for tuna vessels and trawlers, covers a period of one year for a global contribution of eur 7.5 million and contains an additional clause allowing its suspension in the event of human rights violations or a failure to respect democratic principles.
in writing. - i voted against this report on the draft council decision to increase morocco's participation in european union programmes. the eu justifies these proposals by arguing that greater cooperation with morocco itself will lead to better governance of the euro-mediterranean area. but the eu's inertia in the face of the emergencies of summer 2011, when thousands of illegal migrants took advantage of the chaos in north africa to cross the mediterranean and pour onto the italian coast, shows that the numerous agreements signed so far with the so-called "mediterranean partners" are of no use to the eu, and are not able to ensure any "euro-mediterranean governance". rather, the mediterranean area seems to be "strategic" only for the countries of north africa, which are increasingly benefiting from the unjustified concessions the eu makes in their favour, while the eu's own member states, such as italy in the first place, are increasingly stripped of their ability to protect their territory, their trade and their rights. secondly, the eu seems unconcerned that the moroccan government is still heavily involved in large-scale corruption. for these reasons, i voted against the conclusion of these agreements.
in writing. - the profound changes undergoing the southern mediterranean region, starting with the tunisian revolution and the events that followed in neighbouring countries, call for the european union to give greater support to the democratic aspirations of these peoples. the kingdom of morocco has been engaged for several years in a comprehensive process of political, economic and social reform. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the eu and morocco, which we voted for and supported here today, represents a decisive milestone in their bilateral relations. it authorises morocco to participate in all current and future union programmes, and all this is in line with the main objectives of the neighbourhood policy. we confirm our support for and encouragement of morocco's efforts to deepen the reforms already undertaken and to initiate future reforms, ensuring the effective participation of all its citizens and respect for human rights on its territory.
in writing. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the european union charter of fundamental rights. this is why morocco should be allowed to participate in all current and future union programmes open to it. i hope that the european union's neighbourhood policy will move more and more in this direction. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i consider it essential to support morocco in its partnership process with the european union, especially at a time of profound change for the southern mediterranean. the special status of morocco, which has been engaged in a process of political, economic and social reform for many years, extends the scope of bilateral cooperation with the european union to areas not covered by the 1996 association agreement. i am convinced that the protocol to the agreement represents a further step in the development of eu-morocco bilateral relations. political and strategic cooperation would thus be accompanied by a dynamic of deepening economic and financial cooperation, offering morocco the possibility of gradually integrating into the eu internal market.
in writing. the vote this morning on the protocol to the eu-morocco association agreement provides for the north african country's participation in community programmes. the decision to open such negotiations was taken in the foreign affairs committee. morocco is indeed a key political and economic partner for many of the member states, and particularly for those on the mediterranean coast. we have therefore been following its approval closely and hope that the reforms the country has initiated will be completed soon. i believe it is essential to accompany the country on its path towards full democracy, because a stable neighbour means stability for our european union too. morocco, together with jordan, is the only eu partner state on the southern shore of the mediterranean to have achieved an 'advanced status' in bilateral relations.
in writing. − unlike ' live attenuated vaccines', the new inactive vaccines do not present a risk of unwanted transmission of the vaccine virus and could therefore be used successfully outside areas where restrictions on movement of livestock have been imposed. in order to make the rules on vaccination against bluetongue more flexible, in particular by allowing the use of inactivated vaccines outside areas where restrictions on animal movements have been imposed, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the commission's proposal to make the rules on vaccination against bluetongue more flexible is valid. the provisions of directive 2000/75/ec relate only to vaccines available at that time, allowing vaccination only in specific areas where the disease has actually occurred and where restrictions on the movement of livestock have been imposed due to the high risk of transmission. the new 'inactive vaccines', on the other hand, do not present a risk of infecting unvaccinated animals and could therefore be successfully used outside areas where restrictions on animal movements have been imposed.
in writing. - bluetongue is a notifiable disease affecting ruminants and is transmitted by flies which, by biting the animal, transmit the disease to it. vaccination is an important tool against the disease. directive 2000/75/ec limits the vaccine to areas where animal movements have been restricted. in recent years, new vaccines have been marketed which, unlike previous vaccines, do not present a risk of unwanted transmission of the virus to vaccinated animals. i am in favour - as is my whole political group and the other groups (the text was unanimous on almost all points long ago in the committee on agriculture and was recently approved without amendments for approval at second reading) - of the objectives of the commission proposal, which is to introduce additional opportunities for vaccination against bluetongue and to reduce the burden of this disease on european agriculture.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr wojciechowski, which aims to update the current rules for vaccination against bluetongue, to make them more flexible and to take account of the progress made in vaccination techniques. i hope that, once the problems have been resolved by an interinstitutional agreement, the procedure can be concluded quickly so that the new rules can come into force as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to create an internal market for payment services in euro, i.e. a single area in which there are no differences between national and crossborder payments. the integration of european payment markets has several economic benefits: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are respected, and that the rules on the free movement of goods and services are applied. the impact assessment of the proposal estimates that the potential benefits for the european economy are in the region of eur 100-300 billion over six years. the proposed regulation also provides that the direct debit and electronic transfer systems will be phased out within 12 and 24 months of the entry into force of the regulation respectively. the rapporteur agrees, however, that a single transitional period of 24 months from the entry into force of the regulation would be more effective, in order to simplify communication to the public and improve the effectiveness of the necessary information campaigns.
in writing. − the harmonisation of a single area for payments in euro is an important step towards the integration of financial markets. reducing transaction costs will create more competition and intensify economic activity within the single market. however, to achieve these results, the transition process must take place in a harmonious way in all member states: i think that this is why it is important to set a single deadline by which all direct debit and direct transfer operations must comply with certain technical standards. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. - the report by mr essayah takes a closer look at a subject which affects all european citizens to varying degrees: simplification of the procedures for payment by credit transfer and debit in order to make them common to all member states. with the introduction of a single area for payments in euro (sape), a payment transaction made by means of a transfer in a foreign country will be treated as the same transaction carried out in the country of origin. this will benefit both businesses, which will reduce operating costs, estimated to save between eur 100 and 300 million over six years, and citizens, who will see many financial transactions, which are increasingly common and widespread in a globalised market, simplified.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. the creation of an integrated market for electronic payments in euro, without distinction between national and cross-border payments, is absolutely necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. i agree that we want to protect consumers: the principle of not charging higher fees should be promoted where the payment service user is a consumer. it is good that the commission does not stop its monitoring.
in writing. - i wanted to express my positive opinion of this report, since it is intended to simplify and better regulate a very important and constantly expanding sector. in fact, both businesses and citizens are increasingly dealing with international payment systems, and this can create problems with different regulations. the creation of a single area for payments in euro (sape) should ensure a single integrated and homogeneous system, in which there is no longer any difference between, for example, a national transfer and a european transfer. this should lead to considerable simplification and considerable savings, to the benefit of both european businesses and consumers.
in writing. - today our parliament has expressed an important position towards consumers: bank transfers between eu countries will soon become cheaper, safer and faster, thanks to new legislation on the single euro payments area. from 1 february 2014, the new eu rules will also ensure that hidden costs in banking operations are eliminated and should save customers, banks and businesses up to €123 billion over 6 years. it is a tangible sign of the will to demonstrate to our citizens that the internal market exists, is developing and is intended to create conditions worthy of confidence on the part of businesses and consumers. it will be possible to make and receive payments in euro throughout the union on the same basic conditions as national payments and we hope that the sector linked to cross-border transactions, including online, will receive a boost to ensure greater competition, competitiveness and quality for european citizens, to the benefit of consumers and businesses.
in writing. the proposal aims to create an internal market for payment services in euro (single area for payments in euro sepa) in which there are no differences in regimes between crossborder and national payments. it brings significant economic benefits by enhancing competition and innovation, helps reduce payment costs for consumers and businesses, and simplifies cross-border payments which will be similar to national payments. in order to set the necessary technical requirements, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 924/2009.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my colleague mrs essayah on her work. the regulation adopted today will bring real benefits to ordinary citizens. the most obvious is the possibility of paying from a single bank account to any country, as if you were executing a transaction at national level. all crossborder transfers will be able to be made as national payments. if a person living abroad does not need a bank account in his country of residence, he can receive his salary on the account of his country of origin. businesses will also benefit from the fact that they no longer have to open a bank account in every country where payments are made. a european citizen will be able to move around the eu and continue to use the same euro bank account, into which he can also deposit his salary earned in another eu country. you can pay a bill in one country with an account in another. competition between service providers should also drive down prices, and a discriminatory transfer cost policy based on the amount of the transfer will be prohibited.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i am convinced that the creation of an integrated market for electronic payments in euro, without distinction between national and crossborder payments, is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. the single euro payments area (sepa) would enable citizens, businesses and other economic operators to use payment services common to the union as a whole, replacing the current national services. the integration of european payment markets should also bring significant economic benefits through enhanced competition and innovation, thus allowing consumers and businesses to have access to low-cost, easy-to-use and reliable euro payment services.
in writing. - i welcome the agreement reached today by almost unanimous vote, which speeds up the legislative procedure and brings it to an end at first reading. i am in favour of the text, and i believe that with this morning's vote in the house the hidden bank charges for crossborder payments will have to be eliminated once and for all when the new community rules come into force. ensuring a high level of competition in the banking sector for payments between european countries could save businesses, customers and banks up to €123 billion over six years, according to the european commission. the commission will be proposing a new regulation on the sepa (single euro payment area) by 1 february 2014, which will enable us to see the tangible results of european legislation as soon as possible.
in writing. - i have given my favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint mr baudilio tomé muguruza as a member of the court of auditors because i consider him to be the person most suitable, qualified and competent to fill the role assigned to him. i hope that he will do a very good job in respecting the interests of the european citizens and cooperate as much as possible with the european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, reasonable prices, stabilization of the markets and support for the poor are among the objectives of the food distribution programme. the institutions, like the national authorities, have stated the need for full support for the programme through the eu budget, rejecting proposals for co-financing by the member states. we have talked about food waste. we have recently approved the report by mr caronna, which also raised the problem of poor access to food for the poorest. i believe that the issues are closely linked: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to help the most deprived. local initiatives to help people in economic difficulties are countless. i would like to give the example of food collection, which should be given more weight in the programme on which we are called upon to vote. we need to network and organize those who voluntarily want to contribute but cannot find available channels. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who are working towards this in their daily lives.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to be voting tomorrow on the recommendation for the second reading on the european union's programme for the distribution of food to the poor, which provides for the continuation of this important programme until 2013. after all these months and with the efforts of many people, who i would like to thank, starting with our rapporteur, vice-president siekierski and commissioner cioloş, we have succeeded in achieving this important result, which means that 18 million poor people in europe are not left to their fate. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for this programme and its continuation beyond 2013. our political initiative will therefore go ahead: we will not be satisfied with tomorrow's vote, mr president. in full compliance with the judgment of the court of justice, europe must be able to continue to show solidarity with the weakest sections of our society, especially at this time of severe economic crisis.
mr president, i too welcome the positive result achieved for the transitional period, but i hope that the final solution will be found in the financial perspectives for a stable, definitive and rapid response to a real need, which unfortunately is increasing because the number of the poor, the new poor, is constantly growing in europe. new segments of the population, once self-sufficient, now lack the food to live, which is the first elementary right. these are poor workers, single mothers with children, separated parents, people with debilitating diseases. the spectre of hunger is again appearing in this civilized europe. i think that this cannot leave us indifferent, just as we cannot support the arguments of those who - unfortunately many of our colleagues among them - want to place responsibility first and foremost on the member states, to introduce food education, and so on. i think that we must first do this and then abolish food aid, not the other way around. fortunately, however, there is a europe outside this chamber made up of young people, volunteers, associations and political forces who are calling for a fairer and more united europe. this is what we're gonna work for.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr nicholson for his work, which has been very time-consuming indeed, and all the shadow rapporteurs and nicholson's collaborators, who have certainly proved to be very efficient. i am here today to support this agreement, which was reached after a long period, because i believe that the situation with milk quotas, at least as far as my country is concerned, was creating enormous difficulties, especially for producers in our regions. i am extremely pleased that all my colleagues have committed themselves to this. we shall see if this is the result. we shall see whether that is achieved. in any case, it must not be forgotten that in every meeting, including with the council, parliament's objective has always been to defend producers. i hope that in future we will be able to take more and more action to emphasize the importance of our production and our quality, which are certainly the only way to ensure that our milk can continue to circulate freely and be consumed by our market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to adopt marks the end of a journey europe has been on since the crisis of 2009 to find solutions to stabilise the market and the incomes of milk producers. thanks to the work and commitment of the european parliament and our rapporteur, mr nicholson, whom i really thank for his enormous commitment along with his shadow colleagues to this important report, we have quickly reached agreement on a text which is better than the commission's proposal. an important innovation is the possibility of managing and planning production volumes of certified quality dairy products. this instrument, which, in a historical phase of strong and prolonged market volatility, takes on an even more strategic significance which we will consolidate in the new rules on quality agri-food products. the new possibility of involving trade representatives in inter-branch organisations is also very important in order to promote and consolidate positive relationships between all the components of the supply chain. today, mr president, commissioner, we are showing that parliament is able to assume its responsibilities and to cooperate swiftly in completing the legislative process. it is our first test bed for the great challenge of the debate on cap reform.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs very much. we will get good and necessary legislation! the aim of this legislation is to redefine and regulate the supply chain. this will also be the case for the first part of the chain, i.e. from the farmer to the processor. what i think is missing in this legislation - as some colleagues have already said - is the second part of the chain. what happens from the processor to the consumer? there are some open questions: some have already been mentioned, such as selling at stand-alone prices, and many other questions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quotas are not exhausted, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the positive aspect of this legislation is that it allows producer organizations and associations to make special arrangements and control supply in the field of pdos and pgi, i.e. protected designations of origin. this is what some organisations need, and in the context of the discussion of the quality package, this is the right approach. we should do that for other products in the quality package. for what is good for milk can only be cheap for other products.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 15 february 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the joint debate on– the recommendation by josé bové, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the kingdom of morocco concerning reciprocal liberalisation measures on agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products, the replacement of protocols 1, 2 and 3 and their annexes and amendments to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the kingdom of morocco, of the other part (15975/2010 – c7-0432/2010 – 2010/0248(nle)) (a7-0023/2012), and– the commission and council statements on the agreement between the eu and morocco concerning reciprocal liberalisation measures on agricultural products and fishery products.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, in an evolving southern neighbourhood, morocco has remained a key partner of the european union and, in line with rapid changes taking place in the region, morocco is undertaking substantial political and economic reforms. as you know, a new constitution was approved in july. free and fair elections took place in november, and now the new government is taking the reform agenda forward. major efforts are being made towards the consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, as well as towards sustainable and inclusive development. they deserve our full support, not only because this is in our strategic and economic interest, but also because we have committed ourselves to it. you will remember that last spring both the council and the european parliament agreed to be much more responsive to the efforts of our partners. we must now all work together to ensure delivery on the ground. one of the key features we can offer morocco in the long term is progressive and deep economic integration with the eu internal market. in the mean time, we need to look at trade measures that can be introduced rapidly and that can be beneficial for both sides. this is what we can offer morocco today, with the agricultural liberalisation agreement which is the subject of today’s debate and the vote soon to take place. the entry into force of this agreement would represent a significant step forward for overall bilateral relations between the eu and morocco. it would demonstrate that the european union is indeed delivering on its promise to support economic development in the region through increased trade opportunities. needless to say, our southern partners have not forgotten that our renewed approach towards the southern neighbourhood includes increased market access, and they will hold us to our word. but we should not forget that this agreement is also in our own interest. that is why it was approved unanimously by the council. morocco will make extensive moves to open its markets to eu products and this agreement will immediately liberalise 45% of eu exports, increasing over time to 70%. it will provide new opportunities for eu exporters. this agreement is the result of sustained dialogue and combined efforts. concessions have been made on both sides, and any blockage at this stage could have serious consequences for our relations with morocco, in particular with regard to the continuation of ongoing negotiations on the liberalisation of services and on a mobility partnership. in the same way, the adoption this morning of the recommendation by mrs neyts-uyttebroeck on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement covering the general principles for morocco’s participation in eu programmes marks an important new stage in our bilateral relations. it gives morocco the right to take part in a range of current and future community programmes. this is very much to be welcomed. by also giving your consent to the trade agreement tomorrow, this parliament will serve to underline that the eu stands by its firm commitments. it will show that we support southern mediterranean partners’ ambitions for reform, and that we demonstrate that support in very practical and concrete ways. this is the time for the eu to act. this is the time for us to show that we mean business, but also that we stand by our word to northern africa and to the process taking place there right now.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate during the whole period of consultation on this agreement, which is very important for our bilateral relations with morocco. i welcome the considerable progress made by the lisbon treaty, which allows us to have a thorough, open and transparent democratic debate on a fundamental issue such as a trade agreement. i will begin with some general considerations of substance which i think are important, and then i will anticipate and answer some specific questions which you have raised recently about this agreement. morocco is not a partner like the others. it is an important partner politically and economically, but also humanly. it's a country that has had an advanced status since 2008, in relation to the european union. morocco has shown its willingness to join the european union and has committed itself to continuing this process, in particular by aligning its agricultural policies with the acquis communautaire. in the political context of the arab spring, our partnership is set to deepen even further in order to strengthen the democratic momentum through increased political and economic support, including in the agricultural field. the trade agreement with morocco does not escape the european union's responsibilities and commitment to the development of moroccan agriculture. we have a very clear intention to support the green morocco plan which makes it possible to encourage in a targeted way small moroccan farms and local sectors. these are a key link in the security and stability of the food supply as well as in the economic and social development of the country. this is a very important aspect for me and i can assure you that i am personally following this case. to be more specific, i think that the agreement is an important milestone in the advanced status with morocco, a milestone which has been negotiated with great care for several years. this agreement, which i clearly call on you to support, is a balanced agreement as a whole, which opens up trade prospects for our agricultural sector. the internal balance of the agricultural negotiations is for me an essential element, not only for this agreement with morocco but also for future agreements. i understand there may have been some concerns. i think we have been able to address these concerns over the last few weeks and i want to come back to a few more specific points. i can tell you that the question of fruit and vegetables was indeed treated as a sensitive issue in the negotiations of this agreement. the agreement contains all the provisions which will help to safeguard the future of european production, such as tomatoes, zucchini, cucumbers, garlic, clementines and strawberries. these products will not be liberalised by the agreement. i would also like to stress the health aspects. consumer safety is not negotiable and morocco takes this matter very seriously, as the latest inspections by the european union's food and veterinary office in february showed. the commission shall also provide technical assistance to strengthen moroccan administrative capacity, including in this area. the agreement will strengthen bilateral cooperation channels, safeguard clauses and provisions on eu sanitary and phytosanitary standards and norms. we clearly have this kind of thing in the agreement. i can assure you that the european commission will strictly monitor the import volumes, particularly for the most sensitive products, as well as the quality and food safety of these products. this agreement will also be reflected in morocco's commitment to open negotiations for a bilateral agreement on geographical indications. and you know how important this is for the european union. this commitment goes in the direction of a quality policy which you know i am a great supporter of. finally, i have heard some recurring concerns about the operation of the entry price mechanism for the fruit and vegetables sector. in this connection, i would like to remind you that the reform of the common agricultural policy already provides for the alignment of the entry price mechanism with the rules of the customs code, which will in fact lead to a better functioning of the entry price system that some of you have called for. i am committed to moving this matter forward as soon as possible. the proposal is already on the table in the council and parliament as part of the reform. this parliament will adopt a strong resolution to accompany this vote. i can assure you that the european commission will come back to you with a detailed follow-up of all the issues you have raised. i would like to ask you once again to support this agreement with morocco, which is an important partner, both politically and economically, in the southern mediterranean.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, commissioner, what mr bové said sums up the whole issue. i am here as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture, which voted against this trade agreement by a majority because, commissioner, your explanations today certainly give us peace of mind, but when the agreement was analysed in the committee on agriculture those were certainly not the assumptions. our main concern is two fundamental factors. the first is that we are certainly not helping small moroccan farmers. the second, which concerns us more closely and concerns above all the spanish and southern italian farmers - especially those in sicily - is the fact that we are dealing with unfair competition, which could completely destroy our fruit and vegetable sector. this is really scary. we do not want this agreement to help or promote multinational companies which may produce in morocco, using mainly slaves or underpaid farmers. this would certainly not be to the advantage of those small farmers whom the european union is supposed to defend, nor would it be to the advantage of those human rights of which we so much talk in this parliament.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the trade agreement with the kingdom of morocco is a trade agreement of great political importance. morocco is the only country in the mediterranean area to have implemented reforms to improve its constitution, and the recent elections have shown the willingness of all political forces to listen to each other. that is why the kingdom of morocco represents for us europeans a stable reality and a gateway to the african continent - a continent which, in addition to the known problems, is also subject to excessive market pressure and chinese expansionism, which should worry those who speak of slaves. this agreement, which replaces the previous one - which was bad, mrs bové said, although she recalled it because it does not allow europe to exercise the necessary controls - also demonstrates the new attention that europe is paying to the development of the mediterranean area, to the ever deepening of democratic processes and to the economic recovery in those countries so that it can counteract the emigration, now forced, of so many young people. we must make the relations between the union and the maghreb, our natural neighbour and economic partner, stronger and more synergistic: the agreement is therefore a further decisive step in european policy, which is more sensitive and attentive to the needs of the euro-mediterranean area. we understand the concerns of some agricultural sectors but we are confident that the commission will find appropriate support mechanisms if necessary. i would remind you that certain instruments are already in place, such as entry prices for sensitive products, which are a safeguard measure in respect of specific products of ours. i suggest that if the impact assessments should show objective difficulties in the areas concerned, the commission may take this into account in the agreement when revising the cap.
mr president, there is one point on which this parliament has found a broad consensus in recent weeks. it is a question of changing the neighbourhood policy towards the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean, especially after the changes that are taking place and which are producing significant progress in the field of the expansion of democracy, turning the page definitively on the part of the european union in its approach to these countries. we must now show consistency and not schizophrenia in implementing this neighbourhood policy. it would be absurd and guilty of partiality if this policy were limited to demanding more rights and more democracy for these countries, while showing a deafness to everything else, starting with economic and trade issues. we have repeatedly stated that rights and democracy are interrelated, and this is particularly true of a renewed economic and financial policy which can encourage the development of these countries. democracy and economic and social development are inseparable. the agreement with morocco is part of this context and is intended to promote mutual benefit in the field of free trade and the process of integration of the mediterranean region. i am concerned about the protectionism in bové because, instead of helping the development of the democratic process and of rights in these countries, it is actually becoming an objective obstacle to it. for all these reasons, it is important that this agreement be approved by the european parliament and that is what i hope will happen tomorrow.
mr president, there is a greater community interest in this agreement than that of the farmers of the south, which is important. there can be no peaceful and democratic development on the southern shore of the mediterranean if we remain closed to autocratic nostalgia, which can encourage the spread of anti-european sentiments on the african continent. of course, a multilateral approach with the countries of north africa and the middle east would have been preferable, in order to avoid future mismatches. but this deal seems balanced: it doesn't threaten many of our typical products. six products out of the 15 most sensitive moroccan exports will remain under quotas; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. finally, the safeguard clause provides an additional tool of protection in the event of serious damage. it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that this agreement does not solve the atavistic question of the saharawi people. any trade agreement must be accompanied by a courageous political initiative by the union to promote the values of freedom and justice in the world. but the tragedy of the saharawi people cannot be exploited to protect certain economic interests. we can and must have a far-sighted view of trade policy which is not an end in itself - that is precisely what this agreement is showing us and that is why i shall vote in favour.
mr president, commissioner, i am going to outline the method of this agreement which we are going to vote on next thursday, because it is not possible to continue with bilateral agreements but it is necessary to proceed with multilateral negotiations, which can have a much wider impact than what can be achieved with a single agreement. whenever bilateral agreements are made, it is always the european farmers who have to pay the bill. i think that the bill is too salty in this case too, and that is why i am announcing in advance that i will vote against the agreement, also because the so-called reciprocity clause, which is a fundamental element, has not been inserted and parliament is obviously not in a position to make changes to it. we are opening up our market while there are still tariffs on exports of meat and other products from europe to morocco. in addition, reciprocity also requires compliance with production conditions and guarantees for european consumers. we are opening up our market without giving sufficient guarantees to european consumers, and we are putting producers in southern europe, especially those in the mediterranean regions, in a very difficult situation. for these reasons i shall vote against.
mr president, i listened very carefully to the commissioner's speech on the process of 'lisbonisation' under way. it is true, however, as has already been pointed out by other members, that there has been no sharing of this legislative process, which should lead to the conclusion of an agreement between the commission and morocco on a series of fruit and vegetable products, which are an important reference point, especially for the economies of the countries of southern europe. the geographical indications are missing. there is much to be said about plant health checks: there is no reciprocity, there are no high quality standards and, above all, there is no sharing. although we believe that support for the democratization process in morocco should be given in a decisive and concrete way, we cannot vote in favour of an agreement which would certainly jeopardize and would be extremely serious for the many producers who still see in europe a moment of development and competitiveness.
mr president, commissioner, we are against and will vote against this agreement which will bring agricultural products to the european market at a cost of production below the european one. we are voting against the italian producers, the producers in the south of italy. we are saying this to the producers of tomatoes, fruit and vegetables, citrus fruits, grapes, peaches and cherries, who are in danger of being not threatened but rather of being crushed by the entry of products from morocco into the market, where there is no certainty about environmental quality standards, the fertilizers used and social standards such as social security and wage guarantees for agricultural workers in morocco. moreover, these products from morocco would enter our market with a minimum or even no duty, whereas our oil and meat would be subject to duty. well, we are absolutely against it. in the south of italy we are seeing the bankruptcy of companies, the loss of jobs and the abandonment of land: this agreement risks exacerbating this process, which we want to stop. we are moving from support for the arab spring to the start of the european winter for our farmers. we can't have that.
mr president, a minute is not enough for a joke, let alone a reasoning. the arab spring is in our hearts. morocco has made and is making progress and it is right that it does but this does not mean that we have to damage our agricultural economy. this cannot lead to the penalisation of european agriculture, particularly that of southern italy and - why not? - that of my own region, sicily. i think there is also a bit of hypocrisy in all the arguments i have heard: we are justifying the arab spring as a necessary condition for all this to happen, for this agreement to be concluded, while we are fully aware that moroccan farmers will benefit from it; we know very well that the big financial groups have already acquired some of those interests and markets. we know very well that we are once again making fun of the europeans. i hope that europe will once again be a political europe and will no longer be a financial europe, even when it comes to important and sensitive issues such as agriculture.
mr president, i am not in favour of this agreement and many s&d colleagues agree with me for three main reasons. first, this agreement is a fait accompli. it is an additional example of an international action undertaken by the commission without any consultation with parliament, and commissioner füle informed us that it is not possible to modify it. second, the arguments against this agreement put forward by colleagues concerned with the fate of small european and moroccan producers are very strong. a precipitous liberalisation could bring significant damage, as has occurred in many places already. moreover, i do not believe that there is any connection between the arab spring and democratisation on the one side, and the extent of tomato production in north africa, on the other. third, the most important reason why i am against this agreement is that it does not mention one fundamental fact: the rights of the sahrawi people who are harassed by morocco and whose territory is occupied by it, and the fact that these rights are not alluded to directly or indirectly by its clauses. i am very sorry that the commission did not find the courage to clearly say that these agreements exclude the territory of western sahara.
mr president, commissioner, i do not understand why we like to hurt ourselves so much. you have spoken of morocco as an important partner on the human front, whereas many of us have already mentioned that morocco is an imperialist state that is occupying a territory in which the united nations cannot hold a referendum. you spoke of democratic ties with morocco: in morocco, 22 percent of the population votes, it is one of the countries with the highest illiteracy, where workers - farmers and fishermen - do not have the right to organize in unions and where everything is in the hands of the king's family. you spoke of the convenience for farmers: it is a pity that no european farmer has taken note of this convenience, as you well know. explain to me why we ask our farmers and fishermen to respect rules which do not apply to those who fish and farm outside europe but can export their products to our territory. mr commissioner, explain to me why democracy is good for everyone but sometimes it doesn't seem to be good for our house.
mr president, it must be clear that the eurobonds are not intended to shift the responsibility of the less virtuous countries onto the shoulders of the virtuous countries. everyone must remain calm: no one thinks of being "friends". the german reserves, which were initially understandable, now have no reason to exist, because eurobonds can be designed to allow some countries to reduce the cost of debt without increasing it for others. as some colleagues have pointed out, the introduction of eurobonds must be part of a process of greater fiscal integration and coordination among the euro area member countries: but it will also require the utmost care to ensure that this transfer of fiscal sovereignty takes place through institutions with full democratic legitimacy, such as the european parliament. i want to say this as forcefully as i can: no response to the authoritarian fiscal compact procedure. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on a historic vote, planting an important seed to save europe and to move swiftly towards a europe of economic governance, fiscal coordination and hence political europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, too much precious time has already been lost in moving in a direction which seems to me to be both logical and necessary. the member states in difficulty, which are being asked to apply very strict budgetary restrictions and which some people even wanted to supervise, cannot afford to pay billions of euros more than the other countries in the eurozone to refinance their debts, otherwise they will never be able to get out of this crisis. the solution recently proposed by some french analysts seems to me very interesting: the commission has also proposed that the european central bank should be given the task of drawing up a list of the countries whose currency is the euro. this would lead to a general saving in refinancing costs, which would certainly benefit not only those countries which are paying more today but also the so-called virtuous countries. we need to move quickly. europe can no longer be subservient to the interests of one country which claims to decide for all the others.
madam president, after voting on the fiscal compact and the specific budget and setting the tone for the debate on the need for everyone to follow the rules, we are now realizing that there is no single position within either parliament or the governments. we cannot ignore that. the first and second options in the green paper cannot be mutualised for a very simple reason: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the guarantee is valid for all the member states, which is why we have a moral hazard. we cannot afford not to work on the third approach if we want to do it quickly and immediately. that is to say: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. so, the debt in the form of eurobonds would be made up of the best assets, so this option is feasible and can be realized quickly, by using, as i said, the best and the most secure assets through liquid reserves and gold reserves. i think that's the only way to go at the moment: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the denomination of these eurobonds will be defined later: but at the moment we have a serious problem which is economic stagnation: we must act now or the countries that need it will go into recession.
madam president, apart from the financial transaction tax, the fixed bonds are the only concrete proposal that has emerged in recent months to start talking again about development and growth and not just about austerity and rigor. we need resources to re-oxygenate the european economy and to restore confidence to the market, consumers and businesses, a new common project that is economic, fiscal and financial. we need new projects to support employment and to combat youth unemployment. or do we think that we can solve everything with the €82 billion announced with great fanfare in the media at the last european council which are nothing but the structural funds not yet committed by the member states? i think we are all convinced that we cannot talk to the people of europe about sacrifices and cuts any longer. in conclusion, i would like to address my german colleagues. i think that at the moment no one can save himself alone and therefore, if the bonds are not a panacea, germany must also be careful, because if the crisis spreads, this very virtuous country will also have to pay the price.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, an important programme and an ambitious plan: to make europe the world leader in broadband speed, mobility, coverage and capacity. as i have already said, we must aim for broadband for all. europe is lagging behind: the united states and china have already liberalised much of their radio spectrum. the agreement to free up the 800 megahertz frequency band for wireless broadband internet services by the end of this year and to further speed up mobile broadband to at least 30 megabytes per second is therefore welcome. these are important objectives. i believe that the european digital agenda is a source of development, growth and jobs in the long term. we must set out with determination to return to a leading role in the global knowledge economy.
mr president, i must admit that our debate today is a reflection of our contradictions and our impotence. on the one hand, i know that the socialist group is denouncing a pension reform which it has just applauded in similar terms in neighbouring italy. it is not clear how a measure which is virtuous for one country can be detrimental to another. on the other hand, governments that ask greece to show virtue and cut public spending are in fact forcing it to buy military supplies, thus exponentially increasing that same public spending. i also think that is a huge contradiction. who is the real victim of this contradiction? the greek people, many say. but there's one more victim: it is europe. i think you all noticed the images of the greek parliament besieged amidst burning buildings, among which european flags were seen with a central nazi swastika. the real victim of this crisis of democracy is an institutional process like ours, which, although it is working for the good of the european citizens, guaranteeing peace and development, is now seen as an absolute evil. let us move then! mr president, i ask you to go to athens and bring the voice of the european parliament to a besieged greek parliament, against all democratic logic. remind everyone what our real goal is: ensuring peace and development for all.
mr president, by participating in a critical but constructive way in the negotiations on the fiscal compact, this parliament has reached an important point of unity. greater fiscal responsibility at national level is necessary but insufficient and, without concrete actions for growth and solidarity, may trigger an unsustainable downward spiral. there is no trace of this serious and balanced approach of parliament in the preparatory documents of the european council. for the council and the commission the word 'growth' seems to mean fiscal consolidation and wage reductions. it is true that there are positive developments in the internal market, but these are not enough. growth needs a robust internal engine, which has a twofold objective: strengthening domestic demand in the surplus countries and promoting an extraordinary plan of investment financed by project bonds. the commission, on the other hand, reads the macroeconomic imbalances one way - ignoring the logic of the ferreira regulation - and there is no trace in the european council documents of joint project bonds and investments, except for an empty game of three cards with the already existing resources of the structural funds, which is more like the way mussolini moved his tanks during the second world war to make people believe that he had a large army which he did not have. it is therefore clear that this ruling class has fulfilled its task and that only a great political change can save europe from catastrophe.
in writing. the next european council will be very important, as, unfortunately, have been the summits of the past two years. however, expectations have often not been matched by results. this summit will also put the final touches on the details of the fiscal compact. i hope, however, that once the framework for budgetary and fiscal discipline in the member states is defined, we will begin to talk seriously about growth. it is not enough to hear the words and statements repeated throughout europe about the importance of growth and the need for new investment. europe as a whole, and no country excepted, needs an effective, serious and concrete strategy for growth. that is what we are asking the heads of state meeting in brussels to do. i hope that in this context a solution will be found to the problem of greece, which cannot and must not be left alone.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, this plenary session should have only one item on the agenda: the european project as it has been managed until now. this is shown by the data published last week by eurostat: 24 million europeans are unemployed, 115 million citizens are heading towards poverty, one in three of whom is a boy under 18. no one has the recipe for solving the crisis. the european commission pretends to have one by imposing austerity measures on the member states to reduce public debt, while it continues to squander millions of euros by, for example, maintaining two offices in brussels and strasbourg. the cuts in social security and the hidden manoeuvres imposed by technical governments, about which nobody wants to talk openly, are now taking away the meaning of democratic institutions, depriving citizens of dialogue with politics. to regain a sense of responsibility, europe should distance itself from the financial lobbies of the occult powers. the approach of identity relativism and the false myth of welfare deriving from open markets have failed. we need a democracy that can give a voice to the regions, the territories and the citizens.
mr president, we are discussing three excellent reports which demonstrate the wide and articulate conviction within this parliament that growth is essential for the future of the european union. but these are countered by a completely unacceptable attitude on the part of the council and the commission, which are dominated by the ideological approach of exclusive action around stability, with an obsession which, as the events in greece these days show, is now leading explicitly to real problems of democracy. i believe that this gap is unsustainable for the future of europe and that the commission and the council must make some serious adjustments. i would add that the insistence on the 2020 strategy is little more than a cultural option. after five years of crisis, with a severe recession that will last for the next two years, those objectives are no longer there. we must now recognize this in order to propose a comprehensive strategy that does not take reference from what does not exist in nature.
mr president, whenever the situation seems to be improving, new downgrades by the rating agencies come in to shake up the international markets. many european companies are in crisis and, on the employment front, the number of people - especially young people - who are chronically looking for work is increasing. if austerity plans and the defence of the euro are necessary measures, then even more so are profound labour market revisions at national level to revive the european economy. only by boosting the competitiveness of the european union will we give investors new confidence and promote the growth of new jobs.
mr president, there is no doubt that the latest figures on unemployment, especially youth unemployment, are a cause of particular social alarm. if the percentage in the euro area is 10.4 and is on the increase, this obviously has to be a cause for particular concern. this is why we must be very careful about the initiative put forward by the commission to set up a task force, an action team, to support the individual governments - initially eight - in channelling community funds to create new jobs, especially for young people. the right to work is sacred and fundamental and, within the framework of the 2020 strategy, activities in favour of employment and growth will have to be concretely promoted, also linking migration flows to the labour market and ensuring above all the community preference.
mr president, the adoption of this resolution today finally brings attention back to a central issue for the future of europe. the great victim of the crisis and the inadequate employment policies of recent years has been work. the situation, especially among young people, is sadly getting worse. the european council will adopt new guidelines for economic and employment policies on 1 march. it is therefore necessary to talk about a new labour market plan, a market reform capable of boosting employment, backed up by a genuine investment policy, directed towards the new generations in order to give them concrete answers: the commission has also proposed a new employment plan to modernise public education and training systems and finally to give value to the individual. work must be returned to a regular and stable status, not necessarily in the same place for life, but not a "use and throw away" experience either. the real challenge will be to enable and encourage different professional experiences over a lifetime, while preserving and guaranteeing professionalism and pay.
mr president, these guidelines on employment policies will be of great help in achieving the objective of increasing participation in the labour market and thus reducing youth unemployment in particular. the future of young people today is increasingly uncertain and precarious. it is no secret that sustained economic growth is now crucial for europe's future. the figures for youth unemployment are dramatic and unacceptable. the european union must commit itself to a medium- to long-term strategy for better, full and good employment, which focuses on young people and youth mobility, but also on gender equality in the labour market and, at the same time, aims to improve the performance of education and training systems at all levels.
mr president, the current economic crisis, combined with the austerity measures adopted in some countries, has created new social categories at risk of poverty, including young people and the elderly. in view of the europe 2020 objectives, the annual growth review should ensure consistency between the different priorities in its policy guidelines, so that budgetary needs are based on social justice. i agree with the rapporteur that we must act now to improve the employment conditions of those at risk of social exclusion and give priority to the fight against youth unemployment. future national reform plans should provide for training pathways that develop lifelong learning and create skilled jobs with decent pay and working conditions.
mr president, after two years of deadlock in the council and rather difficult negotiations, it has been concluded that, in the absence of a better alternative, the compromise voted today is the only way to reach a transitional solution and guarantee that the poor citizens of the union will benefit from the food distribution programme for the two-year period 2012-13. unfortunately, given the way it was adopted, i believe that the financing of the programme, which will be entirely borne by the union budget and which provides for an annual ceiling of eur 500 million for the union's financial contribution, will necessarily have to be re-examined after 2013.
mr president, i was pleased to help approve the programme for the distribution of foodstuffs to the poor of the union. i believe that at a time like this, when the number of poor european citizens has increased, also because of the economic crisis, an important signal like today's can contribute to greater cohesion in the european union. i am reminded of the example of a neapolitan saint: the doctor giuseppe moscati, who, when he began to receive patients in his office, put his hat on the desk with his hips facing upwards, affixing on them a sign "who has put, who has not taken".
mr president, the vote in favour by this parliament of the programme for the distribution of food to the poor for the next two years is above all a necessary act, also in view of the fact that a few weeks ago we approved a report against food waste which had, among other things, the fundamental objective of helping the most deprived sections of the population. it is unthinkable, in a time of economic crisis and social suffering such as the one we are experiencing, not to give an answer, even if only partial, in this direction. in this context, it is desirable to reach a final solution for the entire period 2014-2020 in a timely manner. as we can see in the streets of athens these days, the image of a european union that can only impose cuts and sacrifices is devastating. we must offer an alternative, and we must do so quickly, a europe which is capable of solidarity and which is able to take care first of all of those who are in difficulty.
mr president, it would be very strange if, in the face of the difficulties and the worsening of the lives of millions of people in europe, the european union were to block the distribution of foodstuffs even further, at the same time reducing the basic rights of social citizenship, the value of social cohesion and the very perception of the european social model. the joint signal from parliament and the council is positive: but we must work to give a certain perspective and future to this important intervention. i note that in my country, the canteens of caritas, local authorities or other non-profit organizations are experiencing an exponential increase in the number of people who have entered the category of the indigent and who no longer have food security, including not only immigrants but also many elderly people and many young people. i believe that this programme is a precondition for our ambitious objective of fighting poverty and reducing it, and that if we had not approved it we would have shown our inconsistency with our political objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at such a difficult time for europe, the distribution of food to the poor of the union, after the council's blockade and the presentation of a new amended proposal by the commission, is certainly a positive development, a useful compromise which has solved many of the issues that had caused the impasse, such as the full financing of the programme by the european union, with the union's own participation in the programme at the distribution points, an annual ceiling of eur 500 million for the community financial contribution, the question of the community origin of the food then distributed and the provision of competitive procedures for the purchase of food. the programme will therefore be operational from 2013 and will allow the supply of food from intervention stocks to the most disadvantaged groups in the union, thus also achieving some of the important objectives of the cap. the fact that we voted in favour today of completing the complex and bumpy road of this report is an important sign of the union's concern for its most deprived citizens.
mr president, according to the most recent estimates, some 16 per cent of the population of the european union lives below or at the poverty line. we have already spoken on monday, at the beginning of this plenary session, about the homeless, the abandoned, the marginalized and those who are 'vulnerable' and who are experiencing particular difficulties, also because of the adverse weather conditions. 600 people died. this is a short answer which, although significant, does not fully satisfy us. the fact that the commissioner has said today that a plan will be drawn up, but without giving any details of what it will contain, does not satisfy us at all. but it is important to have implemented it. eur 113 million is a limited resource; it is right to continue with competitive measures which put everyone in the same position - i am referring to third-party competitors. however, a policy that tackles this problem in a more concrete way is needed.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i am already beginning to look at the next period, after 2015, when the milk quota system will expire and everything will be diversified. in order to ensure a stable future for the sector, the contracting power of producers needs to be strengthened, it should lead to a more equitable distribution of added value along the supply chain. in addition to the formalisation of contracts, it is proposed to allow farmers to negotiate collectively the terms of the contract, including the price, through producer organisations and, at the same time, recognition of inter-branch organisations is important as it should play a useful role in facilitating dialogue within the supply chain. the nature of the contracts, however, remains the most controversial point between the council and parliament, and i hope that further clarification will be possible in the future.
mr president, the dairy sector has been in a terrible crisis for years now, but there are some internal imbalances which this regulation and its amendment - which i have supported from the beginning - will cause to a lesser extent, affecting the operation and putting an end to, or at least partially correcting, those internal imbalances together with other instruments. this measure was adopted by the working group set up by commissioner cioloş, which identified a number of instruments to rebalance the recognition of added value for all operators in the supply chain. in particular, there will be contracts with certain characteristics in terms of form, requirements, duration, timing and procedures which will be of particular use to producers. an important element will be raw milk processed in less-favoured, mountain, intermediate and island areas, where any transfer of milk from non-less-favoured areas will have to be authorised in advance.
mr president, today's vote is a first step towards the europe of economic governance which president delors has been calling for since 1993. the introduction of eurobonds, which i hope will be timely, is part of a wider process which will have to lead the euro area countries to intensify coordination and achieve integration of their economic and fiscal policies. the three options outlined in the european commission's green paper propose three different types of eurobonds, each with a decreasing degree of solidarity between member states. the serious economic crisis we are experiencing shows that no state is immune from financial speculation. to the sceptics, eurobonds are so far the only practical answer to boosting development and growth in europe. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, one of the main problems highlighted by the analysis of growth in the european union in 2012 is the dire need for new and stronger social and employment policies, particularly for young people. a country with a high youth unemployment rate is a country doomed to perish. in italy, my country, the numbers are scary. according to eurostat data from november 2011, the youth unemployment rate is 30.1 percent. young people, often highly qualified and with a lot of energy and desire to do something, are left to wither away in a system where the old man's rule has become the norm. the commission's commitment, through the allocation of the eur 82 billion of the structural funds not yet used to stimulate growth and youth employment, is a good step forward, which must be taken in the right direction. investing in young people means investing in the future. to secure jobs for europe's young people is to secure a future for all of us.
in writing. − in the last year, the actual application of the schengen acquis has been the subject of frequent discussions; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament's recommendation, which i fully support, provides for the implementation and application, through the conclusion of a convention, of the schengen acquis between the acceding eu countries and the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation, non-european countries deemed suitable for compliance with the minimum safety standards imposed for free movement.
in writing. − following the agreements concluded between the european union, the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation on the association of these states with the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, i am voting in favour of the participation of the associated states in the joint committees in order to examine, in due course, any problems relating to the development of the schengen acquis.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for the european parliament resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a convention between the european union and iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland on the participation of these states in the work of committees which cooperate with the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers, as regards the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis.
in writing. − the european union is in a situation of the utmost urgency which requires immediate and targeted action. parliament welcomed the proposal for a european council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, adopted in accordance with the provisions of the treaties and in line with the conclusions of the european council at the end of january. as decided by the council, employment policies are now more than ever the union's priority to tackle the 23 million unemployed and to revive the european economy, also in order to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that coordination between member states is essential to develop a competent workforce throughout the union, to reduce unemployment, especially among young people, and to promote social inclusion, education, training and lifelong learning in order to reverse these effects of the crisis and to combat the risk of poverty.
in writing. − the programme outlined by the council in 2010 for the implementation of the eu 2020 strategy, a programme which this report seeks to reaffirm in substance in all its points for this year as well, contained elements which already at the time made me completely sceptical, and which today, in the light of the events that have taken place in europe over the last two years, can only confirm this initial opposition. the measures against budgetary imbalances that were discussed in 2010 are now known to be austerity measures imposed from above, with catastrophic effects on people's skin, on social systems, on their standard of living, without however these measures seeming to have solved the problem in the slightest. moreover, there was and continues to be an emphasis which i cannot share on the need to open our countries' labour markets to immigration. today, in a time of such a severe crisis, we must think first and foremost of our citizens. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. − today we discussed and voted on the three cornelissen, gauzès and berès reports on the annual growth and employment survey, drawn up in line with the annual growth survey for 2012 proposed by the commission last november. my vote in favour of the berès report reflects the decision of this parliament to adopt the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, as they are consistent with the objectives of economic and social growth identified in the europe 2020 strategy, which must remain so until they are achieved. the strategy sets out the path towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, characterised by high employment rates, productivity and social cohesion.
in writing. − the confirmation by parliament of the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states adopted by the council in 2010 is an act which is not a mere formality, even if the committee responsible has decided to follow the simplified procedure. we had the opportunity to reopen the debate on the initiatives that member states must take to achieve the objectives of europe 2020 and to respond in particular to the now unsustainable situation of unemployment which young europeans are forced to face, even more than others. occasions such as this, and the annual growth review, which we are called upon to comment on in the form of the 'annual guidelines for sustainable growth', give us every year the opportunity to put the future of europe's younger generations at the centre of our debate and to participate in the discussion between the member states and the european commission.
in writing. − our position on the 2020 strategy has traditionally been sceptical and the need to maintain a critical approach to it seems to be reaffirmed in the light of developments in the member states over the past two years. if in 2010 the union was required to take corrective action, especially in the most vulnerable member states, to resolve the macroeconomic imbalances affecting europe, in 2012 the dramatic consequences of the austerity measures introduced by such interventions are the reason why the original scepticism must be confirmed today. the amendments to the proposal also introduced the objective of increasing the proportion of immigrant workers in the union, an objective which i do not share. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that member states must act consistently in their employment-friendly economic policies. the definition of the framework of measures covering the period from 2010 to 2014, with limited intermediate changes, is precisely the homogeneity that is needed to enhance employment policies. the control and monitoring of the implementation of these policies by the member states is also an important aspect to be taken into account when drawing up the final budgets on the subject. these guidelines, i am convinced, are sound indications which tend to reconcile economic policies with labour policies. the value of employment must not be overlooked when each member state is drawing up its economic policies, which, in addition to the restrictive measures necessary to deal with the current crisis, must take account of growth and development which are undergoing a new employment boost.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr berès' report because, in the light of the acute economic and employment crisis in europe today, the objectives of sustainable growth have become extremely important and crucial. the european union has set itself the long-term objective of creating 17.5 million new jobs through a common economic policy. in this context, attention must be directed above all to certain categories of european citizens. in particular, those seeking their first job, i.e. young people who have great difficulty entering the labour market, low-skilled workers and those approaching retirement. among these citizens - and i am sorry to say this as vice-chairman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality - women still remain marginalized and discriminated against in the workplace. the budgetary consolidation policies indiscriminately affect the socioeconomic position of women. the economic recovery policy proposed by the european commission must remain a strategy of sustainable and inclusive growth and not become exclusive to the detriment of women because of the financial and economic crisis.
in writing. - my vote on the berès report is in favour. i agree with the commission's decision to maintain for 2012 the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states set out in the annex to the council decision of 21 october 2010 on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. - growth and employment are certainly very sensitive issues, especially for our young people, but the way in which the commission has presented its proposal is, frankly, worrying. our warning addresses the commission's plan to channel up to €82 billion of uncommitted structural funds into programmes to create jobs for young people and support small businesses, which could undermine confidence in eu regional policy. the plan proposes to use funds in specific regional projects, but without the necessary involvement of local authorities. we are faced with a proposal which creates the false impression that cohesion policy is ineffective, while on the contrary two thirds of the funds for regional policies have already been used or formally committed. while supporting initiatives to increase the transfer of funds, help small businesses and combat youth unemployment, it is legitimate to ask how the commission's approach could be improved: according to the commission, up to €22 billion of european social fund appropriations (one third of its 2007-13 budget) and up to €60 billion of regional and cohesion funds have not yet been committed to specific projects.
in writing. − the annual growth analysis for 2012 includes the draft guidelines for member states' employment policies. the economic crisis and the european common market, which needs measures to make it stronger and more competitive, are giving rise to one of the greatest social problems of the present and the future, unemployment. i voted in favour of mrs berès's text because we need specialised guidelines on employment policies to restore momentum to the economy and confidence to the citizens. the european system needs certainty for the future and the certainty of employment, especially for young people, is the first step towards a better union.
in writing. - we cannot be in favour of a text which aims to solve employment problems and which deals with member states' policies in favour of employment with provisions which seek to 'remove the barriers' which prevent immigrants from accessing the eu labour market. we cannot accept such arrangements, because it is precisely because of the rules which facilitate legal immigrants that it is already easier for them to be called upon to cover a job vacancy than a community citizen. in addition, we have realised that when the european union formulates corrective actions against member states, it is in fact trying to decide for them and, in view of the dramatic consequences of the austerity measures introduced by such measures, we are sceptical of community strategies such as those in question.
in writing. − the commission in its annual growth survey (ags) identified five priorities as actions for 2012: fiscal consolidation, restoration of the normal functioning of the credit market; growth and competitiveness; tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; modernisation of public administration. i, for my part, would like to stress my full support, expressed in the affirmative vote this morning, for the five priorities identified. i would also like to stress that it is absolutely necessary to speed up the work on the completion of the single market and on extending the scope of the ags. finally, i would like to express my appreciation for the integrated approach of the document and the unprecedented attention paid to social issues. one last word about the young people: the fourth priority is to tackle their unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, which is having a serious impact on social inclusion and poverty rates. keeping people active - whether in work, training or even looking for work - is crucial both economically and socially. the text therefore proposes to review wage revision mechanisms so that they better reflect productivity, to remove legal barriers to the recognition of professional qualifications between countries, to restrict access to early retirement schemes, and to encourage the creation of enterprises.
in writing. - i welcomed the news that the two-year-long deadlock on the commission's proposal had been overcome in the council. given the urgency of providing support to the poorest sections of the european union and the delay in taking action, i voted in favour of the siekierski report in order to allow for the rapid distribution of food to the poorest citizens and finally to provide them with union support in a period of not only economic crisis but also of difficult weather conditions. i am firmly convinced that the programme must be financed entirely by the union and i believe that it is necessary to accompany the programme with transitional measures to avoid an immediate drop in food aid and to ensure that the beneficiaries of food aid do not suddenly find themselves in food poverty again. i am therefore pleased with the agreement reached, also because the food to be distributed will be of community origin, and will therefore benefit our production and growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the siekierski report, which aims to guarantee and protect the poor citizens of the european union through a financing scheme for the purchase of foodstuffs. the council has now had to vote on the proposal quickly, without any further amendments, because of the two-year deadlock in the council. in the commission's amended proposal, the programme will remain fully funded by the eu budget but, in order to ensure adequate coverage and financial stability, a ceiling of eur 500 million has been set. the programme will be operational for 2012 and 2013 but it is desirable that parliament has a greater say on the future of the programme after 2013. in the light of the economic and financial crisis which continues to worsen europe's economic situation through worrying repercussions on our social fabric, a strong european voice is needed on the issue of aid to the most vulnerable civil society.
in writing. the report follows the controversial confirmation of the european programme for the assistance of the poor. the text represents a compromise between those who were in favour of continuing the programme and those who wanted it to be closed. the compromise reached thus avoided the risk of an abrupt halt to the programme which would have endangered the survival of the part of the population which depends on this food aid. recent statistics have shown how the crisis is affecting wider and more central parts of the continent. this means that ever larger segments of the population in rich countries are at risk of poverty. in this context, the attitude of those who, in the name of useless austerity, persist in opposing measures of such importance, as well as their limited impact on the community budget, appears even more short-sighted and counterproductive. i welcome this compromise and, above all, i welcome a new agreement which also guarantees the financing of the programme for the future. however, it is hoped that the fight against food waste can be supplemented by programmes which make use of food recovered through rational distribution and use, in order to redistribute it to the most vulnerable groups and those most at risk of poverty.
in writing. - according to the most recent statistics, about 16.3% of the population of the european union lives below the poverty line. as the crisis continues, the situation is even set to worsen: it is estimated that millions of europeans could find themselves without money to eat. today's vote means that the european food aid programme will remain operational until at least 2013, providing concrete and direct support to needy citizens who do not have sufficient resources to feed themselves. i believe it is more important than ever, in the light of the worrying economic, financial and social situation, to guarantee the right to food for all europeans and to continue to ensure adequate funding for this programme, which today provides food aid to some 18 million people in 20 member states. i hope that this instrument can be improved and made more effective after 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr siekierski, with which we have achieved a great result in defence of the millions of european citizens who face difficulties in their daily lives. i am pleased to note that the european parliament has played a key role in achieving this, in full compliance with the court of justice's decision, in finding a bridge solution which could unblock food aid to the poor for this year and the next, thus avoiding a dangerous cut in funds, from the current 500 million a year to the approximately 113 million envisaged by the reduction. clearly this response, which represents a success in defence of the less well-off sections of the population, was essential for us, especially in view of the period of global crisis we are experiencing. it is clear, however, that this result does not put an end to the question of financing the post-2013 programme of aid to the poor, which will see us engaged in parallel with the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. the programme for the distribution of food to the poor must be financed entirely from the eu budget. we believe it is appropriate to guarantee for the future the current rate of 100% eu funding of the programme but, in order to ensure financial stability, an annual ceiling of eur 500 million is foreseen for the union's financial contribution. we welcome the inclusion of some substantive changes proposed by the european parliament's amendments, namely: the concept of eu origin of the foodstuffs; the obligation to clearly indicate the participation of the union in the programme at the distribution points; the need for foodstuffs to be purchased through competitive procedures; the reimbursement of storage costs incurred by charitable organisations.
in writing. - i support, by my vote in favour, a procedure which can take important measures for those european citizens who live in poverty. the european institutions have a duty to provide financial support for charitable organisations which provide for the disadvantaged and needy. because of the harsh winter, there are many examples of deaths caused by the lethal combination of cold and malnutrition. in the face of such deaths, we cannot remain passive and inactive. that is why i am pleased that the council has approved some of the important amendments tabled by parliament, in particular the amendment which provides for the full financing of the distribution of foodstuffs to be borne entirely by the european institutions.
in writing. − as many colleagues underlined during the debate, the future of the programme remains uncertain beyond 2013. i therefore believe that the european parliament, together with the commission and the council, should immediately begin work on concrete proposals to continue the programme and demonstrate that europe is in solidarity with the most vulnerable citizens.
in writing. by voting for this text, i supported the need to reassure the pead beneficiaries. the blocking minority has given in to the need not to deprive the associations and the most deprived whom they help of essential support. but we must not settle for a compromise. it was necessary to find an emergency solution, but the priority now is to find a long-term solution. we cannot be satisfied with this partial agreement and it is up to the council of the european union not to retreat behind legal arguments. between the economic crisis in europe and the particularly difficult winters this year, our citizens must find in europe the response of solidarity they are looking for.
in writing. the proposal to distribute food to the poor has been blocked in the council for two years. two months, two weeks, two days would have been too much for people living in poverty anyway. it should also be noted that the amended commission proposal of 3 october 2011 and the council position at the plenary stage have incorporated all the substantive amendments adopted by parliament at first reading, supporting the financing of the programme, which remains fully borne by the union budget. we have maintained the current rate of 100% eu funding of the programme for the future but, in order to ensure financial stability, an annual ceiling of eur 500 million is foreseen for the union's financial contribution; other substantial amendments to the ep were accepted in their essential content, such as the notion of eu origin of food products, the obligation to clearly indicate the participation of the union in the programme at distribution points and the need for foodstuffs to be purchased through competitive procedures. and then, of course, the reimbursement of the storage costs incurred by the charities. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text on the adoption of the regulation on the distribution of food to the most deprived in the union because it achieves one of the main objectives of the cap. the text, drawn up in full accordance with the council's positions, sets out the commission's responsibility for the full financing of the programme. with a budget of eur 500 million, the eu will fund the project from 1 january 2012 to the whole of 2013, with a particular focus on expanding future funding in line with the europe 2020 project. another important objective is that the food to be distributed must be of community origin.
in writing. − given the urgency created by the two-year deadlock in the council on the proposal on food distribution, and also considering that parliament, in its resolution of 7 july 2011, called on the commission and the council to work out a transitional solution for the last two years of the funding period, namely 2012 and 2013, in order to avoid an immediate and substantial drop in food aid following the reduction of funding from eur 500 million to eur 113 million and to ensure that people dependent on aid are not in a situation of food poverty, i am voting in favour of parliament accepting, without amendments, the council's position approved at first reading on 23 january 2012.
in writing. - today, at the plenary session of the european parliament in strasbourg, we voted on the report by mr siekierski. the european food programme supports some 18 million europeans who are homeless, unemployed, elderly or disabled, as well as large families and single parents. this programme will continue to provide food for europe's citizens in need for another two years thanks to the agreement reached in the council and thanks to today's vote. this has avoided a net cut in food aid as the number of people in need grows due to the effects of the global crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i consider it a priority to accept the position adopted by the council on 23 january 2012, as it integrates the amendments proposed by the european parliament at first reading. i therefore think that it should be adopted without further amendments in order to reach an agreement on the second reading quickly. the final objective must be to help the poor citizens of the european union, who are the beneficiaries of this food distribution programme, as quickly as possible.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the distribution of food to the poor in the union. once adopted, the regulation will have retroactive effect: it will apply from 1 january 2012 until the completion of the 2013 annual plan. the programme is to be financed entirely from the union budget and is to have an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. the proposal takes account of the notion of food originating in the european union, the requirement for distribution points to clearly display the eu's participation in the plan, the purchase of foodstuffs by competitive procedures and the reimbursement of storage costs incurred by charitable organisations. for our part, on behalf of the european parliament, we meps are now calling for unconditional support for the continuation of the programme beyond 2013, in view of future commission proposals on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. − in 2010, the european commission presented a proposal establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme and setting out policy guidelines and objectives for strategic planning and harmonisation of spectrum use up to 2015. after five informal trilogues, the eu parliament and council reached a political agreement on the legislative proposal. i welcome this political agreement, which lays the foundations for a development which will enable the european union to take the global lead in terms of speed, mobility, coverage and capacity of broadband. in my view, it will be a key element in the realisation of a flexible and coordinated european radio spectrum strategy, which will be able to meet the exponential growth of mobile data traffic. in addition, the support of member states and parliament for the commission's proposal to liberalise the 800mhz band for electronic communications services by 1 january 2013 will help to create a pan-european telecommunications market where new services can generate jobs and growth opportunities for a market of 500 million consumers.
in writing. − the proposal under consideration sets out the policy guidelines and objectives for the harmonisation of the use of radio spectrum, which today affects countless public and private services in a wide range of sectors. the regulation dealt with in this proposal lays the foundations for a development that will enable the union to take the global lead in broadband speed, coverage and capacity, with significant positive consequences in areas such as the economy, security, health, culture, science, environment and technology. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this report which calls for the liberalisation of radio frequencies with a view to a new allocation of frequencies. although i am in favour of a liberalised market and the introduction of new competitors in the sector, i have serious doubts about the adaptability of the new frequencies and their distribution at european level. a roadmap on timing and modalities must be drawn up in such a way as to ensure adequate regulation of the sector, since this in particular has a direct impact on the information field, often having important repercussions on the social and economic system. i therefore believe that the objective of the digital agenda must be achieved by taking different paths and reviewing choices which, at present, do not allow the european union to significantly improve its broadcasting policy.
in writing. - my vote on mr hökmark's report is in favour. the agreement lays the foundations for a development that will enable the european union to play a global leading role in broadband speed, mobility, coverage and capacity. this is an important step towards the realisation of a flexible and coordinated european radio spectrum strategy.
in writing. − i believe it is essential that the european parliament and the council of the union agree to plan a common strategy for the use of spectrum by 2015. this will lay the foundations for the european union to become the world leader in speed, mobility, coverage and capacity of broadband. the implementation of an effective strategy for the use of radio spectrum will also help to cope with the exponential growth of mobile data traffic.
in writing. − finally, at second reading, agreement was reached on the policy guidelines and objectives for the planning and harmonisation of the use of radio spectrum. these decisions concern important sectors and services ranging from scientific activities, transport, mobile and television communications, radio and medical equipment. let us not forget how essential careful management is to the security and civil protection services. other key elements are: the deployment of wireless broadband internet in all member states and the increase of capacity by 2020 and the assessment by the commission, in consultation with the member states, to allocate a wider availability of unlicensed frequencies for wireless access systems, radio frequency local area networks and wi-fi. particular attention should be paid to the commission's unreported assumption, not mentioned in this text, that the use of european funds for broadband should be regarded as state aid rather than community aid. it is clear that such a disastrous choice would be contrary to the spirit of this provision.
in writing. − i consider the radio spectrum policy to be a crucial element in the creation of a european digital single market, especially in relation to its objective of defining policy guidelines and objectives for strategic planning and harmonisation in the use of radio spectrum, in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market. under the agreement we approved in the house this morning, eu member states should make the 800 mhz frequency band available for wireless broadband services by 1 january 2013. at least 1200 mhz of spectrum should be allocated to mobile data traffic after 2013 but before 2015, as requested by us in the european parliament. i am sure that this will create a pan-european telecommunications market where new services will be able to create opportunities and growth for a market of 500 million consumers. in this way, europe will be at the forefront of providing broadband internet to its citizens and promoting future developments of the network.
in writing. the so-called 'milk package' contains specific rules for the dairy sector concerning: the setting-up of producer organisations for the collective sale of milk; the recognition of inter-branch organisations which may carry out information and promotion activities for dairy products and provisions for the drawing up of contracts for the sale of milk raw materials. the compromise on the regulation was reached at the community's 'trilogue' last december and contains many improvements on previous proposals, accepting the requests of the italian and european dairy sector to maintain flexibility in the definition of contracts, the basic elements of which, as provided for in the commission's proposal (price, volume, delivery schedule and duration of the contract), will be freely negotiated by the parties. parliament's commitment to the negotiations has enabled the inclusion of production planning for pdo/pgi cheeses in the text of the regulation, which was not included in the european commission's initial proposal. this is an essential instrument which can be used by countries, under certain conditions, to align supply and demand of products, preventing fluctuations resulting from the formation of possible surpluses for italian long-aged pdo cheeses.
in writing. − the crisis has highlighted the lack of market orientation in the dairy sector, making it urgent to introduce rules to stabilise farmers' incomes and to improve transparency in the supply chain. the long period of fixed quotas and high institutional prices - creating guaranteed outlets - has rigidised the market: the actors in the production chain were not stimulated to respond to market signals and were not incentivised to innovate and increase productivity. however, the best way to ensure that the total abolition of quotas is achieved is to make sure that the transaction is smooth and that there is no too rigid and violent impact which could increase the risks for the sector and for producers. in this sense, the use of contracts for the delivery of raw milk, concluded in advance, between producers and dairies appears to be able to rebalance contractual powers, especially because it allows collective negotiation of the terms through farmers' organisations. the possibility - wanted by parliament - of planning and managing production volumes of certified quality dairy products (dop) is also welcomed. it is therefore essential that the urgent reform of the system does not create difficulties for producers of the best that the territory is able to export.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the milk package as the measures introduced will have a positive impact on the dairy sector, which has been in crisis since 2009. the adoption of the rules of procedure is a reward for the long work of parliament, especially during the trilogue with the commission and the council. i am also very pleased with the positive impact that today's vote will have on italy and its production of excellence: i am referring, for example, to the 37 national cheeses with a designation of origin (dop), which are even more protected by the introduction of production planning for dairy products protected by a protected designation of origin (dop) and a protected geographical indication (pgi).
in writing. the dairy sector has traditionally been considered a pride of the european food industry. unfortunately, in the last two years it has been forced to make considerable efforts in an attempt to preserve its functionality and avoid bankruptcy. with today's vote, the european union is making its contribution to trying to prevent a new crisis in this sector, with all the consequences of losing the competitiveness of small producers and losing jobs. i therefore think it necessary to approve the proposals contained in the report, in particular the maintenance of the principle of flexibility in the contracting process, a measure which will allow small producers greater flexibility in production.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal on the package of measures for the dairy sector. i would remind you that from the beginning of this parliamentary term the european parliament immediately set about finding a solution to the crisis which had been going on since 2007. the announced abolition of milk quotas in 2015 provided the impetus for the institutions to find solutions to reorganise the dairy sector to cope with such a radical change. the high level group on milk (hlg) was then set up in october 2009 and the debate on what to do was officially launched in a difficult environment of continued excessive volatility in milk prices. i fully agree with the text that has been adopted, which is in line with the issues that have long been put forward by european milk producers and other stakeholders in the sector. we are therefore moving towards strengthening the bargaining power of producers, which can be achieved through new contractual conditions which are intended to give greater responsibility to operators in the milk and milk products chain so that, taking account of market signals, they can improve price transmission, adjust supply to demand and help to avoid certain unfair commercial practices.
in writing. − the crisis in the dairy sector in europe has been acute in recent years. a substantial change will certainly occur after the abolition of milk quotas, which is planned for 2015. in order to ensure a stable future for the sector, we believe that the bargaining power of producers needs to be improved. we hope that this can be achieved by using contracts and encouraging producers to join together in producer organizations. inter-branch organisations can play a useful role in facilitating dialogue between the various actors in the supply chain and in promoting good practice and market transparency. in order to ensure the rational development of production and thus ensure a fair standard of living for milk producers, their contractual power vis-à-vis processors must be strengthened in order to ensure a more equitable distribution of added value along the supply chain. measures to improve the transparency and comprehensive analysis of milk production data in the eu should replace the relative stability achieved in the past through supply management.
in writing. - i agree particularly with the statement that there are disadvantaged regions which are heavily dependent on milk production and in relation to which the guidelines for the milk and milk products sector, as recognised by the treaties, need to be evaluated so that support for and implementation of these policies continue to be adapted to their specific characteristics. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in recent years we have seen a number of issues affecting the dairy sector in europe: dangerous swings in demand, extreme price volatility, imbalances in the supply chain, all without forgetting the real problem that is at the root of all the industry's troubles: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. this system has proved to be profoundly wrong and unjust, and it has been particularly punitive, especially for producers: fortunately, the commission has also realised the error, albeit with a culpable delay, and the scheme will finally be abolished in 2015. the report under consideration proposes the right and necessary changes, aimed mainly at protecting the dairy producers, especially the smaller ones, and also encouraging the creation of consortia to protect excellence and quality products. for all these reasons i have therefore decided to support this proposal.
in writing. − following the crisis in the milk sector in 2008-2009 and the abolition of milk quotas from 2015, a high level group was set up to study the problems of the dairy sector. the report i voted for amends, in line with the recommendations of the high level group, the existing regulation on contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector. the contracting power of raw milk producers is strengthened and the possibility is given, through production planning, to place on the market pdo and pgi cheeses, produced in large quantities by the italian supply chain.
in writing. − given that the dairy sector will undergo a substantial change after the abolition of milk quotas in 2015, i am in favour of the use of formal written contracts which could serve to raise awareness and empower operators in the dairy supply chain to take account of market signals, improve price transmission, match supply to demand and help avoid certain unfair trading practices.
in writing. - today, at the plenary session of the european parliament in strasbourg, we voted in favour of the report by mr nicholson, which strengthens the contractual power of dairy milk producers. this legislation will allow milk producer organisations to negotiate the price for raw milk, in order to get the best possible price for their milk. producer organisations should help farmers to organise themselves better, strengthening their position in the food chain, especially in those member states where such a system is limited or non-existent. there will be more bargaining power without violating competition: in order to avoid unfair competition, the volume of raw milk will not exceed 3.5% of total eu production.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it adequately highlights the problems of unjustified price increases along the milk supply chain. all the operators concerned must be given greater responsibility and made aware of the need to keep final prices competitive with those on the market. we must now proceed in this direction: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. − in 2009, in view of the crisis in the milk market, an expert group was set up to discuss medium- and long-term agreements for the sector, with a view to abolishing milk quotas by 2015. this group pointed to an imbalance of bargaining power in the supply chain between producers and foundries, with the possibility of unfair trading practices. in particular, farmers often do not know what price they will get for their milk, as this is set by the milk companies after delivery. the failure of the milk quota system and the crisis in the sector have led to a number of amendments to the regulation. the proposal provides for the possibility of contracts between farmers and dairies, which will specify price, volume of deliveries and duration. producer organisations will be able to support farmers in negotiating contracts and setting appropriate quantitative limits. producers will thus be on a par with milk producers or dairies and there will be proper competition for the supply of raw milk. the volume of pdo and pgi cheeses entering the market will be monitored and consortia will be recognised, as the league of quality cheeses has been calling for.
in writing. - the control of the volatility of prices of eu dairy products is one of the prerogatives of this vote. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on milk quotas and the implementation of the union's policy on milk quotas. it was found that there is a problem of price transmission along the supply chain, mainly due to the lack of union legislation on contracts which are not mandatory in all member states. in order to ensure a stable future for the sector, the bargaining power of producers must be improved. it is hoped that this can be achieved through the use of contracts and by encouraging producers to join together in producer organisations.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree with the rapporteur's reasons and with the proposal to amend the text of article 48. the text should be adapted taking into account the interpretation of the conference of presidents on the authorisation phase.
in writing. - in the decision adopted today, parliament: 'takes note of the decision of the conference of presidents of 7 april 2011 that the own-initiative reports drawn up on the basis of the annual activity and monitoring reports listed in annexes 1 and 2 to the decision of the conference of presidents of 12 december 2002 set out in annex xviii to its rules of procedure (the 2002 decision) are to be considered as strategic reports within the meaning of the last sentence of article 48 (2) and instructs its secretary-general to insert the decision in annex xviii; "i'm not going to. furthermore, parliament 'considers that article 2 (4) of the 2002 decision has become obsolete following its decision of 13 november 2007 amending the rules of procedure of parliament in the light of the statute for members, and instructs its secretary-general to adapt annex xviii accordingly; "i'm not going to. i am in favour of amending that article to improve the procedure for own-initiative reports.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds in the european union. in such a crisis, the creation of a market for eurobonds, and in particular for stability bonds, could be a viable alternative to the us dollar bond market. however, member states must be held accountable and ensure the long-term stability of the euro. strict budgetary discipline and erga omnes compliance with the rules must be guaranteed. furthermore, i would like to stress that a sustainable fiscal framework is a necessary condition for joint bond issuance and must be aimed at both strengthened economic governance and economic growth in the euro area. i therefore welcome the presentation of the green paper on this subject, which i believe can provide a valuable starting point for further reflection and development on this subject, a solution which deserves careful consideration by the commission as to its impact, feasibility and effectiveness.
in writing. - i voted enthusiastically in favour of the motion for a resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds, in full awareness that the extraordinary crisis we are experiencing requires the courage to implement innovative financial measures and instruments. fiscal austerity and budgetary discipline are certainly necessary and indispensable: the most destabilising factor is the fragmentation of the stock market, which is currently subject to 27 different disciplines and regulations. but if we stop here, the risk of recession is very real. at the same time, to revive the european economy, it is necessary to support growth, development and employment. i believe, as has been done today, that opening the debate on the possibility of issuing joint bonds at european level is a step we cannot avoid taking if we want to achieve a market with greater liquidity and lower interest rates. we must absolutely overcome the reservations of some people, because the debt that would be created would be used to build european infrastructure, which is the key to the revival of europe's economy and competitiveness in this globalised world, which does not allow us to be left behind.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the resolution. the time is ripe for europe to adopt a common budgetary policy and a single bond market after the euro, which would make it possible to focus more strongly on the objective of stabilizing the sovereign debt market and allowing a reduction in the cost of financing for the member states. german reserves were initially understandable, but there are good reasons to exceed them, given that it is now possible to design eurobonds in such a way that they allow some countries to reduce the cost of debt, without increasing it for others.
in writing. - like many of my colleagues, i share the responses to the public consultation received so far and i applaud the european commission for presenting the green paper on eurobonds. we have long since asked the european parliament to submit a commission analysis of the feasibility of introducing stability bonds in accordance with various options. i think that the result we have reached can be considered as a useful starting point for further reflection. according to the resolution, eurobonds could become a source of stability for the euro area in the medium term, while - as we have already discussed - other instruments will be needed to resolve short-term issues. the text calls on the commission to propose swiftly possible instruments to deal with the current crisis, such as the european debt repayment pact and joint management of sovereign debt issues. the premise for the introduction of eurobonds remains, in my view, to reduce the risk of moral hazard and to make the european system more attractive, both to the higher-rated and the more indebted countries, by increasing competitiveness and introducing compulsory debt-reduction mechanisms, together with greater fiscal coordination.
in writing. - the unemployment rate has reached 23 million people, or 10% of the working age population, not to mention the fact that 22.1% of young people are out of work. europe needs a plan of concrete and immediate measures to counter these shocking figures. following up also the conclusions of the european council of 30 january, i believe that the fight against unemployment, especially among young people, must be a priority for the union, to be countered by immediate and thorough structural reforms, targeted employment policy strategies and measures to ensure the transition between education and work and to promote the flexibility of workers. similarly, to enable the eu to gain competitiveness, it is necessary to increase labour efficiency and productivity and to provide adequate support to smes. the european economic system needs a decisive and immediate response. the future of europe rests on the ability to reverse current trends by boosting competitiveness and reaffirming confidence in the union's growth potential. for all these reasons i voted in favour of mrs cornelissen's report.
in writing. − last november, the commission presented its annual growth survey for 2012, which sets out the eu's priorities for the next 12 months in terms of reforms and fiscal, economic, employment and social policies. the recent economic and financial crisis, followed by the deterioration of sovereign debt in the european union, has highlighted the need for stronger european economic governance to prevent large budget deficits and macroeconomic imbalances from threatening the euro and the european economy. however, although fiscal consolidation is necessary in many member states, i believe that policy orientations towards a general increase in austerity measures are not compatible with the strong employment recovery that the union urgently needs. the crisis has had particularly dramatic consequences for the conditions of young people seeking stable employment. although the annual growth analysis indicates youth employment as one of the priorities, i am concerned about the quality of jobs, traineeships and apprenticeships suggested among the policy guidelines. i take this opportunity to draw the commission's attention to the need to take action to ensure that the fight against precarious work among young people becomes a key element of the policy guidelines on youth employment.
in writing. - the basic view of this report, which is that austerity measures are a very harsh medicine to be imposed on countries in serious budgetary difficulties, is shared. the problem is the proposed recipe for solving the current crisis. we are talking about greater coordination of tax policies and more intensive community action on taxation. the report also calls for the protection of the most vulnerable groups, such as immigrants from outside the eu and the roma, who are more exposed to the effects of the crisis. i do not share these views, because to overcome economic stagnation we need productive energies and freedom for our small and mediumsized enterprises, not centralistic measures on taxation and taxation. nor can we focus on categories such as immigrants, when in fact they are the first of all our young people to lose their jobs, or not to find any at all. we must think of them first, so that our production system can offer them employment and earning opportunities that are not available now. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. - today we discussed and voted on the three cornelissen, gauzès and berès reports on the annual analysis of growth and employment, drawn up in line with the annual growth survey for 2012 proposed by the commission last november. i have supported the cornelissen report because i share its approach to the need for a profound european commitment at all levels, aimed at achieving the dual objective of economic growth and social protection. i also share the hope that this action can be pursued by acting consistently in fiscal and budgetary policies on the one hand and in social and labour policies on the other. moreover, although i do not believe in 'miracle recipes', i believe that the five 'priority actions' for 2012, identified by the commission's research and taken up by the report (tax consolidation, restoring the normal functioning of the credit market, growth and competitiveness, tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, modernisation of public administration), are the key to the economic and social development of the european union and are objectives that cannot be postponed.
in writing. - i would like to emphasize the most positive aspects of this report, which reflect well the position of the european parliament in the analysis of policies for growth and employment. it is of the utmost importance that the commission, the council and the member states take all necessary measures to ensure that the main objectives of europe 2020 in the areas of employment, education and poverty reduction are met; in particular, the level of youth unemployment in europe makes it urgent to activate specific measures and the report proposes a useful guarantee instrument for young people to ensure that they are offered jobs, traineeships and further training after a maximum period of unemployment of 4 months. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities is a very good one. finally, it is important to strengthen the role of parliament in defining the instruments for growth, and in this sense we have a clear request to the european commission to transform the annual growth analysis into 'annual guidelines for sustainable growth' for the coming years, so that we can table amendments.
in writing. - i would like to draw attention to the problems of employment, especially youth employment. the economic and financial crisis that started in 2008 had as its main consequence the closure of many productive activities and the loss of jobs for many european citizens. for this reason, europe's recovery from the crisis and growth cannot be achieved without the objective of starting from a strong employment boost. i therefore believe it is essential to identify concrete instruments which can translate the investment effort made at european level into results, such as, for example, the granting of incentives to employment and enterprises, strong support for the training and education sector, to be combined with a new system for managing public employment. i believe that work, especially for our young people, is a key priority, both for the future of our children and to ensure that inclusion and cohesion become the guidelines for an economic policy that will lead the countries of the european union out of the crisis.
in writing. - in line with the growth plans which put employment, competitiveness and the search for a solution to fiscal and financial policy at the centre of the debate, i voted in favour of mrs cornelissen's report. the labour market must be at the heart of the new european policies, and the risk of moving away from the european economic union as envisaged up to a decade ago is high. the fight against unemployment, employment, precarity and youth employment are the main objectives of the 2012 annual growth survey. these topics go hand in hand with fiscal policies and the economic crisis, but are therefore likely to be sidelined as a result of their dependence on them.
in writing. − given that unemployment has increased significantly since 2008 and has reached 23 million unemployed in the eu, and given that the labour market situation is particularly difficult for young people, i am in favour of integrating sustainable job creation through investment and tax reforms into the political guidelines for the 2012 european semester; to improve the quality of employment and the conditions for greater participation in work; addressing youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion by focusing on groups with little or no link to the labour market.
in writing. the measure is intended, as a shared objective, to denounce the social burden of the 'austerity measures'. in order to boost economic growth, the report aims to increase employment levels, particularly in support of young people and women, and stresses the need to overcome the increasingly widespread forms of precarious work. the rediscovery of traditional trades should be promoted in order to redistribute the labour force fairly, reduce the import of non-community labour and reduce the unemployment rate. the text, rather than dealing with the rights of community citizens as it should, emphasises the need to protect the rights of immigrants by promoting the social inclusion of roma. that is why i am voting against.
in writing. − the current international economic crisis has had a serious impact on many member states. we are talking about the cutting of jobs in the private and public sectors, the reduction in spending on social benefits and public services, and the worsening of poverty in the european union. this vote will give a boost to key issues for the future of europe. consistency and greater ambition are needed to achieve the europe 2020 strategy objectives, to support sustainable job creation through investment and tax reforms, and to improve the quality of employment and conditions for greater participation in work. at the same time, we must support and help the young generations who represent the future of europe, by seeking to reduce youth unemployment and investing more resources in education and training.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. the efforts of the member states and the community institutions must therefore be directed towards profound reforms in the areas of fiscal policy, financial sector stabilisation, growth and competitiveness, the employment and social consequences of the crisis and public administration.
in writing. − the presentation of the annual growth survey for 2012, as presented by the commission, lays a good foundation for the european semester. priority must be given to tackling unemployment, fiscal consolidation and the promotion of sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment, and to modernising the public administrations of the european union. immediate action is needed to support economic activity and employment in the medium term: to reach the eu 2020 targets, at least 17.6 million people will need to find a job. member states must do their utmost to correct their deficits within the time limits set by the council and bring them to a sustainable level. many areas require deep structural reforms, such as labour, pensions, social assistance and the fight against tax evasion. these reforms will have to be carried out through a coordinated approach, but also adapted to the specific needs of the member states. finally, i would like to stress that in the formulation of the broad economic policy guidelines and the ags, parliament should be given a leading role, through a codecision procedure, and not just a consultative role.
in writing. - the report in question is, in my view, a compilation of what has already been said and widely discussed and dealt with in other reports. the need for general or specific measures to restart the engine of growth in europe is recalled, some of which are certainly acceptable, others of doubtful utility or effectiveness. the problem is that the crisis is not being tackled from a different and innovative perspective than has been done so far by this europe, which, on the contrary, believes that a greater degree of centralism, 'more europe', can provide the solution to the current problems. the report does not address the prospect, which i would call appropriate, of a reduction in the community's powers, in order to give more freedom and space to the productive forces of enterprise and to small and mediumsized businesses which are the real engine of the continent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr gauzès. each year, the annual growth survey helps to define the budgetary priorities of the european union. in the light of this, member states must vigorously implement the economic policies to which they have committed themselves, measures which must aim at reducing debt and restoring competitiveness and a sustainable economy capable of creating jobs. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. investment should also focus in particular on research, education and innovation and support smes, which are the real pillars of long-term sustainable growth. finally, i think that it is useful to strengthen the coordination of macroeconomic policies and structural reforms in individual countries.
in writing. - today we discussed and voted on the three cornelissen, gauzès and berès reports on the annual analysis of growth and employment, drawn up in line with the annual growth survey for 2012 proposed by the commission last november. i have supported the gauzès report because i believe that the highlights of the work of the econ committee in drawing up its report are broadly shared. i refer in particular to the emphasis on the need to respond to economic challenges through concerted macroeconomic strategies; the need to pursue growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, differentiated from one member state to another according to the needs and characteristics of individuals; the need to guarantee long-term financing for the real economy and smes; the need to promote sustainable growth, education, research and innovation through more competitive financing and investment; the need to combat unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; the need to modernise the eu's public administration and services of general interest. we must be concrete, creating jobs with a plan for investment in infrastructure of european interest based on the issuing of debt by the eu.
in writing. - in adopting this report and the corresponding one drawn up by the empl committee, parliament has taken very clear positions vis-à-vis the commission and the council on the policies which, in a way that is now unavoidable, must be put in place to promote growth and employment. too many member states have lost sight of the main objectives of europe 2020 in terms of employment, education and poverty reduction, focusing only on the sovereign debt crisis and lacking the awareness that only medium- and long-term measures that can promote growth, such as those in education, research, innovation and energy, can respond to the difficult phase that the union has been going through for too long. the call for the introduction of project bonds to finance key infrastructure projects, as well as the call in the empl report for the introduction of a financial transaction tax, provide useful and no longer deferred proposals which this parliament is prepared to support. finally, the proposal to make the annual growth survey subject to a codecision procedure does justice to the key role that parliament can play in the debate on the future of european growth and in the definition of development policies.
in writing. the report voted on today has the merit of bringing the community's discussion on growth issues to the fore. as we know, the last two years have been marked by the economic and financial crisis, which has been the main theme of all political discourse. the objective of the member states has long been to fill the wounds caused by the crisis and, with the agreement adopted at the end of 2011, a common european response on the correction of public accounts has finally been reached. however, this cannot be enough to get the economy back on track: in my view, measures must be taken to enable small and mediumsized enterprises to benefit from european funding, to redefine the labour market by increasing the flexibility and mobility of workers, and to encourage enterprises to maintain current employment rates. the report we have voted on today is therefore an important step forward for the european union: priority is given to growth-friendly policies, to be achieved through action in the fields of education, research, innovation, infrastructure and energy, areas where the european union cannot afford not to be competitive with the rest of the world.
in writing. − i think it is necessary to emphasise some aspects in particular which can really contribute to the annual growth analysis for 2012. it is a text which, looking back at the year we have just begun, sets out the guidelines for an economic, social, political and financial budget. growth is the keyword of the european union's policy, the objective we must aim at to revive our struggling economy. we are aware of the need to act decisively and concretely in this direction and i am therefore very pleased with the recent statements made by both the council and the commission, statements which are in full line with what we have stated since the beginning of the year in preparing the guidelines for the 2013 budget. in this planning context, i consider the annual growth analysis for 2012, which has been approved today, to be important, and the study of which is, in fact, the starting point for this year's work.
in writing. − we believe that the solutions envisaged for the current financial and sovereign debt crisis in the annual review presented by the commission should be accompanied by a greater focus on medium and long-term measures to boost growth, as well as a reorganisation of the overall economic framework, in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success. the democratic legitimacy and national ownership of the changes that have been decided on in relation to future economic governance must be substantially increased. we have an opportunity today to strengthen the role of the european parliament in defining and implementing the procedures for monitoring economic policies in the context of the european semester, in accordance with the provisions of articles 121 and 136 of the treaty. finally, we are in favour of the creation of project bonds to help finance key infrastructure projects in order to promote sustainable growth and employment.
in writing. − i too, like the rapporteur, welcome the commission's annual growth survey for 2012, which provides a sound basis for this year's european semester. it is right that the solutions envisaged for the current financial and debt crisis should be accompanied by a greater focus on medium- and long-term measures to boost growth and a reorganisation of the overall economic framework in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the annual growth analysis sets priorities for action at national and eu level for the next 12 months, including for the achievement of the eu 2020 strategy objectives, which should be mainstreamed in national economic and budgetary decisions, in line with eu country-specific recommendations; efforts at national and eu level should focus on the following five priorities: 1) to pursue a differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation while ensuring economic recovery and job creation; (2) to ensure the long-term financing of the real economy; 3) promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment; (iv) combating unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; 5) modernise the eu's public administration and services of general interest. the fight against social exclusion and poverty must remain a key priority of all policies, together with differentiated and growth-friendly fiscal consolidation that ensures economic recovery and job creation in parallel.
in writing. - fiscal and financial policy, balanced budgets, and the resolution of the main problems of the economic crisis are the most important issues to be addressed in the analysis of the european union's growth. competitiveness, r & d and employment need a boost from the european economy which without targeted investment in these areas will not boost growth in 2012. the text in question is a good attempt at managing funding, as it gives priority to expenditure on education, research and innovation, thanks also to increased revenue from better tax systems. i therefore believe that a more efficient public administration is essential to the existence of a competitive economic environment that can stimulate growth by exploiting the benefits of membership of the european single market.
in writing. − given that the latest statistics show an increase in inequalities and unemployment in the european union, and given that most member states have lost sight of the main objectives of the eu 2020 strategy, i support the commission's analysis that efforts at national and eu level should focus on the following priorities: a differentiated fiscal consolidation favourable to growth in parallel with economic recovery and job creation; ensuring the long-term financing of the real economy; promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment; tackle unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis and modernise the eu's public administration and services of general interest.
in writing. − the solutions envisaged for the current financial and sovereign debt crisis should be accompanied by a greater focus on medium- and long-term measures to boost growth. the vote supports a reorganisation of the overall economic framework to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success. growth and work first. the growth prospects of all member states depend to a large extent on the resoluteness with which the debt crisis is addressed and on the effectiveness with which coordinated economic policies ensure a greater focus on investment for sustainable growth and job creation.
in writing. the text presented by mr gauzès is part of the package of measures voted today to try to deal with the crisis which has hit and continues to hit the union. the revitalisation of competitiveness and the launch of new macroeconomic strategies, together with the modernisation of public administration and the promotion of sustainable growth, are the basis for boosting the economy, combating rampant unemployment and promoting a return on investment in european industry.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president monti, you undoubtedly have a great deal of financial expertise, acquired in the operational field, in academic institutions, in small circles such as bilderberg and trilateral. it is no coincidence that you recently went to wall street to meet the masters of international finance who have reduced us to the state that all citizens of the union, and particularly of euroland, are well aware of, starting with their own wallets. i still doubt if he met his accomplices or his masters. he is an accomplice because, as a european commissioner for ten years, he shares responsibility for the economic and financial situation of the union. since he took office without a democratic election, he has been brilliantly plundering the taxpayers by assuming the role of paying official of international finance. you have defended and supported a conception of europe which does not belong to us and which we do not share, and you have, like your protector giorgio napolitano, repeatedly abused the kind of europe which cannot get out of the crisis on its own. but you two, and those like you who continue to spread falsehoods, do not see that there are countries with a western and democratic tradition, such as switzerland, norway, new zealand, canada and australia, whose citizens, without the union and without the euro, see an economy and finance that are much better than that of the united states. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report talks about the reduction of waste by the european parliament, but it does not mention the real waste, which we all know very well: the cost of having two parliamentary seats is at least 200 million a year, which, in a legislature, is a record one billion euros. i think that if the ordinary citizens of europe were aware of this situation, they would chase us with pitchforks. we cannot ask everyone to make sacrifices and throw away such a figure, without any benefit. i have tabled an amendment to that effect, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, with the support of almost all the political groups. let's see if we can at least get a strong signal in this direction. the danish presidency has already spoken out clearly against the double seat: i asked president monti the same question today, but he did not answer. the treaties can - indeed must - be amended and we can no longer submit to the scandalous and anachronistic french blackmail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult international economic and financial environment and the lack of strong european governance have highlighted the weaknesses of individual member states, many of which are demanding enormous sacrifices from their citizens in an attempt to avert a period of unprecedented socioeconomic dislocation. the key words that are imperative for the definition of the 2013 union budget guidelines are 'savings' and 'budgetary discipline'. i think it is appropriate to call for the spending cuts announced by commissioner lewandowski, which cap the increase in the commission's administrative expenditure at a maximum of 1.9 per cent, equal to the inflation forecast for 2013. parliament must follow the same line, by freezing its own administrative expenditure and all building projects, without falling into the temptation of supporting populist amendments. it will not be easy to respond to the attacks of those who do not believe in europe and have lost confidence in it. however, the union budget represents only 2% of total european public expenditure. we must therefore demonstrate that the union budget is able to add value to national public spending by supporting and complementing investment in those policies which are the basis of the recipe for emerging from the current crisis. providing strong responses through growth-oriented policies is our objective and proof of credibility for the financial year 2013.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, austerity on administrative expenditure and investment to support and promote growth: these are the key words in the 2013 budget guidelines. i would therefore like to join in thanking mr vaughan for the work he has done in a climate of great sharing and absolute cooperation. in this time of economic crisis, europe must make its voice heard. we need more europe and strong european governance, as well as europe's role, as has already been stressed, alongside the member states, in making all european citizens, through the member states, aware of europe's presence in support of growth. we must start doing this through budgetary choices and in the vision of the growth strategy of the union and of the individual member states. but i am beginning to think that the cuts will eventually have to be accompanied by the cuts that the citizens most expect and without which the spirit of europeanism in many member states remains very low. it's hard to explain to the citizens why we have two locations.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises from a petition submitted by the european blind union to the committee on petitions, which i chair, in which the signatories call on the european parliament to intervene to support the signing of a binding international treaty to guarantee blind, partially sighted and hard-of-hearing people free access to books in large-print braille and audio formats, produced in all countries and protected by copyright. only 5% of publications are currently available to this group of citizens. the request follows the position expressed first by the commission and then by the council against the possibility of signing this treaty. both european institutions have proposed agreements between interested parties in the european union, or simple recommendations on a voluntary basis, within the framework of the world intellectual property organization. this is certainly a weak hypothesis, which does not protect the right of a significant proportion of european citizens not to be marginalised. the severe restriction on free access to all publications has significant cultural implications, undeniable social consequences and, what is more, a negative impact on the intellectual recovery and the growth of the level of emancipation and independence of these citizens. important scientific studies have shown that, through the use of braille, even and especially if learned from an early age, the blind person can develop his expressive and communicative abilities for the formation of his personality. allowing more flexible copyright rules for works for the blind and partially sighted therefore means meeting the needs of an otherwise heavily discriminated group. the will expressed by the commission and the council seems to be contrary to the strategy for the disabled for 2010-2020 and does not take account of the indications contained in the report entitled 'cultural and creative industries: a potential to be exploited' which parliament voted in this house in may last year, in defiance of the prerogatives which are also protected by the treaties of this parliament. furthermore, it does not respect the principles enshrined in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and in the charter of fundamental rights of the union. it is difficult to understand why the commission should change its position on such a sensitive subject. many of the treaties to which the european union is a party deal with the regulation of intellectual property rights. a proposal for a treaty on this subject is currently being discussed before the copyright committee of the world intellectual property organization. it is on this point that we are calling for a review of the position expressed by the commission and the council, because we are celebrating today how these two institutions can discuss, at one table, a european anti-discrimination framework. the economic reasons for this can be discussed and a compromise can always be found. the fundamental principle must always be that economic considerations must never take precedence over the protection of fundamental rights. it is on this point that the committee i chair has decided to put a question to the institutions concerned, seeking to make the position of the commission and the council more appropriate, more coherent, more just than that which this parliament has already expressed recently.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to commissioner barnier, a recent survey published in italy shows that a blind or partially sighted person reads on average nine books a year, a very high figure considering that the national average is three books per person. furthermore, as many as 30% of these readers are regular readers. it is clear from these figures that reading is extremely important for people with visual impairments, and i find it truly absurd that these copyright problems cannot be easily overcome. the development of new technologies and digital formats should significantly increase the diffusion of the offer but the copyright problem often becomes an insurmountable obstacle, because of its costs which then negatively affect the decision of publishers and producers. i think that an agreement must therefore be reached as soon as possible to exclude this particular type of books for disadvantaged people from copyright law and that this agreement must be binding in order to avoid possible discriminatory situations. books are culture and visually impaired people must have the same rights as everyone else to enjoy this precious opportunity which, as i said at the beginning, is also very much used and appreciated by the blind population.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, what we are asking for is a new treaty regulating exceptions for the blind in respect of cultural works and books. it 's not charity . it is a fundamental right for access to culture. the european union, and in particular the commission, has not been particularly active: the european parliament has not done enough and has been, in my view, too conservative, almost to the point of boycotting the treaty itself. i am referring to the amendments tabled by the european union in november in geneva. we must move from fine words to concrete actions. voluntary agreements are not enough: it's a treaty we need. it is therefore necessary to remove the legal obstacles to the circulation and use of works in braille and in electronic format, the latter being particularly suitable for the visually impaired. the pretext that the treaty is a danger to copyright as such must no longer be invoked.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard a lot of strong criticism of the dutch government's policy on family reunification. these criticisms of a country which, in the full exercise of its sovereignty, is adopting more restrictive rules on such a sensitive subject and closely linked to the fundamental question of the integration of immigrants, call my attention to what emerges from an official government document, which will be presented in rome today. this is the eighth report on immigration by the cnel - a constitutionally respected body in my country - which shows that the regions and provinces in italy where integration has been best and most seriously achieved are those in the north, and particularly in the north-east: i am referring to the regions - veneto, for example - where a movement is being governed which many in this house consider to be xenophobic, such as the northern league. this makes me believe that it is precisely the adoption of strict rules, of a serious filter on immigration, that will lead to the realization of integration. this is not an opinion of one party, but an official document of the government, of constitutional rank in my country. let us, then, examine these proposed rules. are these rules of the third reich or rules of reason? when an immigrant is asked to prove that he has a job, a certain economic stability, etc., in order to obtain family reunification; when you call for strict measures to be taken against the shameful fraud of forced or arranged marriages, you are simply calling for european standards. we want rules that are compatible with european legal civilization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that family reunification is a substantive, serious and concrete issue. the welfare of the family must take precedence over everything else, although it is undeniable, of course, that this right must be subject to rules. in my view, the 2003 directive contains valid rules, which must nevertheless be applied in a uniform and homogeneous manner in the territory of all the member states. the commission has therefore very appropriately launched a serious debate by publishing a green paper which sets out a clear vision: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the family reunification process is carried out in a way that is not discriminatory. i am a rapporteur on a dossier on information and communication technologies, on the transfer of workers from third countries to establishments in both third countries and europe. in this specific case, a more favourable derogation was approved in committee to ensure family reunification in practice, which is certainly a political priority for the group of the european people's party. of course, language is important, and it is important that the european agenda on migration - again, this is a matter of legal immigration - takes account of this absolutely just and concrete directive. the commission's aim must be to urge the member states to provide for rules which are actually applied and, at the same time, to ensure that the right to be together is actually recognised and that no one can impose any restrictions on it. the aim of the epp is to ensure that the 500,000 potential beneficiaries of this standard are duly taken into account by the member states.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr menendez del valle, which i welcome, is a very important document in the context of the efforts we are making, in the committee on international trade and in parliament as a whole, to define new rules and to give a different impetus to trade in the mediterranean. this is an essential task and one of the great challenges, taking advantage of the european union's exclusive powers in international trade to respond to those countries which still have a large untapped potential in terms of trade policy towards us. it is not just about bringing more stability and prosperity but also about broadening the social and productive base of those who can benefit from trade policy. in my view, this convention should have three important effects: to encourage south-south trade, which is now at almost minimal levels in the mediterranean area; to promote market access for small and mediumsized enterprises, so as to achieve what i call as rapporteur for another measure, 'trade for change', trade measures for the countries in the process of democratization in the southern mediterranean a liberalisation of economic and trade processes in countries where the few oligarchs in power have concentrated the proceeds of trade in their hands; finally, to make this trade more readable through simple rules. the problem of israel must also be tackled, otherwise the credibility of this parliament is lost. this is important work: we often wonder why we have only now succeeded in simplifying the more than 100 different rules governing rules of origin. what is important now is a swift ratification by all. what is happening with regard to the ratification of the mandate of the european investment bank for the mediterranean is not very encouraging, as the member states are proceeding very slowly. we hope that the same delay will not occur for the convention.
mr president, no one is unaware of the political importance of the convention under discussion today. the european union is a reality: but further integration within the old continent and between the old continent and the rest of the world bordering it is an indispensable condition for strengthening this region in the new global balances. once again, a modern discipline of trade relations can be a high point of mediation between those who believe that europe must primarily have an atlantic vocation and those who believe that new balances in the mediterranean are essential in building the democratic europe of the future. this convention brings together in a more comprehensive multilateral, albeit interregional, logic all the different positions currently in force concerning the origin of goods traded with the countries participating in the barcelona process, the efta states, the faroe islands and all the states participating in the balkan bloc's association and stabilisation process. this legal instrument will make it easier in the future to use the pan-euro-mediterranean system of cumulation of origin and thus to grant preferential treatment to customs tariffs for mediterranean goods, although it is regrettable that there is no revision clause and no uniform provisions for the settlement of disputes. for this very reason, the convention can be an important element in the effective resumption of the process begun in barcelona almost twenty years ago, to which initiatives of varying degrees of conviction, varying degrees of effectiveness, but certainly not of little importance, such as the union for the mediterranean, the trade roadmap decided precisely in the framework of this process, refer. we have set ourselves an ambitious objective, but it is now being slowed down by the still too strong imbalances between the two sides of the mare nostrum, by the political instability still affecting the middle east - which must see a greater effort by the european union to push israel to comply with international agreements relating to the occupied territories - and by the uncertainties of the process of the arab spring in north africa, all of which are still major open questions requiring a stronger political and diplomatic initiative by the european union.
mr vice-president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, i have been committed to defending the gmes programme since i arrived in parliament and now i feel the need - after letters, oral and written questions, resolutions, meetings, debates, hearings and newspaper articles - to remind those who seem to have forgotten about it of the benefits of this programme, as listed in a publication published by, among others, the nereus network of european regions. here are some of the sectors that the eu will put at risk without gmes: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment, the environment and sustainable development, which sets out the main priorities for the eu's action plan for the environment and sustainable development. i would add to this the support, particularly to the african countries, of all the technology currently needed to manage the environment. given this non-exhaustive list of gmes merits, could you, commissioner barnier - who i am convinced is a proponent of the benefits of gmes - explain to us who and why does not intend to make the gmes programme work as it has been so far? why is the commission hiding behind council decisions when we have evidence that at least eight major countries have asked for gmes to be reinstated in the mff? who, and why, is insisting on an intergovernmental approach with an agreement that would make parliament's control of one of the most important space programmes much more difficult, rather than easier, as provided for in the lisbon treaty? let's count on friends from gmes: whether the commission agrees and claims to follow only what the council orders and whether the council agrees in substance; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the regions are able to use gmes, but it is true that in this crisis gmes is one of the few sectors where jobs are still created and our european industry is still competitive. parliament has already expressed its full support for gmes on several occasions. commissioner barnier, please tell those in the commission and its departments who are against gmes that it is time to stop it. we must work for europe and its young people to make their future less hopeless. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a blue-card question. mr president, it is clear that this is possible and it is also one of the data that gmes can provide constantly. in any case, i was referring to africa as a whole continent, which needs these supports and whose additional cost is small for us while for africans it can represent the prospect of great progress and participation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission has certainly made a serious mistake and, as you will have realised today, parliament is almost unanimously calling on it to correct this mistake. the vote on this will be very significant and i hope the commission will take this into account. gmes is a european programme of great excellence, which cannot be relied upon to finance intergovernmental agreements. some states have already expressed their views on this change of course. this programme is of fundamental political, strategic and technological importance for europe. we cannot lose our independence or our technological advantage and leave the space to the superpowers of the united states and russia. it would also create a serious imbalance between member states. we must act quickly to ensure that planning and investment are timely. we often talk about growth, innovation, scientific research, advanced technology, investment in industry and quality employment. well, gmes has all of that. we often discuss in this parliament the fight against climate change, environmental degradation and desertification. we also discuss civil protection and security, sustainable development, mobility, crisis management and aid to developing countries. well, gmes is indispensable to all of this. a programme left in the middle also means throwing out of the window important investments already made, and in these times when the value of budgetary discipline has been rediscovered, that would be very serious. if the construction of europe is to be democratic, the commission must listen to the voice of parliament and the council. one final thought: in order to maximise the investment from the community budget, industry may also be involved in a public-private partnership operation.
commissioner, i think you are facing a rather unusual situation today. you have before you a whole committee - the itre committee - which, together with the speeches of many colleagues, asks you to clarify certain issues: a major project is being discussed, one of those which like galileo and iter qualify european policy, beyond and above individual national policies; a cross-cutting shared project, as you may have noticed; the commission has already financed and even implemented part of the project. in the face of such a situation, parliament's concern and bitterness at the fact that the commission seems - and i hope that this word can continue to be used - to have decided to abandon the project, transferring to others - in particular to the member states, at such a difficult time - the will to pursue the project itself, effectively depriving this house of the power to examine the new regulation, as was decided in 2010, is more than justified. i hope that commissioner barnier and the commission will choose a different path.
member of the commission. - mr president, i heard mrs sartori say a moment ago that i was in an unusual position, not very comfortable, but that is the law of the land when you are a commissioner, since i have to express my convictions and even do so on behalf of my colleague, mr tajani, and on my own behalf, both on the usefulness of this programme and then also explain the budgetary difficulty in which we are and which gives rise to your criticisms and remarks. firstly, i was minister for the environment in my own country, as mrs dati and mrs de veyrac know very well. these are subjects that have long interested me, and i am very committed to civil protection issues. so, mrs ţicău, mrs hall, mrs băsescu, mr luhan, mrs foster and you, mr prodi, were right to point out the major strategic importance of a programme like gmes for everything related to prevention, the right conditions for repairing certain disasters, climate change management, environmental management. mr prodi, you were right to point out that some of the most fragile countries, including those on the vast african continent - i mentioned haiti, which i know quite well, and which i am very attached to after the major natural disaster it suffered - are certainly among the most favourable and most appropriate for using all the tools that gmes offers. there's no doubt about that. there is no doubt about the determination of vice-president tajani, on whose behalf i speak, and of the commission, to commit themselves to major projects. in all that concerns, madam de veyrac, the independence of europe and industrial policy, i would like - and i say this in my own name for the moment - for us to find the same audacity as the founders of the ecsc, the galileo project, which some have mentioned, or gmes in industrial policy. i believe that europe must once again become a production base and not merely a territory for the consumption of products made in china or the united states, and i shall have occasion to repeat this in other circumstances. so, mr abad or mr tatarella, ladies and gentlemen, there is no question of abandoning or interrupting this programme which must be the subject - i quote mrs de veyrac - of a clear, strong and reasoned commitment. that's our line. that said - the importance of this programme, its strategic nature and the commitment of vice-president tajani - we have a budgetary problem. you have to tell it like it is. i say to rachida dati or mr marinescu, to mrs swinburne: why has the commission proposed to finance this important programme outside the multiannual financial framework? simply because of its cost. in addition to the financial effort made for galileo, which we fully own, this choice cannot currently be supported solely by the budget of the european union simply because of the budgetary constraints we have to take into account. the time needed to reach and maintain the operational level of this programme is well beyond the period covered by the financial framework. for this reason, the programming and implementation of the gmes programme cannot follow the same logic as that of other european union programmes for which the strict application of the rules and limits of the financial framework remains in force. i was naturally responsive to your call. as you have asked, i will inform president barroso and my colleague tajani of your request and your wish. i was very moved, mrs swinburne, by your vibrant call for community funding. i would like to remind you that what is proposed - and i say this to mrs hall - is to follow a similar approach to the one we have already taken for the european development fund, which our legal department has confirmed is completely legal. i would like to say to mrs ţicău, as well as to mrs hall, that the current proposal from the european commission provides for a fund which should be funded by all the member states of the union, since gmes benefits all 27 member states of the union in an equitable way. i'll pass on your message. i would like to say to mr prodi, who is still very much interested in these environmental and gmes issues, that it is true that these eight member states you mentioned have, officially, in a letter to the commission, asked for gmes to be reintroduced into the financial framework. i note with no ill will, but to be objective, that some of these eight member states have also written to us asking that the european budget be kept within the strict 1% of gdp limit and even reduced. we therefore have this difficulty in our dialogue, which explains why, at present, no agreement has been reached between all the member states in the council. a joint decision could not be reached in the council on competitiveness and this will be discussed again in the near future. i would also like to say to mr remek, mr marinescu and mr abad, who have all spoken of space policy, that there is a rather different approach to two subjects which are part of this great space issue: galileo and gmes. galileo or egnos are owned by the european union, so it made sense that we would continue to finance them globally and collectively. this is not the case for gmes, since the development phase was co-financed by the commission and we do not own the infrastructure. i'm aware that these answers will not satisfy you. they are the object of this contradiction between the industrial, spatial and economic ambitions we support and the budgetary constraints we have to take into account. in any case, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of vice-president tajani, i will convey to my colleagues your question, your criticisms and your expectations on this major subject.
mr president, i asked for the possibility of adding to amendment no 6 at the end of the paragraph after 'european parliament' the following sentence: 'if the impact assessment shows objective difficulties in the areas covered by the agreement, the commission will have to take this into account in the context of the review of the cap;'. this is to meet the concerns of the agricultural sector.
mr president, during the economic and financial crisis it became clear that the individual national deposit guarantee schemes in europe were experiencing problems in a number of cases. in addition to increasing depositors' distrust, the consequences of a bank's insolvency were borne by the state and, ultimately, by the taxpayers. i therefore believe that it is right to adopt measures to achieve a much better protection of depositors which, taking into account the differences in the various european banking markets, can establish common requirements for all deposit guarantee schemes, firstly the respect of the right to be protected up to eur 100 000 and the short deadline for the payment of deposits in the event of repayment.
in writing. - mr simon's report brings to parliament an important legislative dossier, which covers some important aspects of bank deposits and the bank guarantee on them. the current financial crisis has created a climate of understandable distrust of banks and financial institutions, to the extent that the commission considered in 2010 to revert once again to previous directives governing this matter, given the delicate situation many banks are experiencing as a result of the financial turmoil. the proposal is intended to amend and replace old directives by introducing uniform rules for the protection and guarantee of bank deposits. this directive will introduce uniform criteria to restore the minimum level of confidence that citizens and businesses have in banks, which is now at an all-time low. my vote is in favour of the report.
in writing. the position expressed by parliament is broadly shared. one of the priorities must be to prevent future demands on deposit guarantee schemes. for this reason, preventive action and surveillance must be put into practice. it is also necessary to ensure a coordinated and transparent assessment of the business models of old and new operators, based on a common approach agreed with the european supervisory authority. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i wanted to express my vote in favour of this report, since it is especially in times of crisis and economic recession that savers must be best protected against the risks of bank insolvency. in such cases, there is a risk of a dangerous race to the bottom, with destabilizing effects on the whole credit system. this text lays the foundations for a common system of bank deposit guarantees valid throughout europe, in such a way as to avoid the risk of possible market distortions. the proposed threshold of eur 100 000 seems appropriate to me, as does the need for a rapid timetable for any repayments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - unfortunately, no agreement was reached at the trilogue, so today we voted on the text approved last july in the econ committee at first reading, paving the way for second reading. that text is partly acceptable, but i think that other aspects, such as the contribution threshold and the repayment periods, need to be improved. i hope that the commission will present a balanced text at the second reading. the text, as voted by the econ committee, contains criticisms of the italian system, which has been maintained during the recent crisis, both as regards the financing system and the methods of financing the fund. i therefore voted in favour of the four amendments tabled by mr ford (ecr), which leave the member states discretion as to the methods and system of financing the gbs.
in writing. − banks are special financial intermediaries because they finance themselves through deposits, which are redemptable on demand and without loss. the longer maturity of bank assets makes it difficult to repay deposits in the event of a sudden and simultaneous withdrawal request from depositors. the 'race to the top' can spread to other banks and undermine the stability not only of the banking system but also of the whole economy. to prevent this risk, a growing number of countries have set up deposit guarantee schemes, following the example of the united states. deposit insurance has proven effective in preventing bank panics but weakens market discipline on management and shareholders and creates moral hazard. the commission considers that the measures in question are imputable to the state and that the measures in question are imputable to the state. the lack of attention of depositors may encourage the bank to choose riskier uses, as it will keep the profits but any losses will be borne by the deposit guarantee fund and, if this is not enough, by the taxpayers. i hope that the adoption of the text voted on this morning will achieve the objectives of homogenisation with a one-size-fits-all approach.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr vaughan's report setting out the guidelines for the 2013 budget because i share many of the points it makes. at a time of severe economic crisis, when member states and local authorities are demanding sacrifices, sometimes heavy ones, from their citizens, i believe that the european union must do its part and set an example in controlling public spending. i fully support the call for structural and organisational reforms to be continued in order to contain and reduce the costs of running parliament, also in view of the increased expenditure that full integration of croatia will entail next year. certain proposals in the report, such as the freezing of travel budget lines and the suspension of the indexation of members' allowances, will certainly need to be considered and carefully evaluated. i also think that the controversial issue of the double seat of parliament, which forces us to make an expensive trip every month, should be addressed. in the light of these findings, however, i think it is important to ensure that any discussion does not slip into populist and demagogic drifts, which would damage the image of the union without making a real contribution to saving.
in writing. - it is entirely acceptable that, in the face of continuing economic difficulties, the institutions should set an example of austerity and rigour, first by freezing their own administrative budgets. it is an effective, as well as a practical, way of being credible in relation to the sacrifices we are asking our fellow citizens to make every day. the achievement of savings by strengthening interinstitutional cooperation, sharing best practice between institutions and modernising human resources, technology and environmental policies can and must become a strategic objective for the community institutions. the opportunity of this vote, however, allows us to reiterate once again and more forcefully that - the need for drastic action to cut unproductive expenditure - must be countered by the need to multiply efforts to free up and make available as many resources as possible to get the global economy moving again as soon as possible and to give hope to those who today easily give in to populist anti-european sirens. the assessment of the institutions which govern them by the citizens of europe will depend on their ability to be sensitive to the needs and difficulties of the present situation and, even more importantly, on their ability to devise appropriate policies to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i believe it is of paramount importance, especially in the current austerity climate, to continue to demonstrate that the european institutions are acting responsibly, making real savings and respecting appropriate budgetary rigor. for these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. − the rapporteur is right to point out the substantial savings achieved in the 2012 budget through structural changes and reorganisation. so, in addition to encouraging the continuation of structural reforms, it is good to start thinking about saving in the long term. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i am very pleased that today the absolute majority of members of this parliament have approved the amendment i tabled to emphasize the impossibility of continuing to have two parliamentary seats. i hope that this text will now reach the council and the member states as soon as possible. we can 't keep hiding behind a finger: we are talking about cuts and reductions when we ourselves are complicit, against our will, in the greatest and most absurd waste of all. i would have liked, however, to have had two other amendments tabled by my group accepted today: the commission has already made a number of proposals, including one to stop the huge and incomprehensible funding of european political parties and foundations and another to make the purchase of buildings by the community institutions conditional on a vote of approval in the house. we in the northern league have remained consistent as always, in defence of rigor and transparency: other parties may prefer to draw on european funding and be complicit in shady real estate maneuvers between brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg.
in writing. − following the structural changes and the internal reorganisation of the european parliament, we have seen that a large margin of savings has been achieved in the management of the 2012 budget. the objective for the 2013 budget to continue on the same line in avoiding waste in view of the period of economic difficulties i find fully favourable. the attempt to freeze the budget of the european institutions is a saving, but this saving must not, of course, have a negative impact on growth and development projects. we must therefore work on a budget for parliament's expenditure in order to have good budget forecasts which do not harm investment sectors and which limit waste exclusively.
in writing. - today, at the plenary session of the european parliament in strasbourg, we voted on the report by mr vaughan. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. in order to contain spending and find further savings, it was decided to look for "overlaps between budget lines and inefficiencies". individual allowances for members will be frozen until the end of the parliamentary term and budget lines related to travel and staff will also be frozen at least at 2012 levels.
in writing. − in a context of continuing economic difficulties, i believe it is essential for the institutions to strengthen interinstitutional cooperation, making considerable savings also through structural changes and internal reorganisation. today more than ever budgetary discipline must be strict, especially by all the international institutions, which are called upon to be particularly vigilant against any kind of waste and mismanagement.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that in the text of the report on the 2013 budget other sections, a specific reference is made in one paragraph to the progress of croatia's accession, to be taken into account when the budget for the coming year is established. after a long process of rapprochement with the european chapters, croatia will become a full member of the union on 1 july 2013, when all 27 current eu member states and croatia have ratified the accession treaty. already earlier this year, the country held a referendum on membership. during the ratification period, croatia will, however, continue to make progress in implementing the treaty and the commission will monitor the progress made. until accession, croatia will participate as an observer, without the right to speak, in most council groups and council sessions and in meetings of the european council and in commission committees. this will enable croatian representatives to become familiar with the working methods of the eu institutions and to participate in the decision-making process. i therefore welcome this budgetary orientation for next year and hope that it will be retained in the final text.
in writing. - any fish can be processed into flour and oil. however, the target species of industrial fisheries are generally those not intended for human consumption and therefore of low commercial value. these are small-sized species, mainly cod, norway lobster, sprat and watermelon, but other medium-sized species are also caught, such as the sugarcat, which we are discussing today in the house. industrial fishing is fishing activity the production of which is used for purposes other than human consumption. the european union is also concerned about taking measures to reduce by-catches of species such as haddock and whiting for human consumption. the bulk of the production is carried out in an industrial process which, after grinding, cooking and pressing the product, separates solids from liquids: the solid material is crushed and turned into flour, while the liquid material is treated for the extraction of fish oil. as cod is the main stock of fish for this use throughout the european union, i think it is appropriate that, for sustainable exploitation and maximum long-term yield, we should once again be concerned here in parliament with maintaining a strategic sector for many european locations.
in writing. − the fisheries sector makes a major contribution to europe's economic growth, not only because of its main activity, which places it fourth in the world in terms of production, supplying 6.4 million tonnes of fish per year. it is therefore right to ask the commission to take a holistic approach to the sector, particularly with regard to the reform of the cfp, rejecting reductionist perspectives, which not only undermine the direct and indirect benefits of the sector but also ignore the wider range of benefits it offers. my vote on the joint resolution is in favour.
in writing. - i believe that the contribution of the european fisheries sector to europe's economic growth is crucial, not only because of its main activity, which places it fourth in the world in terms of production, but also because of its contribution in other sectors. fisheries now represent an economic and social added value, contributing to the food security and self-sufficiency of the european union on the one hand, and to the development of several regions of europe that are highly dependent on it, in particular by providing jobs for more than 350 000 people. the multi-purpose nature of the fisheries sector and its production of public goods ensures social and territorial cohesion and promotes vocational training and socio-economic dynamism. finally, due account should be taken of the full integration of the fisheries sector into the europe 2020 strategy, recognising this common policy as a development engine in the context of the european growth project.
in writing. - a survey by scientific experts of over 54% of mediterranean fish stocks shows that these resources are being overexploited. the mediterranean regulation, which aims to improve fisheries management in order to achieve sustainable fishing, protect the delicate balance of the marine environment and bring fish stocks back to safe levels, came fully into force on 1 june. but it is not reasonable to think that regulations or the european union can alone ensure the management of fisheries in the mediterranean. the participation of all mediterranean countries, including my own, is crucial, and the eu is actively working within multilateral organisations, including the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean and the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, to improve scientific knowledge and ensure a level playing field for promoting sustainability. at the same time, it is essential to preserve local fishing traditions and coastal habitats in order to maintain the long-established population, which often lives off the fishery itself as their only resource. i therefore call on the european decisions to take account of both aspects: sustainability and local development.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because we must take a strong position and reiterate once again our serious concerns on the situation in hungary in relation to the exercise of democracy, rule of law and protection of human and social rights. most of all i am deeply worried about the independence of the judiciary in hungary. it is unacceptable that the new head of the national judicial authority and the chief prosecutor will have the right to assign cases to tribunals, infringing the principle of the right to access to court and to a fair trial. the hungarian prime minister, in front of the european parliament, expressed his readiness to comply with the recommendations and objections raised by the eu institutions in order to respect the basic values and standards of the european union. with this resolution we clearly state that we cannot accept further delays.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution by the left on hungary because i consider it to be a shameful hoax, also because of the openness of the hungarian government to the remarks made by the european commission. the adoption of such a resolution may also have the opposite effect, undermining the confidence of the hungarian people in the european union. this is a situation to be avoided, especially in this period of growing euroscepticism. more generally, we are facing a political attack that is entirely instrumental against a government that was legitimately elected by a large majority and that is proudly defending the rights and sovereignty of its people.
in writing. − the situation in hungary since the introduction of the new constitution on 11 april 2011 is of direct concern to us and requires urgent action. the new hungarian constitution, as revised by the venice commission, risks undermining the rights of citizens in various areas of social life. in particular, the independence of the judiciary is threatened and, again, political interference in decision-making and legislative as well as judicial processes seems too strong. this is also reflected in the freedom of religious expression, which is undermined by the new law on the registration of churches, which requires the approval of two thirds of the hungarian parliament. it is a set of provisions and political choices which have led to the european union initiating infringement procedures and which require us members of parliament to continue along this path in respect of the values we are called upon to represent here in europe and in each of our member states.
in writing. - today, at the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on the resolution on the recent political developments in hungary. parliament expressed its concern at the situation in hungary as regards the exercise of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. parliament will prepare a report to assess whether eu democratic standards are being respected; the commission will then decide whether to activate article 7 of the eu treaty, which checks whether there is a 'risk of serious breach' of community principles.
in writing. - hungary has recently adopted a new constitution, which was voted by a large majority in parliament. this document, which replaces the previous communist constitution of 1949, also incorporates the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we are voting to emphasize that there is no danger to democracy in hungary. each member state has the sovereign right to determine its own constitution, and this principle corresponds to the sovereignty of the people in the context of self-determination through democracy. it is desirable that the hungarian government cooperate closely with the european commission to ensure that the new national legislation is in line with union law and, if necessary, to make changes. but that said, there is no danger to democracy in hungary.
in writing. − with this resolution we express our concerns for the forthcoming russian presidential elections in march and we ask for compliance with international standards. according to the osce reports and to the golos (the domestic election observation organisation) statements, the duma elections of december 2011 were neither free nor fair and were marked by lack of independence of the administration, partiality of the media and state interference at different levels. in addition to that i strongly condemn the crackdown of the police on peaceful demonstrations protesting against election irregularities reported by international observers. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and of the osce and has therefore committed itself to the principles of democracy. for all these reasons the russian authorities must urgently reform the electoral laws in order to guarantee free and democratic presidential elections with equal opportunities for all candidates.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in russia, as i share all the concerns expressed about the fairness and democracy of the very important election in a few weeks' time. russia is a key country on a planetary level, and unfortunately, incidents of widespread irregularity continue to occur whenever the russian people are called to the polls to decide who will be the tenant of the kremlin or what the political composition of the duma will be. it is important that our assembly reminds moscow of the need for party pluralism, pluralism of information, fair electoral consultations and a general reform of electoral and political party legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the forthcoming elections in russia because i believe that fruitful and useful cooperation with this important strategic partner cannot be without a shared respect for democratic principles. i take note of the osce reports that the recent parliamentary elections were not entirely free, and i join in the hope that the next presidential elections will be marked by greater transparency, and in the call for the european union to act on these hopes by promoting a smooth and transparent conduct of the elections. pluralism is in fact at risk of being compromised by the exclusion of certain candidates, which appears arbitrary and not entirely justified. the reforms of the political and party system announced by outgoing president medvedev are a step forward in this regard, but further action is needed to complete the country's democratic transition. the european union has a duty to monitor and support russia's efforts in this direction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on russia because, given the eu's geopolitical importance as an energy supplier and economic partner, i believe that a further effort should be made to protect freedom of information, to fight corruption and, consequently, to hold free elections. the eu must accompany russia in its process of democratization, but it must not lend itself to those who, for reasons of internal policy, want exclusively to criminalize the current government.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the joint resolution. the european parliament must not let its guard down and continue to press the russian government to introduce a package of legislative proposals, in line with the osce recommendations, aimed at developing a genuinely democratic political system, including reforms to simplify the rules for the registration of political parties and presidential candidates, and to address the problem of their restrictive application, so as to allow genuinely free and fair elections to be held as soon as possible.
in writing. − the resolution of the parliament for which i voted in favour on the situation in russia following the duma elections of 4 december 2011 and the forthcoming presidential elections of 4 march 2012 is a warning from the eu to respect the democratic rules of one of the most important countries in the world. the outcome of the december elections was heavily contested, with protests over alleged electoral fraud leading to statements by russian president medvedev about a comprehensive reform of the political system. what i think is important to stress is that the peaceful demonstrations that have taken place there are nothing but the expression of the will of the people to have free and fair elections, elections which russia is obliged to guarantee as a member of the osce and the council of europe.
in writing. - analysts say it is inevitable that there will be talk of alleged fraud in the duma elections last december, as also denounced by the repeated mass demonstrations. with this statement, i hope that the people's demonstrations will be taken into account and seen as a positive sign of the progress of democracy in russia. according to the kommersant newspaper, on the day of the vote, some opposition groups demonstrated in central moscow against the election, calling it irregular and rigged. police arrested about thirty activists on red square, while another hundred people were detained in triumfalnaya square. by looking at how many people have taken an interest in free and fair elections and made their voices heard in the streets, we can understand how russian society is modernizing and democratizing. these signs are exactly what we have always wanted to see, and we must therefore encourage these developments in the interests of the russian federation and europe.
in writing. - i voted against the joint resolution tabled by four groups, as it was in favour of approving the eu-morocco agreement on agricultural and fishery products. the resolution expresses a position of open support for an agreement which goes against the interests of our farms and our producers, who will see even more intense competition from products from morocco. moreover, as if that were not enough, this agreement does not help moroccan producers either, but only safeguards the interests of a very few large multinational groups operating in morocco in the agricultural sector.
in writing. - the agricultural liberalisation agreement, as it has been conceived, would have a worrying economic impact on european farmers, especially in the fruit and vegetable sector, with dramatic repercussions on employment in rural areas of the european union. for example, if 55% of european imports from morocco were immediately liberalised, many fruit and vegetable products typical of italian territory would be threatened by the entry into the european market of products obtained under more competitive conditions. we must take into account that moroccan farmers not only face production and labour costs that are far below those in the eu, but they are not even required to meet the same production standards in terms of environmental and food safety. it is therefore appropriate to carry out an impact study on the possible economic and social consequences of such liberalization before it is implemented. i hope, therefore, that there will be a willingness to proceed with a revision of the proposed agreement which safeguards the principle of reciprocity and the possibility for our farmers to compete in a competitive situation which is, if not equal, certainly sustainable.
in writing. - i voted against the eu-morocco agreement today, which provides for reciprocal liberalisation measures for agricultural products, fish and fishery products, as it raises many concerns about the negative consequences of its application on our agricultural and agri-food system. it has become clear that the agreement is much more favourable to morocco than to europe, particularly as regards the fruit and vegetable sector, and that within europe it is more favourable to the production of the continental countries than to that of the mediterranean countries. if the agreement is approved, customs duties will be reduced or eliminated, particularly for fruit and vegetables, which means that certain typical products from morocco could enter the european market on more competitive terms than at present. it is well known that the cost of labour in morocco is much lower than the average european wage, and in particular that in italy, and that there are still many gaps in the application of fundamental rights in the country and that there are no guarantees that food security is based on principles and procedures which are quite similar to ours.
in writing. - i wish to state the reasons for my negative vote on the text of the resolution just voted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in an already economically and socially difficult environment for european agriculture, a liberalisation agreement of this kind would have a catastrophic impact on european farmers, particularly in the sensitive fruit and vegetable sector, with dramatic repercussions on employment in rural areas of the european union. if this agreement were to be concluded, there would be a considerable increase in products from morocco, with the introduction of import quotas much higher than under the previous agreement, specifically for six products: tomatoes, cucumbers, cucumbers, garlic, citrus fruits and strawberries. it is also necessary to take into account the different production standards in terms of environmental, phytosanitary and quality of products originating in morocco and that the european system of entry prices for such imports does not take into account the production and labour costs specific to the eu. for these reasons i voted against the measure.
in writing. - i voted against the report, as i am absolutely opposed to the approval of the eu-morocco agreement on agricultural products and fisheries. it is an agreement which is totally unfavourable to our agricultural producers, an agreement which, moreover, does not guarantee any reciprocity and which facilitates the invasion of moroccan agricultural products into our markets to the detriment of our own production. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action in the field of agriculture. more and more products will be imported into europe from morocco, where production and cultivation are carried out at very low cost and without respect for social standards, often with the use of child labour. products will enter our markets that do not meet the same quality and safety standards for consumers as european producers are required to meet. finally, the agreement will not bring any improvements for the moroccan counterparts either, because very few large agri-food groups would benefit from the situation, certainly not small and medium-sized producers.
in writing. - i voted against this agreement, which i consider inadequate and, above all, disadvantageous for italian agriculture, particularly the fruit and vegetable sector. unfortunately, the logic of national alignment has prevailed, which, as has already happened in other sectors, favours the large industries of northern europe to the detriment of those of the south, particularly those in the mediterranean area. the committee on agriculture, fisheries and food has also expressed its concern about the situation in the baltic sea. the crisis and the indiscriminate increase in the cost of fuel in italy - which has a strong impact on the price of agricultural products - also mean that we risk creating a war between the poor. the quality and safety of imported products is also important, since the guarantees that will be given are not, in my view, sufficient.
in writing. - the agricultural liberalisation agreement, as it has been conceived, would have a worrying economic impact on european farmers, especially in the fruit and vegetable sector, with dramatic repercussions on employment in rural areas of the european union. for example, if 55% of european imports from morocco were immediately liberalised, many fruit and vegetable products typical of italian territory would be threatened by the entry into the european market of products obtained under more competitive conditions. we must take into account that moroccan farmers not only face production and labour costs that are far below those in the eu, but they are not even required to meet the same production standards in terms of environmental and food safety. it is therefore appropriate to carry out an impact study on the possible economic and social consequences of such liberalization before it is implemented. i hope, therefore, that there will be a willingness to proceed with a revision of the proposed agreement which safeguards the principle of reciprocity and the possibility for our farmers to compete in a competitive situation which is, if not equal, certainly sustainable.
in writing. - i voted strongly against the eu-morocco agreement on the reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural and fishery products. the agreement unfortunately approved today is a debacle not only for sicilian agriculture but for european agriculture in general, for which much has been done and much is still being done in terms of quality protection, consumer guarantees and support for agricultural producers to be increasingly competitive on the market. all this has been trampled underfoot today by a vote in favour of opening up europe's frontiers to an economy, the moroccan economy, which is not required to respect the same rules on trade and consumer health protection as those which must be respected by the operators of the agricultural and fisheries sectors in europe. there are many difficulties facing the agricultural sector in many parts of the union and i do not think that today we have reached a result shared by our farmers, to whom i personally, together with all those who opposed this agreement, can only reiterate my commitment to working to ensure that the controls on products imported from morocco are strict and to restore the greatest possible guarantees to themselves and to european consumers.
in writing. − the opening up of markets and progressive integration into the internal market of the european union are the only effective instruments for the development of the countries of the southern mediterranean and can help to alleviate the phenomena of poverty and unemployment which are at the root of the recent uprisings in the middle east. for these reasons the european union must be prepared to grant sufficient trade concessions. my vote on the joint resolution is in favour.
in writing. - this agreement best sums up the european union's unfortunate and self-destructive trade policy. with today's approval we shall be witnessing a real invasion of moroccan agricultural products, which will risk dealing the final blow to many of our country's fruit and vegetable excellences. it is absolutely impossible to compete with a country like morocco, where the cost of labour is much lower and where children are often employed. i wonder what the european union can gain from this agreement: the only beneficiaries will be the large multinational farming companies which have already relocated or will soon do so. i do not think that there will be any great benefit for the simple moroccan farmers, nor for the thousands of small and mediumsized farmers in the southern european countries, for whom the consequences would be devastating. i voted against this proposal, but unfortunately the usual european commercial logic has prevailed today. i can 't imagine where this is going to take us . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i voted against the eu-morocco agreement on the liberalization of agricultural products and fisheries, as did the italian delegation of the epp. the italian position is against ratification of the agreement because it is against the interests of european producers in the mediterranean countries, in particular farmers and fishermen in the southern regions of italy. in particular, such an agreement, although broad in scope in view of the opening up to the countries of north africa, would create major problems for all those small private individuals who risk losing their competitiveness on the market for agricultural and fishery products. i would stress, however, that my vote against the agreement is not a vote to close it, but to open it up in defence of the european market, and that is why i am proposing, together with my italian colleagues, an agreement with gradual liberalization in each sector in order to reduce the possible negative effects of the agreement.
in writing. the agreement between the european union and morocco on reciprocal liberalisation measures only affects one sector: the european one. the same committee on agriculture of the european parliament has expressed a different opinion because so many fruits and vegetables will be able to enter europe freely from morocco, paying less tax than ours. europe will suffer a loss of eur 21 million if the duties on agricultural and fishery products from morocco are reduced or eliminated. this amount will only increase because imports, no longer being taxed, will increase exponentially, exposing european producers to unsustainable unfair competition. the agricultural workers in morocco earn 5 euros a day and it is therefore obviously unthinkable for our producers to compete with similar costs. for these reasons, i voted strongly against it, because i have always supported zero-mile products for the sake of quality and the good of consumers.
in writing. since march 2011, when peaceful protests were suppressed by the army, more than 4,000 people have been killed and 14,000 have been imprisoned for political reasons. not only that, but at least 400 children lost their lives, and some 380 others were arbitrarily arrested and beaten to death. according to the un report on the syrian arab republic of 23 november 2011, the syrian armed forces subject children to physical and psychological torture, even leading to death, and horrific sexual violence, either in person or indirectly involving them as witnesses. the vice president, are you aware of this? what measures will you take to prevent further torture and sexual violence against innocent children and to put an end to violations of human rights, respect for human dignity and the integrity of freedom?
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i value its aim to express our deepest concern at the gravity of the human rights violations perpetrated by the syrian authorities. mass arrests, extrajudicial killings, arbitrary detention, enforced disappearances, torture and ill-treatment of detainees must end. the first step to be taken by the european union is to draw up a black list of companies that deliver arms to syria. all eu actors must fully respect the european union code of conduct on arms exports. it is of fundamental importance to repeat that for the international community the syrian regime has lost all its credibility and legitimacy and that president bashar al-assad must step aside immediately, so as allow a peaceful and democratic transition to take place in syria.
in writing. the resolution condemns in the strongest terms, as in the past, the abominable use of violence by the syrian regime to suppress the bloodshed of the population. i share the call of our assembly for assad to leave with his ruthless government, to give the syrian people a chance to have a different future, despite the concern that syria may fall into the hands of other brutal political figures. we condemn with this resolution the russian and chinese vetoes at the un, which have prevented a faster solution to the syrian crisis, and rightly call on russia, the main arms supplier to the assad regime, to immediately cease the sale of military supplies to damascus. my vote on the resolution, which is broadly shared, is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in syria because i share the concerns expressed about the serious acts of repression which have been taking place in that country for many months. demonstrations by those calling for reforms to further democratize syria are constantly and brutally suppressed by the armed forces, which on government orders respond with torture, mass killings, and the bombing of towns and villages, as reported by un reports. i join the call on the syrian government to cease all violence against civilians, and to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms which have been denied for too long. i also support the call for the european union to make greater efforts in the international arena to defend the oppressed syrian people, so as to ensure a common position within the united nations assembly and in particular the security council.
in writing. - the situation in syria is becoming increasingly serious. since march 2011, when the violent crackdown on peaceful protesters began, the systematic killing, violence and torture have escalated dramatically, and the syrian army and security forces continue to respond with targeted killings, torture and mass arrests. according to united nations estimates, over 5,000 people have lost their lives. immediate, independent and transparent investigations into these widespread violations must be carried out to ensure that all those responsible for these acts are held accountable before the international community.
in writing. - for too many months now, we have been watching impotently all kinds of violence in syria; the ruling regime has dramatically lost much of its support within the country, and is therefore reacting with the typical methods of those who are at the end of an era of absolute power and who do not want to accept the reality of the facts. in these situations it is always desirable to find a political solution to the matter: the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. the middle east has always been a very critical area, and instability in one country can have negative repercussions for the whole region. we must therefore act as soon as possible to try to resolve the situation: i think that the european parliament has done well to express itself in these terms today, and that is why i supported the joint resolution.
in writing. the resolution adopted by the european parliament on the situation in syria shows us the reality of events in a country which, because of the power cravings of its 'dictator', is in danger of falling into a full-blown civil war. in addition to the eu, which is ready to recall all accredited ambassadors in syria and freeze diplomatic contacts with syrian ambassadors in member states, the king of jordan and turkey have also called on assad to step back. i hope that the international appeal will reach russia, in the hope that it will stop selling arms to syria. russia together with china should give up its veto on the resolution presented by the un security council to unblock the syrian dossier.
in writing. − in the light of the continuing deterioration of the situation in syria, the eu's efforts to increase pressure on the assad regime and to try to relaunch the diplomatic initiative, in conjunction with the arab league, following the security council veto, continue. the eu has been saying since 18 august that assad has lost all legitimacy and must step aside, a position which has been repeatedly reiterated by us in the european parliament. the list of persons subject to restrictive measures was extended in november, and again on 23 january, by the foreign affairs council (now comprising 108 individuals and 38 entities), in parallel with the suspension of eib loans to syria. sanctions in the oil and investment sectors were adopted in september and strengthened on 1 december, with measures also added on telephone and internet interception equipment. the further extension of the eu sanctions package is currently under consideration, with the impact on the civilian population to be minimised. we hope that the repression will lead to the rediscovery of democracy in the country.
in writing. the european union cannot remain indifferent to the violations of human rights and civil liberties in countries which have recently achieved democratic emancipation. the union promotes respect for fundamental rights and democracy in the world and is legally bound to respect them by the eu charter of fundamental rights. it must therefore work to ensure that the protection of these rights is a priority in the activities of the united nations and therefore provide full support for the actions undertaken in this regard. i welcome the work of the un human rights council and hope that the next meeting of the council will conclude with further progress in this area. i hope above all that the deadlock that has developed within the security council over the situation in syria will be overcome soon. unacceptable human rights violations are taking place and the international community cannot remain silent. thousands of prisoners are subjected to torture and sexual violence every day, including some 400 children. we cannot allow such violence to continue or to be repeated.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it stresses parliament’s strong support for the eu’s active participation in the work of the un human rights council and the importance of holding common positions on the key issues that will be discussed during the 19th session of the council. it is fundamental to underline that, with regard to human rights issues, all international actors must work for the elimination of double standards and for the avoidance of selectivity and politicisation. for these reasons, with this resolution we express our concerns regarding the persistence of the practice of ‘bloc politics’ which continue to affect the selection of the countries receiving the unhrc’s attention. this practice indeed is having a negative impact on its authority and credibility. in view of this i also believe in the necessity, for the eu and its member states, to ensure that human rights are fully respected in internal policies, in order to increase consistency between internal and external policies and to enhance their moral authority on the international scene.
in writing. − respect for, promotion of and safeguarding the universality of human rights are an integral part of the european union's ethical and legal acquis and constitute one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. the ongoing review of the eu's human rights policy should therefore help to make its foreign policy a more active, coherent and effective force in the world. in this context, i agree with the eu priorities for the 19th session of the human rights council. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - during the 19th session of the human rights council in geneva, direct accusations were made against syrian president bashar al-assad. the un high commissioner for human rights, navi pillay, has spoken clearly about indiscriminate attacks on the civilian population. she said she was particularly struck by the continuing carnage in homs. since 3 february, in a continuous wave of attacks, the government has used tanks, mortars, rockets and artillery to strike the city of homs. the eu is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. since we intend to intensify diplomatic pressure on the regime and against assad's campaign of violence, i would not be surprised if there were tougher decisions on targeted sanctions and perhaps the very occasion of this human rights council could bring the international community together to condemn the actions of the assad regime. i would like to conclude by pointing out that the report we have been examining this morning makes no reference to the assad regime.
in writing. − the european union has adopted the european disability strategy 2010-2020 with the aim of promoting and achieving the social integration of disabled people into society and ensuring their full enjoyment of rights. i am convinced that to this end it is advisable to reach a binding treaty within the world intellectual property organization (wipo) that strikes the right balance between respect for copyright and the enjoyment of rights by people with disabilities. i therefore join the questions put by mrs mazzoni on behalf of the peti committee: does the commission really believe that its initiatives are consistent with parliament's wishes for a binding treaty within the wipo framework, as called for in the report 'cultural and creative industries, a potential to be exploited'? does it therefore consider that european law is in conformity with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, in particular on the basis of articles 21 and 30, and with the obligations laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union regarding the fight against discrimination against persons with disabilities?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on access for visually impaired people to printed products and books, as i believe that member states should change their international behaviour in this area. europe must urge states to do all they can to achieve the signing of an international treaty at wipo that is binding on the parties, and that finally allows for greater distribution and dissemination of bibliographic material translated into languages or printed in ways that are understandable to the blind and visually impaired. until now, the states have opted for the possibility of signing a non-binding treaty, but a change of perspective is necessary, otherwise the objective, which is nothing but the implementation of already existing international conventional standards on the rights of the disabled, will never be achieved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution proposed by mr mazzoni on the basis of petition 0924/2011 because it refers to a problem which is widespread throughout the eu, namely the limit imposed on blind people in accessing books and other printed products. at present, due to restrictions imposed to protect intellectual property, only 5% of publications are available in braille, large print, audio and electronic formats. blind, partially sighted and reading-impaired people are denied access to a great many works and are thus discriminated against by other citizens. i believe that culture is a value that cannot be put on the back burner. i also firmly believe that reading is a right of all citizens, and that this activity that enriches each of us and our society cannot be denied to those citizens who cannot read in the traditional way. i believe that the technological development and the possibilities offered by new technologies must be made available to the public for the benefit of the citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to provide a solution to a problem which affects almost all blind people. and just think that as much as 95% of the works, to date, are not converted into braille or into formats suitable for use by people who are visually impaired or blind. the failure to reduce this percentage has been compounded, so far, by the difficulty of finding an international treaty that can reconcile the transmission of content for the visually impaired and the blind with respect for copyright. in the spirit of solidarity and cooperation in breaking down barriers for disabled people, we must raise the threshold for blind people to have access to publications and mark the crucial milestone in ensuring equal access to culture for all.
in writing. − given the limited access to books for blind people in the european union, i support supporting a binding wipo treaty on copyright in books and printed matter for blind and partially sighted people. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − access to books and other printed products for blind and partially sighted people in the european union is severely limited, with 95% of all published works never being converted into 'accessible formats'. in the absence of international legal rules providing for a specific exception to copyright rules for the crossborder distribution of formats adapted for the benefit of individuals with reading disabilities, the copyright committee of the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is considering an international treaty to improve access for persons with such disabilities. so far, no legally binding text has been adopted at european level, favouring non-binding recommendations instead. i therefore welcome the european parliament's call on the council of the european union and the european commission to support a binding wipo treaty on copyright in books and printed matter for blind and partially sighted people.
in writing. the motion for a resolution voted today stems from a petition by a european citizen - in this case the british - who was the first to call for greater guarantees on access for blind people to books and other printed matter. the world blind union and the european union of the blind have already proposed an internationally binding treaty within the world intellectual property organization providing for a specific exception to copyright. whereas in the european union, access to books and other printed products for blind and partially sighted people is severely restricted as much as 95% of all published works are never converted into 'accessible formats'. it is time to speed up the pace of the process of ensuring that the blind have access to all the cultural offerings available in europe.
in writing. − the adoption of this report is necessary for the entry into force of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean rules of origin. the convention contains rules which in future would govern the matter of preferential origins in products packaged in the countries party to the convention, namely eu, efta, north african and eastern european and balkan countries party to the stabilisation and association policy. such a convention, which contains rules which are potentially harmful or misleading for our quality products, does not bring any particular benefits to our production, whereas it is of great benefit to the countries of north africa. in addition, there is no guarantee that the regulations are being properly applied in the southern mediterranean, nor is there sufficient guarantee of administrative cooperation and the correct issuing of certificates of origin in those countries. the convention also does not provide for mechanisms for settling disputes or for clauses for reviewing or revising the text of the convention. i therefore vote against.
in writing. - the regional convention on preferential rules of origin, while presenting a precise and well-detailed system of rules, contains within itself some critical aspects which i believe should not be underestimated. the text does not contain any system of guarantees to ensure that the competent authorities of the north african states involved in the agreement comply with the rules, nor does it provide for mechanisms for settling disputes. the total absence of any review or revision clauses in the convention is also noted. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. - in line with the barcelona process, the convention we voted on today is intended to anticipate the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area, which will also define the pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin, which have hitherto been the subject of specific trade agreements. the adoption of a single and simplified instrument will make it possible to facilitate the use of the pan-euro-mediterranean system of cumulation of origin. the adoption of this new legal instrument will certainly provide a potential incentive to increase south-south trade and contribute to economic growth, economic diversification, poverty reduction and democratisation in the region, as well as to promoting social, commercial and economic integration between the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean. this single instrument will have the advantage of including not only the traditional southern mediterranean countries but also the participants in the stabilisation and association process and the efta states, thus creating a wider geographical area of cumulation and a wider outlet for cumulated exports. we are aware, however, that the conclusion of this convention must necessarily be followed and consolidated by other more ambitious projects aimed at improving and promoting trade in the region.
in writing. - i voted with conviction in favour of the resolution on the future of the gmes programme because i share the concerns about the survival and continuation of this project. gmes is one of the two flagship initiatives of the union in the space sector and is of key political, strategic and technological importance in monitoring climate change, preventing environmental disasters, managing emergencies and organising mobility and energy exchange. it therefore leaves the commission's decision to exclude gmes from the multiannual financial framework and its proposal to finance it through intergovernmental agreements in doubt. although many governments in the council have already expressed their support for the programme, the risk that opposition from certain countries could wreck it and make all the efforts and investments made to date worthless cannot be totally ruled out. it would also be detrimental to the exclusion of parliament from the decision-making process and therefore to the absence of democratic participation. i hope that the commission will reconsider its position and decide to heed parliament's call for the reintroduction of gmes within the multiannual financial framework. i personally believe that this can be achieved through the use of a public-private partnership to maximise the investment of the community budget, as has been done for the sesar project.
in writing. - the importance of the gmes programme has been repeatedly stressed in numerous and heated parliamentary debates. its role is crucial in ensuring europe's independent access to earth observation information. we must not forget that accurate and timely information about our planet is essential to ensure safety, to alert citizens to disasters or to simple air quality deterioration and to mitigate the effects of climate change. gmes provides the necessary geospatial data, ensuring its full reliability and verifiability, through harmonisation and comparison at european level, it is therefore necessary to ensure that this important programme receives adequate long-term financial support to prevent any discontinuity in the receipt of data and, ultimately, a dependence on space infrastructure of third countries to the detriment of european industries linked to the sector. i hope that the european commission will present as soon as possible a new legislative proposal for the governance, funding and operation of the gmes programme with the aim of ensuring its full and effective operation from 2014.
in writing. − i am pleased to have contributed to the adoption of the text on the future of the gmes programme. we have been discussing the financing of this rather controversial programme for some time in the committee on budgets. i believe that financing gmes outside the multiannual financial framework (mff), as proposed in its communication by the european commission, is not a feasible option, as also stated in one paragraph of the text. while i understand that the gmes programme is one of the initiatives on which there is a large investment by the european union and that the programme plays a key role in earth observation, i would simply stress the fear that funding for gmes could subtract important investments from other budget lines.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the conference of presidents i asked that the vice-president/high representative's speech on maritime piracy include a specific reference to the case of the two italian seamen detained in india. i do not see it here, but i think that, having decided it at the conference of presidents, it will be done that way. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fukushima tragedy has shown that there is still no absolute safety of nuclear power stations after chernobyl. it is true that the cases are very different: as regards chernobyl, it was an internal accident at the plant; as for fukushima, the causes were external, an earthquake and a tsunami of unprecedented intensity among the highest that have occurred, at least from what is known from the history of the planet. this, however, raises serious doubts about the safety of nuclear energy. i am not one of those who say that, in view of the accidents, we must absolutely abandon nuclear power, even though in many countries this seems to be the way forward, but in any case a thorough reflection must necessarily be developed, taking into account, as has been repeatedly said, that the responsibilities are those of the national states but parliament must also have a say. and i would like to conclude by expressing my condolences and solidarity with all those affected by this catastrophe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, beyond relations, equality is achieved by a profound change in the mentality of individuals, by social and collective awareness and the importance of the role of women in the institutions. it is achieved through a cultural and social effort rather than through laws, although, of course, we need laws to help working women, we need family policies, we need laws to reconcile working time with family time. what is absolutely unnecessary is what the european union wants, or what the european union seems to want, namely to set as its objective the recognition of the homosexual family at european level. i do not agree with what i read in the first report. parliament regretted that some member states had adopted restrictive definitions of the family in order to deny legal protection to same-sex couples and their children. well, yes, in italy there is no legal protection for the homosexual family simply because it does not exist. if the european parliament and the commission think, after having imposed so many absurd directives and regulations, that they will also change the definition of the family, they are wrong: a family is a man, a woman and their children! (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer to a question with a blue card is: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not deny that the rights of homosexuals must be protected, what i do deny is that in italy there are no homosexual families, and there never will be, simply because the family to be protected - the one that the european parliament should also protect - is the traditional family: the one made up of a woman, a man and their children. that seems pretty basic to me. this is the reality in italy and in the other 22 countries. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer to a question on the blue card is: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in italy, i am sorry, but families are made up of a man, a woman and children. that is, i'm sorry, but if you think otherwise, you're obviously misinformed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to make this clear: i think that i personally have some doubts about one aspect of the report, but i would not express myself as mr bizzotto has, in the sense that it seems to me that the report goes a little beyond the duty of the european union, which is to say, not when it describes the existence of different realities of coexistence, of the family, etc., in different forms, but when it says that the european union must somehow enter into what is a family right which still holds to subsidiarity. as regards homosexual families, i would like to make it clear that homosexual unions certainly exist in italy, homosexual unions also exist with children, but homosexual unions are not equivalent to the status and legal status of the family and this is permitted in the different freedoms of the member states. i think that is the point that needs to be made. it is not denying reality, it is denying legal equality in this case in my country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that taking stock and setting more advanced targets for equality between men and women - in this march 2012 - means facing up to the dramatic data of the economic crisis, which is seeing an increase in female unemployment, especially among young women, an increase in poverty among women and an increase in violence against women, especially in the private sector. there is a situation of suffering, exacerbated by the cuts in welfare, education and social security systems in many countries, which have hit women particularly hard. i believe there is a link between this situation and the continued exclusion of women from decision-making and therefore an underestimation of the impact of the crisis and policies on women. in this context, the two reports focus on a number of shared objectives: a stronger orientation of the programming of the 14-20 structural funds towards actions also targeting women; economic independence, including the promotion of women's entrepreneurship through guarantee funds and support instruments; closing the gender pay gap by reassessing women's professionalism and work; the prohibition of discriminatory behaviour - for example in my country, the preformed resignation. we also call for rules and measures to allow a rebalancing of representation with transparent selection procedures for men and women in politics and decision-making and for commissioner reding, as she has announced, to really get parliament's support for a directive on quotas in enterprises. we must also act on a symbolic level, not only by countering stereotypes in the media, but also by promoting the value and respect of the dignity of women, which is too often commodified and violated. i regret that mrs t. veld has proposed an amendment to remove this reference to the dignity of women, perhaps failing to grasp the fact that the degradation of their image becomes a justification for violence against them. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too will quote many of the figures which have already been discussed: women represent more than half the european population, but they suffer from many disparities in treatment and, of course, in pay. this terrible figure of 17.5% less average pay than men is truly unbearable! a woman will have to work 14 months to earn what a man earns in a year! this has to be seen in the light of another fact which concerns the merits of women: 59% of graduates are women! the european institutions are not immune to inequality either, although they have always attached great importance to the issue of equal opportunities. in the european parliament itself, the figures are contradicting good intentions, with 34% of the seats in this house currently held by women. since the beginning of the legislature, the number of female vice-presidents has gone from 6 to 3 out of 14, while the number of female chairpersons of committees and subcommittees has now fallen from 10 to 8 out of 22. since 1952, there have been only two women presidents out of 28, simone veil and nicole fontaine, and in the administration women - although 60% of the staff - actually only 23% have a significant role. so there is still a lot to be done from the european parliament and the question is: how can we set a good example for the member states with the statistics i have just mentioned? i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner reding for her efforts, including the opening of this important consultation, and i also share her views: i do not believe in quotas either, i have always thought that women should stand out for their qualities and merits, but it is right, madam commissioner, that the debate should be open and i thank you for that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the participation of women in the political decisionmaking process at all levels is essential, since it allows for the adoption of concrete measures to facilitate women's activities in their difficult task of reconciling private and working life. without women's participation in policy-making there is no necessary sensitivity to women's specific issues and attention to their discrimination - both in access to employment and to childcare facilities for their children. to address this strong imbalance in women's participation in politics, i support the introduction of quotas in the electoral lists, i don't like them, but i like the result that quotas can bring and have brought in recent years: just a few days ago, on the occasion of international women's day, a draft law was adopted by the committee on constitutional affairs of the italian chamber of deputies which provides for the obligation to include 30% of women in electoral lists in municipalities with more than 5 000 inhabitants. this is therefore a great step forward and i hope that it can be accepted by the other member states as a best practice. increased participation of women in business and leadership positions, particularly in company boards and supervisory bodies, must be achieved. numerous studies have shown that the increase in women in these positions contributes strongly to the competitiveness of firms and to profit growth. and this also seems to be in line with the kratsa report which we voted on a few months ago in this very house. i share the european commission's view and i am glad to congratulate commissioner reding on launching a public consultation to examine the possibility of proposing legislation on gender quotas in enterprises. i hope that the european parliament can be a model in this respect, that it can increase the participation of women in the next term of office 2014-2019 and i hope above all to make colleagues like nuttall, who is not present in the chamber now, believe that in this parliament only three women are worthy of being vice-presidents, i do not think so and i wanted to ask him in fact what strange country he lived in. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the two rapporteurs, these two reports from the committee on women come the day after international women's day and if on the one hand they testify to the incessant pressure work that parliament is doing to promote equal opportunities, on the other hand, however, they also certify the ineffectiveness of the same in this legislature in which parliament has voted about 10 reports on the subject, almost one every two and a half years. the result? the data provided by the report: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. what is the solution? the two reports are linked precisely where their combined reading provides a first answer to the problem: there are few women in decision-making positions, few really positive actions to promote equal opportunities. i fully agree with the call from many quarters that we should look at the merits, but do we really think that the present composition of decision-making bodies, which is so uneven in its gender composition, is the best possible qualitative composition? i do not think that quotas are the best possible solution, but for the time being it is the only one and those who dispute this solution must also consider making alternative proposals. i therefore support the pietikäinen report. the report by mr veld, however, has a number of criticisms: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly production of agricultural products. this charter simply reaffirms the principle of subsidiarity and recognizes rights which are already recognized by the constitutions of the individual states and the case law of the court of justice of the european communities and the european court of human rights. the charter, after guaranteeing the right to life for every individual, after article 9 recognises that the right to marry and to found a family must be governed by national laws, then talks about discrimination in a later chapter, where it talks about equality. perhaps if the rapporteur really wanted to support equal opportunities she should have referred to article 33 of the charter of fundamental rights, which guarantees the protection of the family as a legal, economic and social framework, and to this end also the protection of systems for reconciling family and working life. i am thinking, for example, of the recent case of rai in italy, which shows how important it is to work on this front and not the other. for these reasons i think it is necessary to delete those parts of the report which affect the 't veld report and to give more force to that part which is rightly prescriptive. in each country the debate on the recognition of civil unions is open, and this continuous interference by the european parliament only produces defensive reactions and slows down the work being done at national level. i think that we should all make an effort here to do better the things that are in our competence and try to produce some more results to really recognize gender equality and build a truly more democratic society. thank you, sir.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, ms in ’t veld and ms pietikäinen. they have given us the basis for a very animated debate. in this chamber i have often criticised the fact that there were very few men in the chamber during debates on women’s and gender equality questions, but i must say that tonight was a first. there were many more men than usual. it is good that this debate – where both sides are heard, where people have different opinions, because it is a question of society and not a question of women alone – is led by men and by women. i think we all agree that there are many challenges and that the challenges have not become less but that problems are growing. where we do not agree is on the measures to be taken in order to change this situation. mostly we do not agree on what should be done at european level and what should be done at national level, although very often the two have to be combined. so i really need the support of parliament in order to go forward in those areas where there is a very clear european competence. i need the help of parliament to continue to raise awareness about the very large number of inequalities and to take the measures that are needed to change this situation. by the way, i would like to tell you that all commissioners are aware that in their portfolio the balance between men and women needs to be tackled. one example i could give of how european law and national action have to be combined is the question of the gender pay gap. several members who asked this question are no longer in the chamber but, at any rate, i think it is important that i tell you this. we do have a european directive on equal pay for equal work, and there was a very interesting hearing concerning that problem last week in parliament. the result of this hearing was that, where the directive is applied by national courts, direct discrimination is no longer very high. we are going to review this directive, analysing, with a report in the coming months, how it works and in which countries it has made quite a difference. but there are very many problems of indirect discrimination. women earn less because they make up the majority of people in part-time work and because they leave work when they become mothers. fathers do not leave work when they become fathers. a majority of those in underpaid jobs are women. that explains the gender pay gap. one of the conclusions of the hearing was that we desperately need transparency rules to be applied in the member states. some member states have acted on this but most have not. we need to go a step further in regard to this problem. so you can see that, while sometimes a european directive solves problems, other problems can only be solved at the level of the labour market, at the level of the social partners working together and at the level of national governments introducing transparency rules. i need the european parliament to encourage those organisations in civil society which help us to make progress happen. in the last year i have seen that many of those have a lot of energy and action. i will give you the latest example which i found when i started to look at the reasons why there were so few women at decision-making level in our economic world. the business schools of europe united their forces and last wednesday they presented a pool of 3 500 women, highly qualified in studies and in experience, in top management, who are ready to be put on the boards of any big listed company. they have helped us to show that the women are there and that we just need to use the talent which is available in society. they also need our help in order to understand that the european parliament helps them to go in this direction. this brings me to the point where i really do need your help as well, namely with the measures seeking to reach the point where qualified women are no longer blocked by the glass ceiling and where their talent is not lost to the economy as is happening today. some of you have said that on the boards of the largest listed companies in europe we have a de facto male quota, because 86% of the members of these boards are men. and where are the women – those 3 500 for instance who were put forward by the business schools? we have to help this talent to express itself in the interest of our society and of our economy. i also need your help in order to help those forces in the political parties which fight for a better representation of women on the electoral lists. we all know, through party political experience, that this is not very easily done. that is why all those who try to do this need a strong european parliament that says yes, we will go for equality in the representation of men and women as well. only with a balance between men and women in our national parliaments and in our european parliament will we have a real democracy and a real equilibrium in policies which can be achieved for the good of our society. i am personally absolutely convinced that only in a society where equilibrium is reached between men and women can we have a real development both in societal terms and economic terms. we need both. so please, parliament, vote massively tomorrow.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 13 march 2012, at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. equality between women and men is an indisputable achievement of the modern age. its foundations are equal human dignity and universal recognition of human rights. unfortunately, there is an unacceptable contradiction in the report under discussion today which radically changes its meaning. human dignity and human rights concern all human beings and therefore also the most fragile, weak and poor. the right of women to have an abortion, the equivocal concealment of this right under the claim of sexual reproductive rights (which in themselves deserve all recognition if they are not considered to include a right to destroy the life of an unwanted child) is unacceptable. that is why i cannot vote for the report. i would add that equality between men and women does not mean equal identity and that motherhood is a sign of a capacity for acceptance (what may be called the "female genius") which man does not have. in this sense, women can lead the way for all mankind towards the goals of freedom, justice, peace and solidarity. but to be themselves, they must not walk alone, but with all the weakest of the earth, starting with their children.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to join in the warm greetings of mr lechner and also in the appreciation of his work, which has been carried out with competence, tenacity and determination: i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the council and the commission are not left to the decisions of the council and the commission. i see that there is a unanimous consensus in favour of it. turning to our regulation, i too am convinced that it is an important matter, perhaps it is not news in the newspapers, perhaps it is not considered high politics, but the construction of the european union also involves working to satisfy the interests of citizens in their daily lives and above all those millions and millions who, living at the expense of the different states, are faced with practices that are difficult to solve, boring and sometimes touch the sensibilities in the heart of a family that politics generally finds difficult. the european union should be proud to have such attention at its base. the solutions that have been proposed are clever and novel ones, for example, the possibility has been given to those who have to make a will to choose between their habitual residence and their country of origin. and this makes it more elastic to make a decision because there are such profound, really very profound differences between one state and another that you could constantly challenge the issue of succession. but we have also been given legal certainty because once the legal solution has been chosen, whether it is the habitual residence or the country of origin, there is no limitation of the discretion of the courts and also no limitation of the conflicts that may arise and so it is a more peaceful way of proceeding in this field and so there is more freedom and more certainty. and then the certificate of succession: we believe that the certificate is of little importance, and this creates the conditions whereby the heir has a greater flexibility and certainty in the face of all the possible difficulties that may be presented to him. that is a positive feature of this law. and then, it's true, it's not perfect this law: there are issues of whether or not there is an executor, whether or not there is a direct inheritance, and so on, but i just want to say one more word of a political nature. we hope that the council will approve this text, we hope that it will become a regulation, but we must not put a tombstone on this text, because we cannot even be with england in a different condition to great britain, so that europe cannot do without great britain and so we should proceed to overcome these difficulties later. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there are almost 450 000 international successions opened every year in the european union, with a total value, as has already been said, of over 120 billion euros. nevertheless, there are still many difficulties for citizens to determine which state, which authorities are competent in matters of succession law. in addition, most member states do not allow the citizen to choose the jurisdiction to which he or she will apply at the time of the succession. in addition, numerous issues arise when judicial recognition of official notarial acts of a member state other than that in which they were produced is sought. the regulation we are about to adopt responds to these serious shortcomings, to these concrete needs of the european citizens, and in doing so, ladies and gentlemen, we are not approving a classic piece of legislation, but are creating an instrument which regulates a crucial aspect of the institutional organization of every society: the concept of inheritance and succession, and the rules governing their effects and their individual aspects, have a primary impact on the organisation of any company. i therefore warmly thank all those who have contributed to the completion of this difficult project, and in particular my colleague mr lechner for his work and commitment during the difficult legislative process which is now coming to an end. i also thank him, and i do so on behalf of the millions of european citizens who will benefit from an instrument which fully meets their needs and makes a substantial contribution to the process of european integration. thank you, sir.
in writing. the proposal for a directive under discussion introduces a system of judicial cooperation between member states in matters of succession where the deceased has interests spread over countries other than the one in which he is habitually resident. i would like to express my appreciation for the work done by the rapporteur, mr leichner, who has been able to translate the different approaches into the text and to synthesise them into a complete discipline. at the legal level, the primary interest is protected by a simplified succession procedure, anchoring the provision to meritorious principles (protection of heirs, legates and creditors, which have hitherto been penalised in crossborder successions) and to innovative procedures (introduction of the european certificate of succession or the possibility for the testator to choose which legislation to apply to his succession). from a political point of view, the breaking down of barriers between states of all kinds, including those relating to law, represents a valuable step towards the creation of a 'common space' governed by shared laws, in which citizens can really identify themselves as 'european citizens'.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me say how much i appreciate the fact that parliament and the commission share the same vision on this subject. thanks to the collaboration between the committee on legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we have now on the table a very ambitious resolution with regard to the communication the commission adopted on european judicial training in september 2011. what the commission would like to do, and you share this view, is to build trust in eu-wide justice to create a genuine european judicial area. to build this trust, it is very important that judicial training is reinforced. we have set as an objective that 700 000 legal practitioners – which equates to half of the legal practitioners in the european union – should have participated in training on european law by 2020. to achieve this ambitious but also, we believe, realistic goal all available resources at local, national and european levels will need to be mobilised and used. and of course, all stakeholders have to commit themselves to integrating union law and its implementation into national and local training activities. they must commit themselves to increasing the number of judicial training activities on european law and the number of participants. member states’ councils of the judiciary and legal professions must organise matters in the most optimal way, so that human resources are available and training time factored when organising each national judicial system. the commission will, of course, work with the strength of existing stakeholders: the european judicial training network, the academy of european law, the european institute for public administration. it will also cooperate as closely as possible with the different european professional legal organisations. furthermore, we aim to initiate a two-week exchange programme for new judges and prosecutors as from 2014 onwards and we undertake also to facilitate funding available for european judicial training to support high quality projects, as you may have read in the proposals for the future financial programmes. as regards follow up of the proposed pilot project, the commission has initiated the steps necessary to adopt a commission decision in early spring.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, we have listened carefully to the commission's suggestions for strengthening judicial training. there is no doubt that this is an absolute priority, because we believe that the judicial training of judges and judicial staff serves not only to reduce the distances between the various judicial systems, which must remain distinct for the characteristic features of each of them, but certainly this mutual cooperation, this concrete collaboration can certainly facilitate, today more than ever, what is the transnational dimension of law: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the legal profession, including the creation of a common area of judicial training, and the possible exchange of information through erasmus, in order to define an area of freedom, justice and security in which each of the members can have a say in a concrete way, in a common european market in which competitiveness and sustainability are closely linked to the system of liberalization of the professions, in which it is important to have high quality standards. for this reason, a european professional card, a kind of european accreditation, is important in a context in which trust between the various states must be based on the mutual recognition of judicial measures, so that young judicial officers can be facilitated in entering the labour market and so that those who have the opportunity to have more languages can be taken into account and still play a role in important agencies, in a context in which the financial perspectives for the 2014-2020 budget must be characterized not only by pilot projects, such as the one mentioned, which are small and significant, but by adequate and appropriate resources to expand the range of those who will benefit from this programme. thank you, sir.
the european union has produced a huge amount of legislation, regulations to build european law and has created the european area, called the stockholm plan. there is a disconnect between this body, this legislative monument, and the use made of it by the citizens which is numerically, percentageally very low. on the other hand, the national judges and lawyers of the individual member states have been brought up within the law of their own country and have received a general education in this regard, whereas we believe that the true european judge is the national judge who changes his mind and who is familiar with european law. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. but above all, it is a movement from below that must be created in the training of the service, you cannot give lessons as schoolchildren in the judicial training of adults and professionally very high. we need to stimulate curiosity in dealing with our own cases, to connect with other colleagues and to find solutions, because today common low and similar low converge, they are no longer as distant as they used to be within the legal culture. that's the real point! in our proposals, and i am glad that the european commission has taken these aspects into account, we call for a reversal of the trend: the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be consulted on the draft law. there's an example in the netherlands, called eurinfra, which is very interesting. it's a network of officials in every court that radiate this knowledge and urge the judges to do so. that is the essence of our project, and we hope that it will have the full support of the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner reding for the important work he is doing in this delicate task of giving substance to a european legal culture. i thank you for having seen in the draft which i and my colleague mr berlinguer have submitted an opportunity to implement the stockholm programme and to continue along the lines of the last commission communication, the one from september, to which commissioner reding himself referred. i would like to stress, however, that the aim of the pilot project presented with mr berlinguer is to help build a common legal platform, understood as a place where the mistrust between the different states is overcome, but also between the different legal professions, between the different legal professionals. the innovative elements we have considered introducing in this pilot project are not only continuity of training, as mr berlinguer has rightly explained, with a reversal of trend in his offer, but above all the idea of making judges, lawyers, notaries, university professors share the same culture through the sharing of the same training path. mr reding rightly said in his speech that this was an important point, but i do not find this emphasis in the information which mr reding has given to this parliament on the proposal from the com for this pilot project. so i would like to draw attention to this point: it is important that the launch of a pilot project involves all legal practitioners and not just judges. legal culture is not built only through the pronouncements of magistrates, judges or prosecutors, but it is built through the sharing of a common cultural base, which must belong to all those who work, otherwise it will not reach the citizens in the way that the stockholm protocol seeks to reach us.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the interest of the parliament in the statute for a european cooperative society, as well as, more generally, in cooperatives and other social economy actors. as 2012 is the international year of cooperatives, this attention is even more important. the report provides a very useful and timely contribution to the review of the legislation on the statute for a european cooperative society. besides, it can increase visibility and raise awareness of the positive role that the cooperative model of business can play for the attainment of the europe 2020 objectives. the role of cooperatives was neglected for a while until the world started experiencing the economic crisis, when interest in cooperatives’ capacity to contribute to growth, employment and social welfare, grew again. it is true that cooperative businesses that have stayed faithful to cooperative values and principles have generally been able to resist well the impacts of the financial and economic crisis. the report contributes well to the reflection launched by the commission on the future of company law and is in phase with the social business initiative that the commission adopted in october last year. the commission notes in particular parliament’s proposal on the future of the statute of the european cooperative society, employee participation in such bodies, the strengthening of cooperatives and attention to gender issues. the commission also thanks the rapporteur, mr giegold in the committee on employment and social affairs, as well as mrs regner and mrs estrella in the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for their contribution. the commission has observed, as stated in the report, a certain lack of interest in the instrument created by the european cooperative regulation. only 24 european cooperatives were created as from 2006, the date of the application of the regulation. on 23 february 2012 the commission adopted a report on the implementation of this regulation and sent it to the european parliament, the council and other institutions. the text reveals that the complexity of the instrument is one of the main obstacles to the success of the european cooperative regulation. therefore the commission plans two large conferences in order to consult stakeholders on whether and how to simplify the statute for a european cooperative society, one in brussels in april with the participation of commissioners tajani and barnier, and the other in cyprus during their presidency in september. the commission envisages coming back to the parliament after you have examined the report on the implementation of the regulation and after concluding the consultation of stakeholders on this issue during the two big events. the analysis and proposals made in the report will be taken into account in the assessment process and consultation on the simplification of the legislation on the statute for a european cooperative society. it will also feed the commission’s work on company law and social businesses.
the rapporteur. the aim of this report is to relaunch the bologna process with the important aim that the qualifications awarded by universities throughout europe should have a general value and validity. if you get a degree from a university in a member country, it must be recognized by all the other universities, that is the main objective! it is a mistake to consider the university as an activity exclusively within the state! the real dimension of the university and the place of study is international because the studies and research are international, the professions are international now. the market for professions must be freed from the shackles and fetters which today hamper the mobility of labour within the european territory. this is a precondition which has economic value and also the answer to a great youth aspiration. who is responsible for this? the organization of studies is a matter for the individual member states, but recognition abroad is not a matter for the state itself. it is a matter for the european union, which must provide for it and which must make a policy to encourage it. article 149 of the lisbon treaty also refers to the union's role in the recognition of qualifications, in contributing to the development of the quality of education and higher education, and in developing the european dimension of education. for this reason, our report stresses that the union must also be given responsibility, in addition to the states, and that the biennial meetings of education ministers, such as the one to be held in bucharest, must gradually be made part of the union's competence. what do you do? our report sets out a series of measures, in the framework of a process, of a gradual approach to implement them: to promote all actions aimed at giving a european imprint to universities in the territory of our union; the main objectives of the programme are to: the quality assessment of what is done at universities as a condition for creating trust between the different universities, which is the basis for mutual recognition. and then we shall have automatic procedures to ensure that certificates are valid throughout europe. secondly, to remove the social barriers to young people, to students who come from the weaker classes and who are now aggravated by the cuts that are being made by so many governments. changing teaching, learning centred, developing lifelong learning, building the european higher education area which is in dialogue with the european research area. these measures are instruments of growth. more than 900 years ago, in bologna, a great jurist, irnerio, launched the idea of creating with the alma mater of the unification of european culture. it was a time when there were no states, but now that there are states, there is supranationality, and that is why we are calling for the european union to promote european university citizenship. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard this morning a lot of criticism of the french president's election speeches on immigration and schengen. a criticism that has been made from the point of view, through the lens of populism. well, it is legitimate. i would like to put to the same test what is now appearing in all the main european newspapers, yesterday and today, namely an important statement by the greatest progressive philosopher in europe, the elderly but very bright professor habermas, who views the reform, the fiscal compact, from a very precise point of view. he says that the implementation of this reform, this pact, should not be approved, because it is like wanting to increase, deluding oneself that one wants to increase, the integration of the states without the civic integration of the citizens and he stresses that only a democratic europe, only the popular will - i would even say a referendum, but i say this - could produce politically credible decisions. he calls this european union arrogant with the peoples and the servants of the speculators. well, from now on, i, who was used to quoting junger, will quote habermas for a critique from a populist and democratic point of view of your wrong decisions, which affect the people, perhaps taken in the inner circle, not here, obviously, in the inner circle of the bilderberg or trilateral meetings. and then, taxes on the heads of the people, fucking with the real economy of those who work and sweat, workers and entrepreneurs!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to start with mr swoboda's proud defence of the welfare system, in the sense that i do not believe that the president of the european central bank's statements should be interpreted in an ideological way, but rather as a statement: we have 500 million people, of which 75 million are under 25 years old, if you think about egypt: it's a country of 80 million, and 60 million are under 25. this is a real question, as regards the size and structure of our welfare system, and we are called upon to give concrete answers. the truth is that, in the face of real and enormous problems, european leaders are oscillating between populist sirens which put them in difficulty and force them to make proclamations to their public opinion, and pragmatic recipes which must be the main instrument for codifying the timing and the means of recovery. so, in order to have a really pragmatic approach, we have to focus on what is the instrument that we have institutionally thought about for this; the commission's role is to provide the necessary information and to provide the necessary support for the european parliament's work. we must strengthen the commission now! we must strengthen the commission and parliament must be the strategic element for this strengthening because otherwise, in the face of governments who are increasingly pulling their coats in the name of public opinion that is sliding towards populist solutions, we will be forced into an unprecedented surrender.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the words of the president of the commission and the president of the council this morning are even more worrying than the final text of the commission's work. there is only one insistence, one objective, which is financial stability and the actions needed to guarantee it. i am not going to underestimate the importance of this directive, but it is now quite clear that without growth the conditions of millions of people in europe are bound to worsen. and the underestimation of the social effects of the backsliding of all our economies is really, as i said, surprising and worrying. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so eurobonds and the financial transaction tax are not just any instrument, they are the only way to quickly reverse the trend and give a positive outlook to millions of people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the satisfaction of having escaped danger is understandable, but it should not make us forget the errors and delays of recent years, as well as the decisive role played by the ecb and the new italian government. and above all, satisfaction should not prevent us from tackling the huge structural problem that the policies of recent months have not solved. the strategy of wage deflation induced by austerity policies as an alternative to devaluation is not economically and socially sustainable, it is not politically hegemonic! let's stop with the caricatures, no one here is proposing deficit spending! we believe, however, that alongside fiscal responsibility, a revival of investment and demand at national level is possible. is possible with a more equitable distribution of wealth; is possible by addressing macroeconomic imbalances; is possible through major investments at eu level; it is possible by building a common debt management through a debt redemption fund! the community method offers the means to achieve these objectives, but a political shift is needed, which, from the french elections to the european elections in 2014, will open a new cycle and see the affirmation of a different strategy and a true european economic governance.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the salvation of millions of europe's unemployed does not depend on the crippling assistance offered by the european globalisation fund: the data collected show that most of the beneficiaries of the fund are unable to find new employment, while the most fortunate are reintegrated into the labour market with fixed-term contracts of as little as six months. in many cases, it is the unemployed who give up on this fund because they doubt its usefulness. the egf is not a solution and does not cover the disastrous consequences of a european trade policy which is being dangerously and too lightly handled by the commission. to combat the scourge of structural unemployment, europe must curb its excessive opening to the markets of developing countries, whose unfair competition is the main cause of the failures of our companies. as long as europe does not stop promoting economic self-harm by defending a short-sighted position towards global trade flows, our companies will continue to fail. the fund can only provide temporary support, but it is not through training courses that our unemployed will find peace and security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis in europe is not yet over, european companies are in serious difficulty and our workers are still paying the highest price by losing their jobs. this fund has been an exemplary response to supporting the reintegration of workers into new employment since its inception in 2006. the member states indicated that without the economic crisis derogation it would have been impossible to submit most of the applications, leaving 45 000 workers at home. the political message that the council has sent by rejecting this rule undermines the credibility and accountability of the european institutions. i therefore urge the council to make the unblocking of this derogation one of its priorities and i ask my colleagues to respect those who speak. thank you, sir.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
we already voted for it by roll call.
it's not possible. after the vote on amendment no 26
i am told that the vote or the corresponding paragraph or amendment was displayed correctly on the display. i didn't see him, because i'm here. yeah, they say they do, so let's move on.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just to remind the house that we are voting on a resolution on equality between men and women and therefore on the need to give women the tools to reach important roles and to reconcile work and family life. it is a pity that the amendments on maternity leave and the pink quota were rejected. so i call for the rejection of this directive!
i'm sorry, but that's not possible.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall correct what mr posselt said: the problem is that she didn't say, "the vote is open", but he immediately said "the vote is closed". you gave the floor to mrs ronzulli first and then said 'the vote', as the vote had not been announced and many did not press the button, it was a verifiable omission from the recording, so i ask you - i voted - but i ask you for the benefit of the colleagues who did not, because the translation came late, to repeat the vote. thank you, sir. (applause) i would like to thank
so i am told that there are indeed technical problems, so the vote will be returned to the house. the vote is open. did you all vote? have you all checked that your machines are working? all right, the vote is over. i'm with you.
rapporteur. − madam president, let me thank all the colleagues of the committee on culture and education for their collaboration in preparing this report on the bologna process on the consolidation and development of a european university system. i have a dream that every student applying to a university in any member state should be enabled to get a degree, a qualification valid in all the territories of europe, within the whole european labour market. this is definitely one of the ways to build up european unity and european citizenship. this is the deep meaning of this report. (loud applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr lechner's report, which aims to simplify and streamline inheritance practices, particularly in crossborder cases. of course, this regulation cannot solve all the problems or regulate every detail, but i believe it will bring considerable improvements to the current legal situation by providing european citizens with a solid and clear basis for the management of their inheritance. the autonomy of citizens is enhanced by the provision of the new right to designate the applicable law and finally the commission proposal is improved by the introduction of a european certificate of succession, which can be issued by notaries and bodies competent in matters of inheritance. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today the european parliament is once again sending its message: equal opportunities in the world of work are a long way off. i voted against the final text of this report, of course, for reasons of consistency, because some of the amendments on maternity leave and the pink slips were rejected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. what kind of work-life balance policy can achieve positive results if many companies, upon returning from maternity leave, confine their employees to increasingly marginal roles in order to induce them to resign? promoting women means supporting change, valuing them not only in economic terms but above all as a social value. i would like to make a few comments on the report. we are not afraid to denounce irregularities and to increase our efforts in everyday life! only in this way will we be able to eradicate the backward mentality which unfortunately still dominates many circles and unfortunately - as i have seen today - also that of many of my colleagues. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that it is important and that we must support this absolutely necessary demand and support a path, not only in the world of work, for women. important progress has been made in recent decades, also through european legislation which is certainly at the forefront. 60% of our graduates are women, but there is no doubt that access to the world of work is sometimes made problematic precisely because women choose not only work but also family. the family must therefore be protected, the gender gap must be reduced in a consistent way through well-defined social policies, through greater flexibility in work and, of course, through the protection of vulnerable women. we must remember that in human trafficking it is often women who are attacked, and that is another important issue which will need to be given even more attention. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the progress we have made, we must unfortunately admit that women still suffer from many disparities in all areas, including active participation in the decision-making and political process. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. to achieve equality between men and women, we must first remove cultural barriers and start talking about gender politics, and a first change must start with the parties. the commission has already taken a number of positive steps in the report by my colleague, and i fully agree with them, including the use of the 'pink' quota, which, although not the best solution, is the only viable one until, as i said, there is a change in culture and approach. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my sincere appreciation of the work which mr giegold has done with this own-initiative report and i would also like to remind you that he and i share an active presence in the social economy group of this parliament. my group - as you know - believes that the social model is one of the fundamental features of the european integration project, not just one of the many policies, but a policy which is the very hallmark of our project. and in these times, with the attacks also linked to the need to cut public spending, we still defend this priority with conviction, we know that it can be an updated or modified social model, but we believe that it must also be maintained, defended and reaffirmed as a priority. so i think that in this same vision we must also value economic actors who do business, who produce goods and services, such as cooperatives and who have a very special role in the so-called european social economy: the commission has already proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is why it is important - and i conclude, mr president - that europe provides the necessary instruments for an active policy and that a good statute, not the one that we have now, which is unworkable, but a good statute for cooperatives can be a way of helping this very important sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cooperative movement has always played an important role in building a more balanced and fairer economic dimension. and at this time, when we are going through one of the most serious economic and social crises since the war, the role of cooperatives becomes crucial: it is clear that where there has been a robust development of the cooperative dimension in the economy there has been a consequent increase in employment, more skilled work, a more balanced redistribution of the wealth produced. it is therefore good that the european union has adopted a statute for cooperative societies, but now more than ever there is a need for a real simplification of the rules. we need to give new impetus to the creation of a common european framework for cooperation, and this must be done by helping and not by creating bureaucratic obstacles. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution and i hope that the commission and the council will work actively to resolve the problems mentioned.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the adoption of the report on the statute for a european cooperative society, to which i have made a substantial contribution. i would like to emphasize the important role of cooperative experience in italy and europe and its impact on the territory, particularly at the time of the crisis we are now experiencing. i am sorry to say, however, that the european cooperative society has not yet become established, given its limited use: in 2010, only 17 companies were registered. this should raise questions about the applicability of the legal framework. i believe that today more than ever there is a need for simplification to enable small organisations to access information on the national provisions implementing the regulation and the directive. i also think it is necessary to recall the commitments made by the commission, and in particular the inclusion of cooperatives in the financial instruments of the european investment fund, and to make explicit reference to more favourable conditions for cooperatives such as access to credit facilities and favourable taxation. italian experience has shown that when supported by appropriate instruments and facilities, cooperatives produce excellent results in terms of employment and social conditions. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr berlinguer's report, which i congratulate on its work and its excellent analysis. the report highlights the problems and shortcomings which are hindering the effective creation of a european higher education area. i am referring in particular to the insufficient relationship between universities and the world of work, the still incomplete review of national certification systems and the unequal access to university systems. i therefore share the call made by my colleague for the adoption of a common certification system to achieve mutual recognition of university degrees. at the same time, i hope that the next ministerial conference scheduled for april will address the real pain point of the matter, namely the need and urgency to move rapidly forward with the revision of the directive on professional qualifications and their recognition. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in 1999, when the bologna declaration was signed, the european countries that signed it committed themselves to working together to create a european higher education area by 2010. this objective was to ensure academic quality, economic development and social cohesion, employment and lifelong learning for graduates. i agree with the report by my colleague, because it calls for decisive and coordinated action at european level. recognition of qualifications on the basis of an efficient quality certification system is a good starting point to encourage member states to adopt the national qualifications framework for lifelong learning. it is essential to implement and develop a european higher education system which allows and encourages the free circulation of knowledge. i think that the measures in the report are the right way forward to increase european productivity and competitiveness. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mr berlinguer on the bologna process. the creation of an open european higher education area is an important achievement for all of us. the need to harmonise the recognition of qualifications and the framework of qualifications, and to completely revise the national systems for certifying the quality of higher education is even more important. we still have students who, through erasmus, acquire qualifications which are not recognised in their universities or whose access to universities is too different and sometimes questionable. this is why we need to strengthen the process to achieve the objectives of the 2020 strategy in terms of job growth and economic recovery, also thanks to better synergies between universities and the business and labour world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a european higher education area is a great goal that the european union has been able to set itself. however, despite the progress made since the bologna declaration which dates back to 1999, as has been mentioned, we must note that as regards student mobility and the equalisation of qualifications between countries, the results are far from satisfactory. that is why i voted in favour of this report. we need to accelerate in this direction, we need to reverse the trend, especially in some countries, and reduce investment in training, and for this reason the harmonization envisaged by the bologna declaration remains essential to make the whole european training system stronger and the labour market more dynamic. i too would like to congratulate mr berlinguer on his excellent work. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the agreements between the european union and iceland and norway. in order to guarantee security within the european union, the abolition of frontiers and the consequent freedom of movement of european citizens must be accompanied by greater cooperation and better coordination between the judicial authorities of the various countries. in particular, the agreements in question make it possible to improve cooperation between the judicial authorities of two countries which are not currently members of the union but which are part of the schengen area, such as the kingdom of norway and the republic of iceland. following the amendments introduced by the treaty of lisbon, parliament's consent is required for such agreements to be concluded. finally, i join the rapporteur, mr moraes, in stressing the importance of eurojust's involvement in the project and i congratulate him on the excellent work he has done.
in writing. − we are in favour of the conclusion of this agreement because it aims to improve judicial cooperation between the member states of the european union, iceland and norway by applying almost all the provisions of the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its 2001 protocol. the agreement extends to norway and iceland the application of rules on mutual legal assistance which are already in force and widely applied in the other member states. we are convinced that this will contribute to the fight against crossborder crime and will strengthen cooperation with two countries which are already members of the schengen area and, in the case of iceland, will also have positive consequences in the negotiations under way for its future accession to the european union.
in writing. - my vote is in favour of the moraes report. i am convinced that we must speed up the ratification of this agreement, which, as the rapporteur rightly points out, has the important objective of improving judicial cooperation between the eu member states and iceland and norway. it is necessary that as many rules on this matter as possible be applied in as many states as possible.
in writing. − whereas the aim of the agreement is to improve cooperation between the member states of the european union, iceland and norway by applying almost all the provisions of the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and its 2001 protocol; i am also pleased that the council has taken the initiative to extend to norway and iceland the application of rules on mutual legal assistance which are already in force and widely applied in the member states, and i am also pleased that the council has taken the initiative to extend to norway and iceland the application of rules on mutual legal assistance which are already in force and widely applied in the member states, and i am pleased that the council has taken the initiative to extend to norway and iceland the application of rules on mutual legal assistance which are already in force and widely applied in the member states, and i am pleased that the council has taken the initiative to extend to norway and iceland the application of rules on mutual legal assistance which are already in force and widely applied in the member states, and that the council has taken the initiative to extend to norway and iceland the application of rules on mutual legal assistance which are already in force and widely applied in the member states, and i am pleased to vote in favour of the agreement in order to contribute to the fight against crossborder crime and to strengthen cooperation with two countries which are acceding to the schengen area and, in the case of iceland, with negotiations for accession to the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it is essential that an agreement on mutual legal assistance be reached with norway and iceland. the aim is to improve judicial cooperation between the member states and these two countries, thus extending to norway and iceland the application of rules on mutual legal assistance which are already in force and widely applied within the european union. the agreement would undoubtedly contribute to the fight against crossborder crime and strengthen cooperation with two countries which are already members of the schengen area and, in the case of iceland, with the negotiations for accession to the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr moraes, which aims to improve judicial cooperation between the member states and iceland and norway by applying almost entirely the provisions of the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between member states and its 2001 protocol.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr lechner's report, which has the merit of clarifying the situation in the field of succession law by ensuring legal certainty. european legislation is characterised by the collection of national rules which create fragmented and problematic situations in the recognition of citizens' rights. the creation of a european certificate of succession will serve as cross-border proof for registrations and will protect those who in good faith take possession of an estate. for citizens habitually resident in their home country, nothing will change if all their assets are located in that country. the new legislation is aimed at citizens who intend to reside, or who reside habitually, outside their country of origin: in this case, they will be allowed to opt for the law of their home state. the implementation of probate practices will thus be considerably streamlined and at the same time a solid basis will be provided for advisers dealing with successions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the recognition of decisions in matters of succession and the creation of a european certificate of succession. it contributes to the recognition of documents in matters of succession and resolves legal uncertainty by defining jurisdiction in matters of succession according to the principle of the 'habitual residence' of the deceased. i also fully agree with the decision to leave the testator the option of making a different choice, choosing as the governing law the law of a state of which he is a national rather than that of his habitual residence. i would also like to stress that the introduction of the european certificate of succession will help to simplify the procedures in this area, as it provides sufficient proof of the quality of the heir. finally, i believe that this regulation, together with the amendment of the directive on the recognition of qualifications, fits into the wider context of reducing barriers to the free movement of persons within the european union and thus contributes to making the freedom of movement of european citizens a reality.
in writing. − the proposal aims to enable european citizens to organise their succession in advance and to ensure effectively the rights of heirs and legatees in an international succession. while the proposal seems useful and justifiable in substance, it must be acknowledged that, from the point of view of the means by which this aim is pursued, there are still unresolved issues which not only do not simplify the rules currently in force but sometimes even complicate them: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. for these reasons, i thought it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. - in general, the conflict of jurisdiction between the various national legislations is one of the classic obstacles to be overcome in the perspective of creating an ever more cohesive european community. this case has concerned or concerns several areas of european law: one of these is the area of succession rights. this is not a purely legal issue: it is something which unfortunately concerns the painful personal and family history of many european citizens who, when they lose a member of their family in a member state other than their own, are forced to face complex legal problems which are all too often characterized by inconsistencies between the legal systems of the two countries. the european certificate of succession finally fills a legislative vacuum which, over the years, has inevitably caused problems in all european countries and serious inconvenience to many citizens at a particularly difficult time in their lives.
in writing. − the right of a deceased person to choose the law of his state of origin as the law applicable to the succession must not be called into question. the european certificate of succession is the best way to regulate this aspect. i therefore agree with the rapporteur and i shall vote in favour.
in writing. whereas deceased nationals who were habitually resident outside their state of origin and who had not opted for any legislation will in future be subject to the law of succession of the state of residence; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. whereas the commission proposal is further developed by the introduction of a european certificate of succession; the court has already held that the contested decision is not a final and legally effective decision on the succession but an attestation of that decision, capable of serving as cross-border proof for entries in the register and designed to protect those who take possession in good faith of an estate.
in writing. - the report by mr lechner was voted on today in plenary. the new regulation aims to facilitate the enforcement of wills and to avoid lengthy and costly litigation in the case of a european citizen who dies in a country other than his country of origin and whose will involves more than one national legal system. the rapporteur believes that cross-border successions represent 10% of the total in the eu, almost 450,000 per year, worth some €123 billion. the new european rules would also introduce a european certificate of succession, which would facilitate legal procedures and ensure that the rights of heirs, as well as other parties involved, such as creditors, are respected, making the procedure quicker and clearer. the certificate would have a voluntary use. the new regulation would not apply to succession of persons who remain in their country of origin and would not change national legislation on succession, property, taxation and would not introduce any harmonisation of national procedures.
in writing. − this vote will enable european citizens to plan their wills in an appropriate way by deciding for themselves. it will provide legal certainty on a complex issue. european citizens will finally be able to choose between the legislation of their country of origin or that of the country to which they have moved. the standard will facilitate, simplify and streamline cross-border succession practices. we may not be able to solve all the problems, but we will certainly make improvements. the european certificate of succession, issued by a notary, will improve the autonomy of citizens.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because, although equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the european union, there is still huge gender discrimination in the labour sector. this situation, in 2012, is unacceptable. women across the eu earn 17.5% less on average than men. i would like to underline that women represent 60% of new university graduates but continue to be under-represented in economic decision-making posts. indeed, within the eu, on average only 12% of the executives of the major listed companies are women, with only 3% female chairs. in times of economic crisis, strengthening women’s position in the job market is not only a moral imperative but also an economic necessity. for this reason member states must invest in affordable, high-quality facilities for the care of children, the elderly and other dependent persons, making sure that as many people as possible can combine professional and private life. i also would like to express my great concern about the legislation in some member states which does not expressly forbid the handing of pre-signed resignation letters to employers when women are recruited, which has the effect of enabling maternity laws to be circumvented. any further delay in that prohibition is intolerable.
in writing. - i could not express my approval of this report because the provisions contained in it go far beyond the defence of equal rights between men and women, and are intended rather to promote genuine discrimination at the expense of meritocracy, which should be the only benchmark, especially in the field of employment. i therefore voted against.
in writing. − the issue of equality between men and women is a very sensitive one and should be approached with due caution. the issue of employment is more important than ever in times of crisis, given the worrying statistics we have on youth unemployment. one of the objectives of our policy action, within the europe 2020 strategy, is to increase employment for men and women aged 20-64 by 75%. we know that this is an ambitious target, but we must do everything possible to achieve it. much more needs to be done in the area of gender equality, especially in the workplace, by seeking to reduce the difficulties of access to employment and career opportunities for women. in the future, action will also have to be taken on the pay front, where the gender gap remains very wide, considering that, with equal roles, men in the european union earn on average 17% more than women.
in writing. - i wanted to express my strongly negative opinion of this report, since it contains many frankly unacceptable passages. it goes from pushing for recognition for same-sex unions and families, to safeguards for same-sex parents. i will never tire of repeating that the family is one and only one, that is, that of a father, a mother and any offspring. no one forbids two persons of the same sex to live together freely, but the family is something else and therefore must have different guarantees and protections. it is in the very nature of the concept of humanity that the meaning of the term family, and of parenthood, is expressed: only a union between a man and a woman can lead to the conception of a new life, and the continuation of the human species. we do not want to give in to these new conceptions born out of nothing in recent years: history and human nature cannot and must not be changed. finally, i would like to emphasize that the title of the report referred to equality between men and women, and all these references in the text seem to me to have a completely different content and a totally different meaning.
in writing. i have chosen to abstain on the report 'equality between women and men in the european union 2011' because i note many advances in it but also elements that did not allow me to fully support the text. one point in particular weighed heavily on my decision, namely, the definition of family. this is a matter of subsidiarity policy, and i believe that this is a matter for the states and not for europe.
in writing. - i did not vote for, and regret having to renounce this right and duty, the report on equality between women and men in the european union 2011. many of the statements are principles that i have always supported and promoted: the gender pay gap - still unacceptable a gender gap of 17.5%; the difficulty of remaining in the labour market after the first child; the higher risk of poverty for women; the europe 2020 targets of 75% female employment; the need for a gender budget that takes account, in every public dimension, of the different needs for equal rights between men and women. but once again, an opportunity has been missed, by diverting the real meaning of this resolution into a swamp of demagogy - to please everyone, in fact, everyone is displeased - and by going so far as to discuss the right of adoption of children for same-sex couples or to criticise the definition of family and parenting in certain european union states as being 'too restrictive'. i believe that these areas deserve a broad discussion, as do the assessments on the need to open up to de facto couples, including homosexuals, but that the occasion should not be, for political strategy's sake, the text voted on today.
in writing. - i am strongly opposed to the report because, instead of proposing initiatives to achieve effective equality between men and women in the field of work, politics, decision-making and pay, it wants to implement the recognition of homosexual families and again discusses the 'necessity' of abortion. another consideration which convinces me even more in voting against is that we want to guarantee reproductive rights to women regardless of their sexual orientation, so we should give men who feel they are women the opportunity to have children or even adopt them. the consideration is also that families include not only married parents but also same-sex parents, so allowing adoption of children by homosexual couples. a report which could have been absolutely accepted in favour of the rightful recognition of the female gender has been turned into a senseless series of declarations on the alleged rights of so-called homosexual families, including the possibility of adopting children. i believe that the family in the strict sense of the term can only be considered when it is formed by a man and a woman and any children.
in writing. − despite the fact that the european union has been working for years to combat discrimination between men and women, and despite the cultural progress that has been made, equality between the two genders has not been fully achieved for a number of reasons, one of which is economic. it is therefore necessary to promote improvements in the working situation of women. efforts to improve labour market participation and access to positions of power, such as company boards, must therefore remain a priority. in some non-european countries the gap between the position and status of women and men often takes on dramatic dimensions. women have fewer rights or none at all. the european union is committing itself by this vote to doing much more to improve the situation of these women, starting with their health. it is not just a sufficient amount of funds that is needed, but also a radical change in mindsets and traditions.
in writing. − in the member states of the union, women are still underrepresented in the political decision-making assemblies: the gender balance in the regional assemblies has changed little since 2004. i would like to take this opportunity to draw the commission's attention to the fact that these percentages are fixed and are not showing any positive trend. one explanation for this phenomenon could be attributed to traditional barriers that women have to overcome, such as lack of financial resources, stereotypes, difficulties in reconciling family life and political activity. i therefore share one of the measures proposed by the rapporteur, which is to design and implement effective strategies at both union and member state level to increase women's involvement and participation in decision-making and leadership, through quantified targets, continuous monitoring mechanisms and clear action plans. i also believe that active and concrete measures must be promoted to ensure gender balance in all government bodies and in all public appointments. in my view, to increase women's political participation, we need to tackle the structural barriers that prevent them from taking an active part in political life.
in writing. - this report on the representation of women in political decision-making is not acceptable. the report calls for special measures to strengthen the political representation of women from ethnic minorities. secondly, the intention to impose a predetermined quota for women in government appointments, at both national and community level, is not acceptable, as such a selection criterion would violate any meritocratic principle.
in writing. - in our europe too, gender equality is unfortunately still an objective and not a result already consolidated in practice. just to give an example, in all eu member states women are still underrepresented in political assemblies, making up only 24% of the members of national parliaments, with different but all equally discouraging percentages in different states. although theoretical equality has already been achieved in legal systems, there are still numerous subtle cultural and practical obstacles which too often prevent women from realistically aspiring to positions of responsibility held by men. as in politics, so in public administration, in private enterprise, in education and in the armed forces, in all fields of civilian life which involve the assumption of responsibility and prestige. in today's highly competitive global environment, it is no longer acceptable that the gender gap is a discriminatory factor that can have such a profound impact not only on the professional prospects but also on the civil dignity of all women.
in writing. − equal participation of women in power and decision-making, in addition to being promoted at international level by the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, is provided for at eu level by the strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. gender equality in decision-making is a matter of quality and equality. a more balanced gender participation certainly contributes to more diversified decisions and better decisions. in all member states women are still underrepresented, due to a number of factors, such as lack of financial resources, the dominance of male culture, stereotypes, and the difficulty of reconciling family life and political activity. we therefore intend to encourage national parties to take measures to increase the participation of women. we believe that active and concrete measures to ensure gender balance in all government bodies and in all public appointments should be promoted at national level. the promotion of gender balance in politics is a prerequisite for stable and transparent democracies.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy includes the main objective of aiming to increase the employment rate of women and men aged 20-64 to 75%. in times of economic crisis, a stronger position of women in the labour market and their economic independence is an economic necessity. the full inclusion of women in the european labour market must be a priority from now on and that is why i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i do not think it is absolutely necessary to introduce quotas for women in politics. it is true that up until a few decades ago women were severely penalized, but fortunately for at least fifty years now in europe there have been equal rights and equal opportunities for men and women. there are many examples of politically engaged women who have merited to reach the top of the political hierarchy, and this has been due solely to their abilities, not to any special facilities. a quota system is also counterproductive for women themselves, in my view, because it would not reward merit properly, but rather only numbers. i'm for equality in every way: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - president, today we have finally tackled a subject which not only puts the role of women at the centre of a field, the political and decision-making one, which for too long has been classified as a male prerogative. at the same time, a path to modernity has been marked. let 's get this straight . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the women we support in politics are not just figures who are listed simply because they respect the law, but people who are aware that they have made a reasoned choice to participate actively. to these motivated and passionate women, who organise their family, social and professional lives to make their contribution to creating a better society - whether public or private - we give our consent and the means to follow their inspiration. in some italian regions, if two candidates are elected, one of them must be a woman. gender dual preference is a choice that is given to those who wish to express more than one vote. it also appears to be the only way to enable good, prepared, competent and generous women who want to get involved in politics to do so. thank you, sir.
in writing. − whereas the council of europe recommendation on the balanced participation of women and men in political and public decision-making, adopted on 12 march 2003, calls for a series of measures, including positive action measures, to promote a more balanced participation of women and men in political and public decision-making. in all eu member states, women are still underrepresented in political decision-making assemblies (today women make up 24% of the members of national parliaments). i therefore vote in favour of the implementation of effective multi-faceted strategies at union and national level to increase women's involvement and participation in decision-making and leadership, through quantified targets, continuous monitoring mechanisms and clear action plans.
in writing. - i reiterate that new measures to strengthen women's participation in economic and political life are essential for european democracy. i note in particular that 35% of meps are currently women, but the average female representation in national parliaments in the eu remains unchanged at 24%. only 23% of ministers are women. we therefore need to seek to improve the gender balance within the political decision-making process.
in writing. the report stresses the importance of diversifying the reach of political decisions through the active participation of women in the political decision-making process. at european level, it is important to implement concrete actions and strategies aimed at achieving a balanced participation, ensuring women the possibility of reconciling family, private and professional life. unfortunately, there are structural barriers that prevent women from rising to top positions. the text of the report unfortunately, in a pleonastic way, focuses attention on women belonging to ethnic minorities, who are underrepresented in the european political assemblies, and for whom special measures should be taken, and for this reason i am voting against it, because once again it is trying to protect, defend and protect the rights of women from outside the community at the expense of european citizens.
in writing. − the european union strongly promotes equal participation of women and men in power and decision-making. women's political participation, in particular, is fundamental to democracy and is essential for achieving sustainable development and peace. in all the member states of the european union, women are still underrepresented in the political decision-making assemblies: the european parliament has a right to vote. this vote also reaffirms that the active participation of women, on an equal basis with men, at all levels of decision-making is essential to achieve equality, sustainable development, peace and democracy. to increase women's political participation, it is necessary to address the problem of structural barriers that prevent them from taking part in active politics. the creation of conditions favourable to women's participation in political life at all levels is another necessary measure. the possibility of reconciling work, private and family life is recognised at eu level as an important priority for achieving gender equality and making it easier for women to participate in political life.
in writing. - after a decade of studies, research and investment aimed at implementing a european cooperative society statute, and after as many negative responses in terms of appreciation and feasibility by european citizens and the internal market, i did not intend to support this report with my vote. the text is based on principles which tend to make its content a mere ideological exercise rather than an instrumental and objective assessment of the economic value of this initiative for european citizens.
in writing. - the vote on this own-initiative report gives us the opportunity to stress the need to plan and launch, as soon as possible, an initiative by the european commission to relaunch the statute of the european cooperative society. the adoption of the report should be seen as a stimulus to act as soon as possible, not to miss the important opportunity presented by the un's proclamation of 2012 as the international year of cooperatives. the fact that only 17 of the approximately 160000 cooperatives in europe have adopted the form of the statute indicates the urgency of amending the statute in order to make it more attractive without losing its most important and positive aspects. there is widespread awareness of the value of the cooperative form in the european economic landscape, and our debate clearly showed that cooperatives, better than other forms of economic enterprise, have been able to withstand the economic crisis. it is therefore our duty to support them and to promote vigorously and consistently the spread of the sce as a positive model towards which to direct the development of european cooperatives.
in writing. - the promotion of european cooperatives is problematic, in my view, mainly for three reasons: first, it is clear from the small number of companies created since the entry into force of the directive. the insufficient number of workers involved and the analysis of the results of the commission's studies show that there is a substantial lack of interest in this field. secondly, the viability of such companies is strongly hampered by the diversity of the economic and legal contexts of the member states, which prevents the harmonisation necessary for the creation of trans-european companies. finally, the report considers that such companies represent a social economy model, as opposed to the capitalist one, which could help europe to emerge from the crisis, a point with which i disagree and which has been refuted by studies carried out in italy, where such companies were created for the sole purpose of achieving administrative simplification in the management of companies. for these reasons, i shall vote against.
in writing. - cooperative societies are a major european reality, comprising 160 000 units and employing some 5.4 million workers. however, the statute for a european cooperative society has, to date, not been widely adopted by european companies. it is therefore necessary to take steps to improve this instrument; the commission has already taken steps to simplify the document and to involve workers in its drafting, which is a key pillar for the future of cooperatives. working on these fronts, with a view to the wider extension and spread of the ece, is a priority step to stimulate growth and safeguard the european cooperative reality, which is a significant resource for the union's economy.
in writing. − social economy enterprises deserve our recognition and very significant support. the revision of the statute must make it possible to develop the recognition of this form of company in the eu given the central and indispensable role they now play in society. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i congratulate mr giegold on his work. the report adopted today, in the light of articles 4, 54 and 151 to 154 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, shows that parliament does not forget that cooperatives and other social economy enterprises are part of the european social model and the internal market and deserve absolutely greater recognition and support, as is also provided for in the constitutions of some member states and in several key eu documents. i also think it is very important to stress that, because of its complexity, the statute only partially meets the needs of cooperatives. it must be made easier to use so that the rights of information, consultation and participation of all employees are guaranteed without, however, leading to a reduction in quality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i consider it essential to protect the cooperative society, which is structurally linked to the territory in which it operates and is therefore a key factor in accelerating local development, which is essential for the creation of real social, economic and territorial cohesion in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. at present, the legislation on cooperatives and worker participation varies widely between the member states and the statute for a european cooperative society is currently the only legal form of social economy available at european level. its introduction would therefore be a major step towards the recognition of the european cooperative business model.
in writing. - i am opposed to the text because the rapporteur wants the european commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure full application of community legislation on european cooperative societies. the proposal sees such companies as a functional means of moving the european economy, but there are significant issues, including the need for harmonisation at european level, as member states' economic and legal contexts differ. another point which confirms my position against the report is the desire to employ large numbers of immigrant workers in the sces.
in writing. − the cooperative society is by its nature structurally linked to the territory and therefore plays an important role in accelerating local development, a true social, economic and territorial cohesion. in addition to a social cooperative's bonding and solidarity function, cooperative banks have demonstrated high levels of sustainability and resilience during the financial crisis, thanks to their cooperative business model. the latter, in fact, increased business volume and growth during the crisis, with fewer bankruptcies and excesses. this vote affirms that cooperatives deserve strong recognition and support, as provided for in the constitutions of some member states and in several key european union documents. in particular, it is welcomed that the provisions on worker participation are considered a central element in the framework of economic cooperatives.
in writing. − the main priority of the europe 2020 strategy is to aim to boost europe's economy over the next decade by investing in employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy. without education there is no growth. since the signing of the bologna declaration, member states have embarked on a series of reforms needed to make european higher education more compatible and comparable, competitive and attractive to europeans and to students from other continents. i do not deny the successes achieved, but i also fully agree with the rapporteur when he speaks of 'incomplete governance', because we cannot fail to note the many obstacles faced by students in terms of mobility, not only territorial but also horizontal (between degree courses) and vertical (within degree courses) and above all in the recognition of qualifications and qualifications, and in this sense it would be appropriate to modernise the vocational qualifications directive.
in writing. − i believe that strengthening the bologna process is instrumental in achieving the growth objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy: it is a prerequisite for the full integration of the union's internal market and an indispensable tool to meet the challenges posed by the economic and financial crisis. the current financial crisis is likely to result in a further reduction in the financial resources available in the education sector. the economic context should prompt us to promote an acceleration of the process and to study new financial frameworks that allow a more effective implementation of the objectives of growth and excellence of european universities. in my view, the first objective of the bologna process remains a fundamental condition: every student enrolled in a european university has the right to obtain a degree and to have his or her degree recognised throughout the european union. the bologna process ministerial conference will be held in april 2012. it is of paramount importance that the formulation of new commitments for the three years to the next ministerial meeting is not limited to the definition of a list of benchmarks, but instead includes concrete measures to promote the full achievement of the objectives of the bologna process in all universities and in all member states.
in writing. - i have defined the objective of the bologna process as the creation of a european area of quality higher education and i have supported the report by mr berlinguer with a favourable photo. never before has europe needed to encourage a revolution in training systems so that the academic world can respond to the real needs of the labour market and become an effective tool in the fight against unemployment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. the creation of a european open area of higher education is an important achievement and represents the broad institutional framework needed to implement the ambitious path set out in the bologna process. its strengthening is instrumental in achieving the growth objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and is a prerequisite for the full integration of the eu internal market and an indispensable tool to address the challenges posed by the economic and financial crisis. mobility, recognition of qualifications, increased funding and more effective dialogue between universities and business are the priorities to be focused on for the revival and modernisation of higher education in europe the current financial crisis will lead to a further reduction in the financial resources available in the entire education sector, but this economic environment should nevertheless encourage an acceleration of the process and the study of new financial formats and frameworks that allow a more effective implementation of the objectives of growth and excellence of european universities. only through a competitive education framework can new managerial classes and jobs be created.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the contribution of the european institutions to the consolidation and progress of the bologna process because i welcome the major structural reforms already advanced and completed, but i am firmly convinced that it is equally essential to continue the implementation of this project, which aims to increase access to higher education and the consequent training of our young europeans. the drafting of a common european framework for the international and european recognition of university degrees awarded in the states participating in the process on the basis of an efficient system for the certification of the quality of higher education provision is a necessary reform in the eu harmonisation process. the convergence of curricula would have the effect of promoting mutual recognition in the labour market and thus promoting the mobility of graduates, which is a key element in motivating enterprises to become involved in university science programmes and in persuading member states to allocate at least 3% of their gdp to education and science in a time of crisis. i also find it noteworthy that the agreement reached emphasizes the need to increase funding for both public and private universities with the ultimate aim of widening access to higher education.
in writing. - referring to the own-initiative report on the consolidation of the bologna process, i voted in favour. i believe that the principles expressed help to improve the union's economic growth prospects and are in line with the europe 2020 strategy. in particular, the proposal will help to facilitate students' access to the world of work and to promote their mobility, which is a commendable achievement both in itself and in the wider context of the fight against the financial crisis and youth unemployment. i consider recognition of qualifications in all countries of the area to be a necessary condition for genuine freedom of movement within the union, and i am convinced that the proposal will help to facilitate such recognition and to harmonise and improve academic standards, indirectly contributing to the process of improving the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications currently under discussion in the imco committee. in congratulating mr berlinguer on the excellent work he has done, i take this opportunity to recall the importance of the april ministerial conference in bucharest, in the belief that this meeting will help to define an action plan for the near future.
in writing. - i also fully support this report, which is intended to assess and develop the contribution of the european institutions to the consolidation and advancement of the bologna process. it facilitates mobility by removing the many administrative barriers which restrict it, through the mutual recognition of academic qualifications and the harmonization of university standards, and pursues the ultimate aim of improving the quality of european universities and the relationship between the education system and the labour market. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. the creation of a more integrated school system is an objective which european countries have been pursuing for several years: in 1999, the bologna declaration was signed, in which the member states committed themselves to working together to create a european higher education area, allowing the convergence of different education systems, in order to increase employment levels and the mobility of citizens and to promote european higher education throughout the world. over the years, much progress has been made, but the process is still far from complete: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the time has therefore come for the institutions to make a concrete effort to give the necessary impetus to the process of integration into schools.
in writing. − the creation of a european higher education area is the institutional framework needed to implement the ambitious path set out in the bologna process. in recent years, a structural reform of the european higher education system has become necessary: european universities have substantially revised and reorganised their teaching activities by applying the three-cycle framework introduced by the bologna process. the results are not yet completely satisfactory. we are convinced that strengthening the entire bologna process is instrumental in achieving the growth objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy: it is a prerequisite for the full integration of the eu's internal market and an indispensable tool for meeting the challenges posed by the economic and financial crisis. the current financial crisis is likely to result in a further reduction in the financial resources available in the whole education sector. to improve performance and to address outstanding problems, action at european level is even more necessary. the task of modernising and strengthening universities lies with the member states, the european institutions and all those involved (business, universities, students). europe must be able to ensure a more efficient system through a policy of incentives and links with the european research area.
in writing. the bologna process has set itself objectives which are still very important: ensure the compatibility of higher education systems in europe, remove the remaining barriers to moving to another country for study or work and make european higher education attractive to as many people as possible. i agree with the rapporteur that these objectives must be met and the bologna process strengthened.
in writing. - i congratulate mr berlinguer on his work. the text adopted, in the light of article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular article 14, shows how much this parliament wishes to underline the strategic importance of education in cooperation between member states, in order to achieve the key objectives of the eu 2020 strategy in terms of growth and employment and the necessary economic recovery. it is also essential to develop an effective bottom-up approach, which actively involves universities, trade unions, professional organisations, research institutes, businesses and, above all, teachers, students, student associations and university staff in order to achieve fruitful cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the bologna process is of strategic importance in ensuring the compatibility of higher education systems throughout europe, removing the remaining barriers to moving to another country for study or work and making european higher education attractive to as many people as possible, including those from third countries. the bologna process and the european higher education area play a key role in the europe 2020 strategy, helping to deliver growth based on knowledge and innovation, particularly in the context of the current economic crisis. the creation of this european area is the institutional framework needed to fully integrate the european internal market and to meet the challenges posed by the recent crisis.
in writing. − twenty-nine european countries signed the bologna declaration on 29 june 1999, committing themselves to working together to achieve a european higher education area by 2010, allowing for the convergence of european education systems, in order to increase the employability and mobility of european citizens and to promote european higher education worldwide. in my full support of the text we voted on this morning, i would like to stress that the commitment of the member states to increased funding by increasing public investment in higher education would partly counteract the economic crisis and encourage growth based on the strengthening of knowledge. this increased national effort to finance should then be accompanied by a bottom-up approach, actively involving all key actors such as universities, professional and trade union organisations, research institutes, enterprises. finally, i would like to stress that measures to promote vocational integration are absolutely necessary, such as lifelong learning, to promote more effective cooperation between universities and the labour market in order to develop more relevant curricula, or to ensure that a sufficient number of traineeships are available for students in order to further facilitate their integration into the labour market, should be given top priority.
in writing. − the full realisation of an open european education area is a prerequisite for the full integration of the internal market and an indispensable tool in terms of growth and employment to overcome the period of general economic uncertainty we are experiencing. the european union's recovery is achieved through greater interaction between universities, professional and trade union organisations, research institutes and businesses; more effective measures to promote integration into the labour market; support policies by the member states to encourage professional mobility in europe and student mobility. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. - it is common knowledge that statistics are the key to understanding the positive and negative trends in the various sectors of our society, since only by looking at the figures can we understand the problems to be solved and the prospects for the future. i agree with the requests made by my colleague mr scicluna about the need for independent, high quality, accurate and precise statistics and for easy public access. i have personally been involved in social policy, particularly in relation to children, and i have been able to see the enormous gaps in the situation of some of the most vulnerable groups in our society. i have repeatedly raised the need to develop a methodology capable of producing indicators (quantitative and qualitative) and comparative standards specifically for children: missing persons, unaccompanied, victims of physical and psychological violence and disabled persons. but also to improve the comparability, objectivity and reliability of data on children at european level on a range of indicators.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the debt crisis in the eurozone has highlighted the dangers of statistical inaccuracy and fraud arising from sloppy statistical governance arrangements. it is of fundamental importance to have independent statistical bodies throughout the eu in order to maintain the credibility of statistical data. statistical offices should not only be statutorily independent, but should also have mechanisms in place to ensure the total separation from the political process. for this reason, all member states must formally adopt a commitment to take all necessary measures at national level to maintain confidence in public statistics and to allow for more rigorous enforcement of the european statistics code of practice. the provision of accurate, high-quality statistics is crucial for sustainable regional development.
in writing. - the events in greece and the financial services of the european commission, the importance of being able to rely on sound economic indicators for the monitoring of fiscal policies, are the factors which have prompted the european council to reflect carefully on the measures to be taken to avoid that inaccuracies, errors or fraud are used to mask the real situation of a member state. the principle of shared responsibility should be reinforced by the right to transparency and fairness common to all statistical monitoring systems, i therefore supported the initiative of mr scicluna and voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the scicluna report because, in the light of the economic and financial crisis, it is now necessary to have independent statistical bodies for the credibility of data in order to make the right choices in economic policy, and it is useful to provide member states with concrete assistance to remove the main methodological obstacles. in this context, i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to give eurostat more investigative powers to monitor public finance data in agreement with the authorities of the individual member states. it is also important to ensure greater transparency with regard to the staff responsible and to make publications available for consultation, encouraging electronic systems that are easier to access even for less experienced citizens. the provision of accurate, relevant and high-quality statistics is of key importance for sustainable and balanced regional development in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, and the availability of accurate data should be the starting point for obtaining detailed information on individual areas such as demography, the economy and the environment.
in writing. − i believe that all data provided within the european union should be considered reliable, transparent and independent of the governments of the member states in order to be able to adequately support the different actions of the union. in the light of the recent economic and financial crisis and the role of eurostat in the framework of european economic governance, it is also essential to be able to monitor and assess public finance data upstream in order to take corrective action as quickly as possible where necessary. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i believe that a systematic and transparent approach to the collection of economic and social data concerning the european union is all the more necessary for the effective functioning of the complex institutional machinery we are called upon to represent. i think one of our objectives should be to strengthen the coordination of the national statistical offices with eurostat, to enable efficient and effective communication of data and surveys carried out at the level of each member state and at european level. in addition, eurostat should work towards simplifying the consultation of data, making full use of the opportunities offered by modern means of communication, in particular online.
in writing. − in order to adopt effective economic and budgetary strategies at member state and european union level, it is essential to have reliable and accurate statistics. we need a systematic approach to quality more and more nowadays, which requires a reform of the method of production of european statistics and a gradual transition from a corrective to a preventive approach. the existence of independent statistical bodies remains essential to safeguard the credibility of statistical data. we therefore support the proposal to define a legal framework aimed at strengthening the governance framework, in particular as regards the professional independence of the national statistical offices and eurostat, and formally commit all member states to take all necessary measures at national level to safeguard confidence in statistics and to allow for a stricter application of the code of conduct on european statistics.
in writing. − having accurate statistical data is a key aspect of our future development, particularly in the light of the europe 2020 strategy. the development of a common and coordinated methodology is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving the objectives of efficiency and development. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i wanted to express my positive opinion of this report, as i believe that there should be more uniformity and better guarantees as regards the european statistical system. we have seen that survey data and economic indicators are becoming increasingly important in the formulation of community policies and that it is therefore necessary that they be collected and analysed in a uniform manner in all the countries of the union. we cannot tolerate any more partial or even false information, and the experience of greece is a dramatic example of this, the consequences of which we are now seeing. i hope, therefore, that greater certainty will help to restore credibility and confidence to a system which has been seriously undermined by many errors and by too much approximation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i consider it essential to have reliable and accurate statistics in order to be able to adopt effective economic and budgetary strategies at member state and european union level. i believe that a systematic approach to quality is needed, which may require a modernisation of the methods of production of european statistics and a gradual transition from a corrective to a preventive approach to the management of the quality of these statistics. eurostat should also consider methods of publication, in particular online, that are more easily accessible to the average citizen and non-experts. the availability of precise and accurate data is the starting point for obtaining detailed information on individual areas such as demography, economy and environment and therefore plays a key role in the decision-making process on regional development, in particular in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - eurostat has been in existence for almost 60 years, since 1953. this is a particularly important office for the european union, as reliable and accurate statistics are essential for the adoption of effective economic and budgetary strategies at member state and union level. this vote underlines the need for a systematic approach to quality, which may require a reform of the method of producing european statistics. that's without any cost increase. in fact, modernisation of the methods of production of european statistics is necessary in order to safeguard cost-effectiveness. the absolute independence of the statistical body is further confirmed in order to safeguard the credibility of the statistical data.
in writing. recent news is that europol has arrested thousands of internet users in europe and the united states for uploading and downloading child pornography. the solution that has helped law enforcement investigations, and which i thank on behalf of citizens who use the internet as a useful tool and not as a weapon to offend the weakest, is called 'protected anonymity', which means the possibility for the provider of certain services to record the user's real data, which can be used to browse the web anonymously to other users. if a crime is detected through this connection, the user is responsible for his own liability. this is the same principle that links vehicle owners to their license plates. but the internet, unlike our congested highways, is the unimpeded way to free expression, which no one should allow to be restricted, according to certain positions which have also emerged in this parliament, even when it comes to the sexual abuse of minors and paedophilia. today's signal is important. i hope that written declaration no. 29, adopted on 23 june 2010, will soon be given the means to be implemented in the belief that the dignity of children is entitled to the same protection of privacy and freedom of expression online.
vice-president of the commission. − so far we have only heard rumours – and held indirect talks – that could suggest that the spanish government has the intention of changing its approach. we have so far stuck to the same approach that we adopted, together with all the member state governments and after careful negotiations. we will keep to this approach, which was set out in the commission proposal. the guidelines will be discussed in the transport council soon. we shall keep all the basic principles and keep the spanish structure of a core network, as agreed with the spanish government.
vice-president of the commission. − yes it is a very sensitive issue. we have no intention of issuing any kind of decree or directive allowing big trucks, called ‘mega-trucks’ or ‘eco-liners’ depending on who is speaking. we have no intention of creating a directive allowing these mega-trucks to travel everywhere in europe. there are differing opinions in member states. some member states are very much in favour of these bigger trucks. some member states are against them. my opinion is that this decision to allow or not to allow these mega trucks should remain in the hands of member states; this is the position which i will advocate next week in the committee on transport. there is only one nuance which has created a certain turbulence: if two member states authorise the trucks, can they then cross the border between these countries? it would seem ridiculous to me to prohibit this, to say to member states: ‘yes, you can allow these trucks to circulate on your roads, but you cannot allow them to cross the border between your countries’. this must therefore be left in the hands of member states. the legal opinion is that we do not have the authority to ban these trucks from crossing borders between countries which allow the use of these trucks.
vice-president of the commission. − we have asked the legal service to provide us with a legal opinion establishing a legal basis for a decision to forbid or to allow trucks to cross borders. the legal opinion i have received is that we do not have the authority to stop two member states deciding whether these bigger trucks can cross their borders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in order to be competitive we must grow, and that is our torment. it is all being discussed, including this morning in the chamber, from barroso to van rompuy, and everyone is talking about growth, but i would like to ask the two commissioners responsible for infrastructure, mr kallas and mr barnier, in particular: "but do you think - and all my colleagues - that we can get out of this and have growth in good time with the normal methods and the normal budget lines? or do you really think that we need to make a qualitative leap for growth? "i'm the editor of the current bond projects, this is a little aspirin to try to give some guarantees to the development company going to market. the question is: do we send the development companies to market or do we go, like europe? thank you, sir.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with tomorrow's vote we will officially launch the procedure leading to the adoption of the 2013 budget. the key word in budgetary matters in times of crisis is certainly the word austerity, and i think we cannot ignore it at the moment. however, i believe that the european union will never be able to respond adequately to the current economic and social crisis or to prevent any future crises without greater integration of common instruments and measures to strengthen solidarity between member states. the problems associated with the crisis affecting european economies are many: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. it is precisely on the young that i would like to dwell briefly. today's young people are better educated, more technologically advanced, more mobile and we must focus on them because they are and will be the most important resource for the growth of the union. unfortunately, the statistics we have are alarming: one in five young people under 25 is looking for a job and cannot find one. there are also 7.5 million young people under 24 who are not in work or education. i therefore believe it is essential to use the resources at our disposal to help young people develop skills that meet the needs of the labour market, by ensuring that they have the opportunity for professional experience and training to facilitate their entry into the world of work. i strongly believe that to respond adequately to these problems, swift and coordinated action at european level is needed, with targeted investment to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, with particular attention, as mentioned, to youth employment. in this context, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which have the greatest potential for economic growth and innovation and which have created 85% of new jobs over the last decade, is crucial. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the guidelines we shall be voting on tomorrow do not go into the specifics of the individual headings and policies, also because it would be too early, we are waiting for the commission to present the draft budget to begin working on the figures, counting on the valuable contribution of guidance from the individual specialised committees. but we want to send a message, and we want to send it to all the european countries, and that is the message of strong european added value. national budgets alone are not enough, and no member state can think of going it alone. in this respect we need strong synergies within the european semester between national and european budgets. i have to add one last comment on the issue of payments: 2013 is the seventh and final year of the financial perspective: we all remember what happened during the conciliation procedure last year and it is therefore in this direction that we must expect an increase in payment requirements. parliament therefore declares from now on that it will not welcome artificial cuts in payment appropriations, because this practice risks leading us to an unsustainable level of payments in 2013. a simple net contributor/beneficiary approach does not take due account of the important spill-over effects that the union budget produces between member states for the benefit of common policy objectives of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the rapporteur's concern about the facilities to be given to small and mediumsized enterprises, especially in view of the enormous difficulties they are currently facing in obtaining european funding. however, there is one important point to be made and i have tabled an amendment on this which will be put to the vote tomorrow: the european funds should only go to those companies which invest in their territory to increase their competitiveness, and under no circumstances can they finance companies which transfer their activities elsewhere by relocating to more profitable countries. the rules in this area should be tightened up and those who break these laws should return the funds obtained. the money available is scarce, and small and mediumsized enterprises cannot even obtain the loans that the ecb grants to european banks to support them. the little we have must therefore be put to good use and must not end up in the hands of those who take advantage of it, often on the backs of the workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the difficult economic and financial environment created by the crisis has put a strain on the budgets of the member states, which are already in a precarious situation, and has led to a sharp fall in public investment in sectors which are key to boosting employment and growth. the guidelines proposed for the 2013 budget focus on job creation, especially for young people, by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 90% of the european production fabric. an adequate level of funding for the 2013 union budget is crucial as the last year of the current financial programming and a benchmark for the next one, which will have to chart a path of growth and jobs and competitiveness for europe 2020. i consider it essential and i conclude that the council does not compromise the strength of the 2013 budget by burdening it with payments generated in 2013 and not authorised. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am in agreement with the absolute majority of your comments. just a short response to ms andreasen – mr hartong may stick to the habit of leaving the room before the answer comes – and also to mr brons. even in austerity you have to pay your bills, the electricity bills and the other bills, and the responsibility and credibility of the european budget lie precisely here. our inability to repay, to reimburse to athens, to rome, to madrid, to lisbon, the countries under financial stress, money for what was accomplished, what was legitimate, is clearly inconsistent with the political declarations that we should supply; we should do our utmost within our means to help these countries to get out of the crisis. i think that this simple truth could be our guide in the forthcoming procedure for 2013, but even with the best will in the world we are not able, given the pressure upon the budget, to repay all the outstanding commitments, and this is my short answer to mr zemke.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologise to the commissioner who was coming in and had already left to take over from mr lewandowski for allowing the rapporteur to close the debate as he usually does. let me close by thanking the commissioner and all the members for their contribution to the debate. but let me make a couple of points: the first, which has come out of various interventions, is the need for payments, we are at the end of the multiannual financial framework and at the end of the financial framework there are the accounts to be paid, there are the commitments made in previous years which have generated and which now generate payments to be made. and these payments must be honored. and i am naturally asking the commission in its budget proposal for 25 april to be very brave, to take account of the accounts to be paid and the payments to be made, and to put the request on the table in the right way. i am absolutely convinced of this and i would naturally like the budget to reflect this theme. i have not given priority to the individual budget lines because i believe that is the procedure, we will of course have time to indicate the priorities, positive and negative, of parliament, but i ask the other institutions - even if the council is absent at the moment, and we all hope that it is following our work and our debate - for strong interinstitutional cooperation so that we can all follow the process together and give the european budget the appropriate dimension to meet the challenges we will have to face, especially in a difficult period of economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by thanking mr moreira and the committee on international trade for their proposal that this house consent to the conclusion of the international cocoa agreement. the commission agrees with parliament’s view that the new agreement is a good platform to promote international cooperation in the world cocoa sector and that it will contribute to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies. this agreement will enable the world markets to strive towards obtaining fair prices for both producers and consumers, while also leading to equitable economic returns and promoting a sustainable cocoa economy. all these elements are of paramount importance for cocoa producer countries, which also, in most cases, happen to be developing countries. being the world’s main importer and consumer of cocoa, the european union has a clear role and a responsibility to promote the increased sustainability of a fair cocoa trade in these countries. with this responsibility in mind, we recognise that the question of child labour represents one of the most difficult challenges – the controversial aspect being that, in our view, the idea is abhorrent, while in some other traditions it is an accepted practice. however, we agree with the ilo, icco and the world cocoa foundation that the agreement is a good starting point to address the issue of child labour in this particular sector. we could even go further on this issue by saying that the problem of child labour goes well beyond the cocoa sector and, unfortunately, affects nearly all our developing partners. as you know, the rights of the child are enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. it is a priority for us to protect and promote these rights, and the commission is deeply committed to this cause. the eu remains engaged in eradicating the worst forms of child labour at global level and in ensuring that a child’s education is not sacrificed to the need to work and that children’s physical and emotional development is not adversely affected. at international level, under article 32 of the un convention on the rights of the child, children have the right to be protected from economic exploitation and from child labour. nevertheless, the commission has repeatedly expressed its profound regret that, despite the efforts of the international community – including the near universal ratification of ilo convention 182, which requires the complete eradication of this practice – an ever-increasing number of children are engaged in activities that meet the ilo definition of child labour. i would like to point out that today a shocking 124 million children are engaged in the worst forms of child labour and that the overall trend in sub-saharan africa is up by nearly 30%. this should give us all food for thought. i therefore really appreciate and welcome the interest that mr moreira and a large number of members of this house attach to this issue. but the issue is complex. in developing countries, and in particular in the cocoa sector, the problem of child labour cannot be considered in isolation. an integrated approach must tackle other very relevant issues stemming from the root causes of poverty and the subsequent need for child labour and trafficking of children for this labour. as the draft recommendation rightly acknowledges, 90% of cocoa farmers in west africa are smallholders. these are family farms facing huge challenges. they are sometimes located 40 km down a dirt track and have extremely difficult access to infrastructure. in these circumstances children will, of course, be working on the farm. in order to assist communities to provide the conditions where children will no longer need to be employed, the commission is fully engaged through its development cooperation and its policies that we apply in this sector. the eu’s engagement is outlined in the 2010 commission staff working paper on child labour and the june 2010 council conclusions. policy coherence and coordination are essential components to this effort and, with this in mind, we have in place a coordinated eu approach, working with the relevant international organisations and bodies. this is coupled with helping west african countries to address the issues themselves, including through cooperation on improved infrastructure and farming methods and providing for more and better labour inspection and market organisation. to conclude, i would like to reaffirm my strong belief that a child’s place is at school and not in the fields or factories. eradicating poverty is the first objective that we should try to achieve: tackling the root cause of child labour in africa and in all developing countries. i am therefore very grateful to the european parliament, which has once again put this very important issue high on its agenda. the commission, as usual, will address the issue in its work.
i would like to thank mr moreira for his excellent work on both the resolution and the convention. this new international cocoa convention which we shall be voting on tomorrow certainly contains very timely measures which improve the previous one, measures such as the development of the producing economies, fair prices for both producers and consumers and a sustainable framework in environmental and social terms. i believe that it is precisely in this social context that the resolution accompanying this convention, which we are also going to vote on tomorrow, is emphasizing. i think that the fact that it is basically focusing on the eradication of child labour is a great success, because it is one of the problems we have and, as the commissioner has said, we have been trying to fight it for some time, but the truth is that the figures you have given us of 124 million children working in the world do not give much joy. i think, in this sense, it is a very difficult battle and it is one of those battles that must be fought from many fronts. and what i would like to put forward here are three specific fronts that i think would be vitally important. the first would be the obligation for all states to ratify the united nations convention on the rights of the child. the second would be to apply - and this i think is important and has not been mentioned here - the advances in research and development so that we have techniques for growing and harvesting cocoa that do not require this child labour. and finally, the development of a european standard on traceability and sustainability. i think the commission would do well to try to study these proposals and i would also like to know the commissioner's opinion on them.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the cocoa market, paradoxically sweet in its final product, is almost cursed from the beginning. when francesco carletti, a florentine merchant who was the first to circumnavigate the globe using merchant ships in the late 1500s and early 1600s, brought cocoa to europe, he denounced a trade in which the slave trade was the main source of funding for the plant's investments. and since then the inhumanity of the cocoa trade has persisted. if the product originates from ghana and côte d'ivoire almost 60% of the world production the role of children, the majority of whom are under 14 years old, is obvious, often subject to a real trafficking that takes them away from their families in neighboring countries to lock them up in plantations. last week i was in côte d'ivoire for an annual meeting of the liberal-democratic euro-african parliamentarians and i met the president of the main non-governmental organisation fighting against the exploitation of children in cocoa plantations, an organisation which is not alone, even president ouattara's wife joined them in starting the work of the national monitoring committee against trafficking and exploitation and child labour. but we must move beyond voluntarism, good examples and complaints, and invest the organization of markets with a social responsibility which has so far been lacking in cocoa plantations, due to the particular, non-intensive, non-mechanical culture, and the worsening use of pesticides for workers. the agreement signed - and i thank president moreira and the commission - is the first piece of good news, it makes the chocolate chain more transparent, involves non-governmental organisations and promotes fairer world prices. and the eu, which has the majority of the votes of the importing countries in the international cocoa organizations, has a particular responsibility in implementing the agreement quickly and making it a tool for humanizing the production of this great food temptation. but the agreement, important as it is, is not enough on its own. consumers must also be made more aware of the need to enable them to make ethical purchases, and the production and marketing of fair and supportive chocolate must also be promoted, with prices guaranteed to producers and no child exploitation on african plantations. the eu can do much more in this respect by regulating a european guarantee mark which has so far remained a private initiative. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the objectives of the agreement are all acceptable and must therefore be approved, but we cannot forget the great social question which runs through this sector: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's cocoa industry is not affected by the crisis. the european cocoa industry is the world's leading cocoa industry, and we must urge our processors to demand that they commit themselves to combating child exploitation and to a sustainable and fair cocoa trading chain. that is the aim of the resolution which we are proposing and which deserves our support. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think there has been a great convergence of views during the debate. it is true that cocoa is a great product. it is also true that for many countries, such as côte d’ivoire, it is an important product for the economy. fair trade should be practised and a fair price should be paid for the product. it should also be the industry’s responsibility to ensure that the products they sell are not tainted and use sustainable labour practices. it is also important that we include all elements of the fight against poverty in the same package; that is what we are doing in ghana, côte d’ivoire and other countries. but further measures are needed to address the problem of child labour. i will just recall a couple of them: the european union is conducting a lobbying campaign to support the ratification of ilo convention 182 on the worst forms of child labour and two optional protocols to the convention on the rights of the child. child protection with regard to child labour has been identified as an eu priority in a number of the human rights country strategies that the eu has been drawing up. this is a very important point because we are engaging in political dialogue with our developing partners. this is where we could and should address this issue, with the aim of ensuring that countries also see it as a clear priority. the commission has also produced its guide to socially responsible procurement, which pays attention to labour practices. there are also relevant projects and programmes in development assistance. some of these are specifically targeted at child labour, for example the eur 14 million tackle project on child labour and education which the ilo is carrying out in 14 acp countries, and last year’s eur 10 million call for proposals to combat child labour under the ‘investing in people’ programme. more specifically in the cocoa sector, the edf cocoa sector support programme effectively contributed to improving the livelihoods of smallholder farmers and making cocoa production more sustainable in ghana. i would like to assure all of you that the commission is fully committed to maintaining policy coherence in all its initiatives related to trade, development, human rights and corporate social responsibility, bearing in mind that in developing countries the problem of child labour cannot be just looked at in isolation as a separate problem. taking into account the importance of ensuring that trade agreements include effective provisions on poverty reduction and the promotion of decent work and safe working conditions, the commission is concretely looking into the issue of traceability of goods produced using forced child labour.
in writing. the international cocoa agreement 2010 will replace the existing 2001 agreement to which the european union is a contracting party. overall, the agreement aims to bring more transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the lives of 50 million people around the world depend. in particular, it aims to create the conditions for fairer and more sustainable global trade in cocoa by strengthening international cooperation. the union imports over 80% of its cocoa from west africa and the european chocolate industry is the largest in the world. over 90% of the world's cocoa is grown by 5.5 million small farmers, and another 14 million rural workers depend directly on its production. i believe that this agreement can have a positive impact on all the actors involved in the cocoa economy and i hope that it will translate into tangible long-term benefits for small farmers. unfortunately, the problem of child labour in the cocoa-growing industry is widespread, and although much of the work is carried out in the family, the situation is worrying. i believe that the european union, as the world's leading importer and consumer of cocoa, must take an active part in solving this problem as a matter of urgency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner has been very clever in promoting this initiative and this regulation, but she has also brought up a problem, and that is the only thing i want to stress in this speech, namely the under-implementation of the funds. the commission must intervene because we are faced with under-implementation of the funds. your move was clever to speed up this process. the comments made by mr ferreira are very good, because they point out a number of points in this direction: i do not think that we can transform the common fisheries policy in the course of these two years, but i do think that we can direct our resources in the right way, especially to the weaker countries which are most in need of support at this stage. i would add that in order to make this expenditure effective, commissioner, i would also suggest that the procedures could be simplified at the implementation stage. i would put a point of emphasis on this. sometimes an extra look at the execution of the expenditure and the simplification of the procedures can help this process further. just a joke, mr president, on the court of auditors, well, we are careful to consider the court of auditors' report as uniform for europe: and within that ratio, there are zones and zones, where the effectiveness has been differentiated. thank you and i apologize for the time, mr. president.
member of the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, and all the members of the parliamentary committee on international trade for their work and commitment in reaching this agreement at first reading, as mrs quisthoudt-rowohl has mentioned. the proposal to increase the tariff quota for 'hormone-free beef' is provided for in the memoranda of understanding signed with the united states in 2009 and with canada in 2011. these memoranda, by creating reciprocal market opportunities on both sides of the atlantic, are a crucial step towards ending a decade-long dispute. the united states has removed sanctions on certain products from the european union, while the european union has offered significant access to its market for hormone-free beef. i am pleased to note that mrs quisthoudt-rowohl and the committee on international trade are fully supportive of this agreement. it is expected that phase ii of the memoranda will enter into force on 1 august 2012. i hope that this will lead to a final resolution of the hormone beef dispute at the world trade organisation. i am very aware that exports of european veal and beef to the united states remain blocked because of the us bse restrictions, as mrs quisthoudt-rowohl has mentioned. as you know, these restrictions are not in line with the rules of the world organisation for animal health (oie), which stipulate that trade in beef must be allowed between countries in the same risk category, which is the case. the european union and the united states are in the same risk category as the world organisation for animal health, i.e. controlled risk. i met with minister vilsack and we had the opportunity to discuss these matters. very recently, i met with mr. vilsack's assistant at the usda in nuremberg last february to announce the mutual recognition of the rules on organic farming. i have asked the us administration again to do everything possible to ensure that progress on the bse issue is made as soon as possible. as mentioned today, the draft standards on this subject were published in the federal register on 9 march. this publication opens a period of consultation with the interested parties and thus opens the way to clarify this matter as well, which should also be clarified, as i said, according to international standards and rules. i hope that we will be able to conclude this matter fairly quickly and ensure that beef producers on both sides of the atlantic can benefit from specific market access. i thank the committee on international trade, the committee on agriculture and rural development and the european parliament as a whole again for supporting this draft regulation in a very rapid and effective way.
the vote on the opening of the tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef marks an important moment for good transatlantic cooperation and for the first time, thanks to the lisbon treaty, the european parliament is crucial for approving this type of decision. this increases the interest and understanding of the united states towards our institution, as we saw firsthand during the meetings with the american congress of a delegation that the committee on agriculture had last june. this agreement puts an end to a longstanding dispute and allows the full lifting of the sanctions imposed by the united states while maintaining the ban on imports of hormone-treated meat to ensure our high standards of quality and food safety. for these reasons the committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing, gave its strong consent, without any amendments, to the conclusion of this agreement in the spirit of deepening transatlantic trade relations and improving dispute settlement in the world trade organisation. i would like to thank the rapporteur and our rapporteur, mr lyon, very much.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, without any further discussion, i would suggest that you ask: "have you voted?" without saying all of them, or all of them.
please do not disturb the vote which is being held in a calm manner. please, that's enough!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this is a great achievement for the european parliament today, because when i wrote to president buzek on 15 july saying that we should set up an anti-mafia committee, i remember that there were many colleagues from different countries who said: "but the mafia is a problem of sicily and italy". today, the recognition by colleagues from the north, from all over europe, that there is a problem of 'organised crime in europe' and the willingness to fight it together, i think is a very important fact and i want to say thank you to the president and to the whole parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
i am not going to go into the details of the vote, but i would like to ask you to give your opinion on the motion for a resolution.
the voting is closed.
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the general economic crisis which is also affecting the european coastal communities, i believe that we must work towards a better use of the european fisheries fund. given that funding in this area has often been earmarked for the scrapping of vessels and has therefore not contributed to the growth of economic activities linked to fishing, i welcome the proposal to revise the priorities of the eff and to facilitate easier access to european funds. despite some limitations in the text, i therefore voted in favour of mr ferreira's text to ensure that member states can continue to implement the programmes of the european development fund. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, other members have said this before me: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the fishing agreement with morocco. for some countries, such as italy, but also for greece, this sector represents an important source of income and an added value for the economy of many regions covered by the convergence objective. i therefore intend to support the commission's proposal to allow a 10 percentage point increase in the co-financing rates applicable to the priority axis of the programmes under the eff, albeit on a temporary basis, in order to stimulate public and private investors to make more use of the funds made available by the eu. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the european fisheries fund, considering it necessary and indispensable to bring the expenditure of the eff urgently into line with that of all the countries of the european union. i therefore agree with mr ferreira in calling for its application at first reading. commissioner damanaki was right to propose an urgent measure for those countries which have a low investment capacity, often reduced to historic lows as indicated in the report. the debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy has already begun, and the edf's expenditure must be accelerated, including by raising the co-financing threshold of 10%, to avoid the need to spend resources from the old programming when the new reform is implemented. the european maritime and fisheries fund should not be overlapped with the eff. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to bring certain commercial policy legislation, including the anti-dumping regulation, into line with the new comitology procedures. the text voted today, supporting the arguments put forward by european industry that the made in italy is a boast, even in a time of crisis, strongly supports the trade defence instruments which represent the only possibility of protection for european companies and in any case the anti-competitive commercial practices put in place by non-european competitors. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the anti-dumping regulation is of particular importance in the rationalization which is taking place with the omnibus u first proposal. it must not be forgotten that if a common commercial policy is to be effective and not harm the union's productive sectors, it must strive to ensure that the rules are respected, and that they apply not only to one party but to all the partners. one of the fundamental rules is that of fair prices, so that dumping must be combated with energy and effectiveness. the inta committee was right to stipulate, in the context of the definition of a derogation for trade defence proceedings, that the maximum duration of anti-dumping proceedings should not exceed the currently applicable duration of 15 months. we must not weaken the instruments of defence, as the commission was prepared to do following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the instruments of defence are therefore indispensable to guarantee competition, to safeguard the rules and to protect consumers. i therefore vote in favour of the resolution and thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before the explanation of vote, i would like to explain that i am wearing this shirt to call for authoritative intervention by the european union to secure the release of the two italian soldiers, captain massimiliano latorre and sergeant salvatore girone, who have been unjustly detained for performing their duty against piracy. mr president, the european parliament's new general approach to the 2013 budget will set out the guidelines, objectives and strategies that the commission will follow in drawing up the draft budget. the report sets out the key points for the relaunch of the european economy in the context of the effects and problems created by the continuing economic crisis. i support the initiative not only because it gives the eu budget the privileged role of a tool for promoting cohesion between the member states, but also because it contains the premise for revising and adapting the new budget in the light of the economic crisis affecting the eurozone. i fully support the initiative put forward by mr la via and i particularly agree with the request to the council not to introduce artificial cuts which do not take account of the actual absorption capacity of the programmes and consequently delay the implementation of cohesion policies. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 215 million children in the world are used as labourers, 152 million child workers under the age of 15 and 115 million children engaged in hazardous work. these are frightening figures which we cannot tolerate any longer. i voted in favour of the resolution on child labour in cocoa production with the greatest conviction because the european union must play a key role in stopping this form of modern slavery. the european commission must do its utmost to ensure that all trade agreements with cocoa producing countries such as ghana and côte d'ivoire include effective provisions to ensure decent work and prevent child labour. we need a traceability mechanism to identify goods produced through child labor. the european union has always defended the rights of the weakest in the world, and the children who work in the cocoa harvest must have our full attention. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we often ignore the methods and conditions of production of certain products of daily use, without knowing that in some cases these products are produced by the labour of more than 200 million children. of these, 150 million are under 15 years of age and engaged in very dangerous activities. unfortunately, the cocoa industry is also involved in this system of exploitation. the elimination of child labour is a duty, a responsibility of all the countries concerned and of all the multinational companies involved, which sometimes refuse to disclose their financial flows. in compliance with the un convention on the rights of the child and the ilo conventions, i hope that consideration will be given to the possibility of creating a monitoring body for the production chains in order to combat the abuse and exploitation of children and to introduce a traceability system for cocoa products. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures for diabetes are discouraging: a real epidemic, with over 300,000 deaths a year. a chronic disease that weighs heavily on national systems with a 10 to 20% share of spending. at present, there is no cure for this disease, although fortunately it has been declared non-communicable, but it is bound to spread due to the aging of the population and improper lifestyles. the european union must continue to focus its action on the prevention of diabetes and obesity, together with strategies on healthy lifestyles and early diagnosis. the european union must also implement an effective and innovative targeted strategy at national level, and ensure that research projects receive continuous financial support. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i went to macedonia in the last presidential elections on behalf of the political group of the european people's party to support the campaign of prime minister gruevski and i have seen, in my meetings with thousands of people, that not only the institutions but also the citizens have a strong desire to join the european union. that is why i believe that the start of the negotiations, which were suspended at one point and which must now be reopened, cannot be delayed for too long. the 2011 progress report presented by the commission shows that for the third consecutive year, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has managed to maintain positive progress and in line with european standards in terms of policy criteria and market economy development. i am therefore confident that fyrom will be able to overcome the political and structural limitations which still hinder it, and i therefore give my full support to the resumption of negotiations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia demonstrates the strong will of this country to join the european union. it is a strategic country in the balkan region, involved in various european initiatives and showing signs of cooperation and openness. the reforms of the judiciary, the decentralisation of administration, the first, if feeble, signs of opening up to dialogue on freedom of expression, all give hope for the future. but they remain worrying: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. the country still has a long way to go and the years leading up to accession should act as a stimulus to accelerate the reforms necessary for the democratic development of the country. i believe in a strong and enlarged europe, which is why i voted in favour of the resolution. thank you, sir.
in writing. − the continuation of the recent economic and financial crisis has put increasing pressure on national financial resources. in this context, ensuring the proper implementation of cohesion programmes is of particular importance as a means of injecting funds into the economy. however, liquidity problems resulting from budgetary constraints hamper the implementation of the programmes, in particular in the member states most affected by the crisis. in order to ensure that member states continue to implement the european fisheries fund programmes and provide funding for the projects, the commission proposes to increase eu co-financing for the countries experiencing the greatest difficulties, while reducing proportionately the national effort required to use the funds. i welcome the european commission's proposal, but i share the rapporteur's concerns about certain parts of the proposal: the commission will have to assess to what extent the amendments to the regulation in question will actually 'allow the member states concerned to access the funding needed to support projects and economic recovery' and, in my view, will also have to reorient the priorities of the european fisheries fund, mainly in favour of supporting productive activity and the development of coastal communities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution amending regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 on the european fisheries fund, as i share the strong urgency of this, given the state of crisis affecting the fisheries sector and the member states concerned as a result. i therefore think it is more than appropriate to support the commission's proposal on this subject, the measures of which would have the effect of concretely accelerating member states' investments in the regional realities concerned, simplifying the management of eu funding and increasing the availability of funds for the economy. i also voted in favour of the proposal because the increase in the european fisheries fund, according to the criteria laid down, will have the advantage of not being a burden on the general budget and will be applied to all future expenditure by the member states concerned. i have thus expressed my keen interest in the adoption of the reform of financing for the fisheries sector, which will certainly have the effect of improving the current situation of poverty in which small fishermen in particular are forced by the effects of the current economic crisis and the provisions in force in this field.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it allows for increased eu co-financing for the countries with the greatest difficulties, while reducing the national effort required to use the funds. all this is very important and today's vote finally recognizes it. we should remember that the coastal communities most dependent on fishing are not exempt from the current crisis scenario, to which unfortunately must be added the problems caused by years of decline and disruption.
in writing. − in order to ensure that member states continue, even in a situation of financial crisis such as the present one, to implement the european fisheries fund programmes and to provide funding for projects, we consider it appropriate to apply a 10 percentage point increase to the co-financing rates applicable to the priority axis of the programmes, as regards newly certified expenditure submitted during the period in question. this increase will not impose an additional financial burden on the community budget, since the total financial allocation of the fund to the countries and programmes concerned during the period in question will not be altered. this commission proposal to increase union co-financing for the countries with the greatest difficulties has been an imperative for a long time and unfortunately comes too late. given the urgency of the situation, we agree with the rapporteur that it should be adopted at first reading in the form in which it has been presented by the commission, despite some limitations.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr ferreira. the commission's proposal to increase union co-financing for the countries experiencing the greatest difficulties, by proportionately reducing the national effort required to use the funds, has been a need of many for too long, and i, as rapporteur, fear that it is too late. that is why we must vote on it very urgently.
in writing. − whereas, in order to ensure that member states continue to implement european fisheries fund (eff) programmes and provide funding for projects, the commission proposal contains provisions which would allow the amounts paid to these countries to be increased during the period in which they benefit from the support mechanisms; i am therefore in favour of this proposal, since it will not impose any additional financial burden on the overall budget, since the total financial allocation of the edf to the countries and programmes concerned during the period in question will not be altered.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i am convinced of the importance of the commission's proposal to increase european union co-financing for the countries most in difficulty in this respect. the continuing economic and financial crisis is putting increasing pressure on national financial resources. in order to ensure that member states continue to implement european fisheries fund programmes in practice, it is necessary to increase the amounts paid to these countries during the period in which they benefit from the support mechanisms.
in writing. - i am in favour of these amendments to the european fisheries fund. the measure has no cost to the union as the funds advanced to these member states in economic difficulties will be offset by the end of the programme. it is right to anticipate these funds, otherwise the countries which have suffered the most from the economic crisis will not be able to implement projects relating to the financing of a sensitive sector such as fisheries. it is a dutiful act of solidarity.
in writing. − the continuing economic and financial crisis is putting increasing pressure on national financial resources, in different ways in different member states. in particular, the last decade has seen an increase in disparities and imbalances within the european union: the existing inequalities are explained in many ways. one of these concerns the ability to access and use union funds. in this context, it is necessary to refocus the priorities of the european fisheries fund, mainly towards supporting productive activity - such as the renewal and modernisation of fleets to enhance their sustainability, the improvement of the selectivity of fishing gear and the replacement of engines - and the development of coastal communities. the vote will therefore give impetus to the implementation of the common fisheries policy and the law of the sea.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the processing of agricultural products. this measure is of prime political importance: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. the benefits of the measure, extending even beyond the calculations envisaged in this connection, due to the known effects of interdependence of markets and sectors, far exceed the impact of the quota on the specific sector. the importance of the measure as a sign of the effectiveness and vitality of the institutions should not be underestimated, particularly in the face of the recurrent isolationist and insular tendencies which, in the course of the global crisis, can sometimes appear as suggestive placebo solutions for economies and societies suffering from tensions and widespread discomfort.
in writing. - the long-running controversy over growth hormone-treated meat has damaged both sides over the past two decades and has led to a significant decline in european exports. this agreement would resolve the issue gradually, allowing the lifting of the retaliatory sanctions imposed by canada and the united states, affecting the european beef market by only 0.36% and benefiting economically several member states of the union, including italy. i also consider that the counterparty has already fulfilled its obligations during 2011, so i voted in favour.
in writing. - the regulation in question must be adopted as soon as possible. at this time, also in the light of recent disputes, there is a need to build up confidence and to close the gap in this area of transatlantic trade relations. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the dispute over hormone-treated beef has reduced trade and had a significant impact on both sides of the atlantic - with the result that partners with close trade relations have become entrenched in a long and unconstructive trade dispute - i am voting in favour of the adoption of the regulation in question by the european parliament and the council, which will bring mutual benefits, strengthen transatlantic trade links and create confidence by improving market access on both sides of the atlantic.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the agreement will increase the eu tariff quota up to 48,200 tonnes. in return, the united states and canada have already suspended retaliatory sanctions on products from 26 member states (except the united kingdom), which, under current trade conditions, are worth more than usd 250 million. one of the main beneficiaries of the lifting of sanctions is italy, with a trade value of more than $99 million. the resolution is mutually beneficial, parliament has taken a step which will allow the european agricultural industry to plan for the future anew and which will strengthen transatlantic trade links.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it can help to strengthen trust between the european union on the one hand and the united states and canada on the other, by closing the gaps in this area in transatlantic trade relations. the conclusion of this agreement would enable the european union to meet its commitments to resolve the dispute over hormone-treated beef and provide further impetus for further economic and trade integration.
in writing. - this report closes the dispute between the eu and the usa over retaliatory measures applied to european agricultural products by the usa and canada, following the european union's decision, which i believe is absolutely correct, to ban the importation into our countries of meat containing prohibited hormones. the usa and canada had imposed heavy duties on a number of agricultural products and products from the eu, causing extremely heavy economic damage to our producers. finally, thanks to mediation by the european commission, a memorandum of understanding was reached which resolves the longstanding issue, while maintaining the ban on the importation into europe of meat treated with prohibited hormones. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this measure, which puts an end to a trade war which has been raging for many years between the european union on the one hand and the united states of america and canada on the other. the sanctions imposed by the north american counterpart will finally be lifted and will bring important benefits to the european agri-food industry and in particular to the italian industry, which sees the transatlantic market as an important outlet for its trade.
in writing. the proposal we voted on this morning aims to amend an existing european parliament regulation opening an autonomous tariff quota for imports of quality beef from the united states and canada, thus ending the longstanding transatlantic dispute over hormones in beef. the solution to the trade dispute which has been proposed has my agreement and my vote in favour. in particular, the eu will gradually increase the tariff quota for high-quality beef not treated with growth hormones to a total of 21 500 tonnes (first stage) and subsequently to 48 200 tonnes. so there will inevitably be a gradual reduction or suspension of sanctions on european union products by the united states and canada. in order to make enforcement more effective, the timing for the first and second phases in the united states and canada protocols is the same: the second phase will start on 1 august 2012, according to both protocols. our request to the commission is to ensure that the settlement of the dispute will ensure that beef imports will be in line with eu requirements.
in writing. - this report aims to end two decades of trade relations between europe and the united states in agricultural products, which were affected by the controversy over beef hormones in the late 1980s. the agreement reached with the united states and subsequently with canada provides for duty-free quotas for american meat not treated with hormones in exchange for the elimination of trade restrictions. the rapid and smooth adoption of this regulation will therefore be mutually beneficial, helping to rebuild and strengthen trade links on both sides of the atlantic.
in writing. - the report under consideration today is of particular importance as it proposes to amend certain basic regulations relating to the common commercial policy in order to ensure their compatibility with the new provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the aim is to ensure that the european union's trade defence instruments are not weakened by the introduction of procedural changes which, although necessary following the entry into force of the treaty, were likely to have significant consequences on substantial aspects of trade defence proceedings. in this context, one of the objectives of the regulation proposed by the european commission in march 2009 is to ensure that the exercise of the commission's implementing powers is not monitored by the council or the european parliament, but by the member states of the european union. i welcome this report and hope that it will be further strengthened in the course of the subsequent negotiations with the council in order to reiterate the importance of the european union's trade defence instruments, which represent a real possibility of protection for european companies against anti-competitive commercial practices by non-european competitors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending the regulations on trade policy for the sake of rationalization, regulatory coordination and adaptation to the changed conditions of international trade, in the light of the experience gained in the years since the lisbon treaty. in particular, the proposed amendments meet requirements of transparency and effectiveness from an executive and practical point of view, with the possibility of adopting immediately applicable measures. the delegation of power to the commission shall be provided for in terms which are balanced and satisfy parliament's prerogatives, with appropriate guarantees as to the necessary flow of information on the content of the exercise of that power, its renewal and the reserved power of revocation. i also think it is realistic and balanced to have the provision for assistance to the commission by the member states in the adoption and application of urgent implementing measures in the form of a regulation. the inclusion of regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 in the scope of the new framework indicates an appreciated sensitivity to legislative activity which does not lose sight, in the detail of the regulations, of the cultural horizon of our time and the star of european values.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because it aims to adapt 26 regulations in the field of the common commercial policy, in line with the new primary law provisions of the lisbon treaty. for example, the legislator will be able to delegate non-essential legislative acts to the executive, while retaining the right to revoke the delegation at any time. the regulations concerned are mainly designed to allow the use of trade safeguard measures, apart from the regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community. the commission proposal provides for adjustments only where council decisions were specifically provided for. because of these special decision-making mechanisms, european trade policy has so far been largely explicitly excluded from the comitology procedure. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the adoption of the regulation (eu) this special scheme has now come to an end.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the trade policy regulation. the omnibus proposal for a regulation aims to adapt 26 council legal acts in the field of the european union's common commercial policy to the post-lisbon system of delegated and implementing acts. unlike the text voted in the commission, the report adopted today has made some amendments aimed at strengthening the anti-dumping rules. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against counterfeiting.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims to adapt 26 regulations in the field of the common commercial policy to the new primary law provisions of the treaty of lisbon. in this case, it is intended to bring those regulations into line with the requirements of articles 290 and 291 tfeu and with the provisions of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. in order to include european trade policy in the comitology procedure, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the report deals with a set of amendments to regulations on commercial policy, mainly on the use of safeguard measures. it is precisely because of the specific nature of these measures and the sometimes necessary rapid changes, that the instrument of the delegated act has been used, which allows the commission to intervene when necessary. the commission also fully agreed on the need to restore the 15 month deadline for the imposition of duties and anti-dumping measures. the vote is definitely in favour.
in writing. - i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur who has been able to propose in the committee on international trade a number of amendments to a proposal from the european commission which contained some absolutely unacceptable steps such as the extension of the time taken to reach a decision to introduce trade duties. these are acts which are necessary to protect our production system and which therefore require rapid action and not additional bureaucracy or time-consuming measures. i voted in favour of this measure, which is very technical, partly because it was necessary to adapt these regulations to the new comitology.
in writing. - we have today been asked to approve at first reading the report by mrs quisthoudt-rowohl on the proposal for a regulation known as 'omnibus i', which aims to align certain legislative acts on trade policy, including the anti-dumping regulation, with the new 'comitology' procedures. i am pleased that the proposal was adopted by a large majority - to ensure that the text is not weakened, but if necessary further strengthened, in the course of subsequent negotiations with the council and to stress the importance of trade defence instruments, which are the only possible protection for european companies against anti-competitive commercial practices by non-european competitors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to bring certain commercial policy legislation, including the anti-dumping regulation, into line with the new comitology procedures. the text voted today, supporting the arguments put forward by european industry, of which the 'made in italy' is a source of pride, even in a time of crisis, strongly supports trade defence instruments, which represent the only possibility of protection for european companies against anti-competitive commercial practices by non-european competitors.
in writing. - although it is only a declaration of intent for the moment, i support the guidelines for the new community budget for 2013, as outlined by my colleague mr la via. i particularly welcome the call for caution in setting new expenditure commitments, the rigour in the area of human resources and the call for a more conscious and targeted use of european funds in order to maximise their usefulness and effectiveness.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr la via, for whom i voted in favour. the guidelines are the first step in the annual budgetary procedure. it is therefore necessary that the 2013 budget forecast is well coordinated and responsible and that the measures taken so far to counter the economic crisis now encourage stable and sustainable growth, including through targeted investments that promote sustainable economic development. the 2013 budget should therefore focus on the implementation of the union's priorities and programmes, including the recovery of overdue payments, especially in the light of the end of the current period of the multiannual financial framework. the budget of the european union is one of the most important instruments for demonstrating solidarity between member states and between generations, and, especially in the light of the financial crisis, it also represents an important added value. the collective efforts made at european union level to ensure the effectiveness of the actions undertaken must be intensified more than ever today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2013 budget because, firstly, i agree with the statement that the eu budget is an instrument that demonstrates solidarity between member states and between generations and that it represents a substantial common saving for the general welfare. secondly, i believe that it is more than appropriate to promote the growth of smes, which have proven to be the key pillar of economic growth in europe, having created 85% of new jobs in the eu between 2002 and 2012; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. thirdly, i share the urgency of recovering the arrears in payments and commitments, which are close to eur 152 000 000 for 2013, in order to respect the amounts of the financial programming and so as not to jeopardise the eu's zero-debt policy. finally, i welcome the agreement on the financing of the additional costs of the iter project, which will not jeopardise the proper implementation of eu policies during the last year of financial programming.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2013 budget guidelines. the year 2013 is a watershed moment in europe's path to economic recovery, and after the necessary austerity measures, it is finally time to boost growth. the european parliament, therefore, also because of the economic situation we are facing, has a responsibility to clearly identify the strategies it considers most appropriate and the points it considers to be priorities in order to combat the current economic crisis and its depressing effects on the real economy, in particular the resulting unemployment. i therefore fully agree with the principles expressed in this resolution, and in particular i stress the importance of promoting growth by promoting youth employment and facilitating small and medium-sized enterprises, objectives which are in line with the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. in congratulating the rapporteur, mr la via, i join him in stressing the need to provide adequate funding in order to meet the commitments made in previous years without involving the budget for next year.
in writing. − the adoption of the 'general guidelines', although only the first step in the long and complex process leading to the adoption of the 2013 eu budget, should be an opportunity to strongly underline the role of the european parliament in the future negotiations, especially with the council, which is strongly aiming to influence the guidelines that the commission will express in its draft budget. it must be clear from the outset that the budgetary approach cannot avoid the urgency of reviving sustainable growth and quality employment, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the european commission and the council cannot continue on the path of austerity which leaves no room for the needs of economic growth which creates new jobs. we have a duty to call for measures to support growth and employment, finally going beyond the mere need for a balance between investment and austerity. we also want to draw attention to the worrying situation of payments: the experience of 2011 and 2012 must not be repeated and the council can no longer claim to decide a priori on a final level of payments on the basis of political considerations, without taking into account the impact on commitments made in the past.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the general guidelines for the 2013 budget as they take note of the economic crisis affecting europe, and propose serious and decisive measures for our future, such as the need to intensify collective efforts for the effectiveness of actions undertaken, specific actions and increased budgetary efforts to promote growth and employment. support for competitiveness is essential, with investments that would increase jobs, especially for young people who, through education, mobility and technological knowledge, are the main actors in the future results that are hoped to be achieved with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i believe that an effective solution to the delicate issue of payments must be found as soon as possible, especially since 2013 will be the last year of the current multiannual financial framework, by which time a significant amount of outstanding payments will have to be settled. i also believe that it is essential to use the union budget to boost the economy and get out of the crisis by promoting growth and, in particular, youth employment and small and medium-sized enterprises, which, let us not forget, are the backbone of the european economy. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i am very pleased with the outcome of today's vote on the guidelines for the 2013 eu budget. as you all know, it is not easy to talk about the budget in times of crisis, especially when we consider the measures taken in each individual member state. balancing austerity and rigour on the one hand, with targeted investment and ambitious targets on the other, is not easy. but the message i wanted to send with the report which has just been adopted by a large majority in this house is that we must use the proven added value of the union budget, as an investment budget, to bring europe out of the crisis and stimulate growth, development and employment, with particular reference to youth employment. these are the objectives of our political action, these are the answers we want to give to our citizens, showing them that european resources, used efficiently and in a coordinated way, are capable of producing tangible effects in their daily lives.
in writing. − in order to respond adequately to the current economic and social crisis and to prevent future crises, the european union must adopt new integration measures and common instruments, such as automatic sanctions, in the context of the budget deficit procedure. its annual budget must be able to support the member states' recovery policies and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. promoting growth and jobs requires specific actions and increased efforts to support competitiveness, innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises. the ad hoc austerity measures already adopted will have to be accompanied by targeted investments that promote sustainable economic development. the budget of the european union must play a decisive role in this context, as a tool to ensure timely and coordinated action in all sectors to mitigate the effects of the crisis on the real economy and to act as a catalyst to stimulate investment, growth and job creation in europe. we therefore call for the adoption of a responsible and results-oriented budget for 2013, based on quality spending and on the optimal and timely use of the existing eu funding instruments.
in writing. − whereas the budget of the european union must play a decisive role as a tool to ensure timely and coordinated action in all sectors in order to mitigate the effects of the crisis on the real economy and to act as a catalyst to stimulate investment, growth and job creation in europe; agreeing with the importance of well-coordinated, consistent and timely implementation of shared political priorities and commitments at national and european level, i vote in favour.
in writing. − the budget of the european union is a strategic instrument for demonstrating solidarity between member states and between generations. given its extraordinary impact on the real economy and the daily lives of european citizens, the 2013 budget should have a leverage effect on growth and employment, stimulating investment, creating stability at european level and helping the european union emerge from the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - with the adoption of the budgetary guidelines, we presented the priorities for expenditure for 2013, thus trying to make our weight felt as co-legislators with the council, so that the needs of this assembly can be made known. as also mentioned in the text on the guidelines, we ask governments and therefore the council not to propose artificial cuts to the 2013 community budget which would otherwise risk not covering real needs and outstanding payments. we want to avoid a repeat of last december, when the european commission was unable to honour its contractual commitments. the themes of the 2013 budget will be youth employment and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). without denying the importance of these two chapters, i would like to point out that agriculture remains a central issue in the development of european spending policy, where operators in the sector have long been calling for simplification and transparency for the paying agencies, and above all for clarity on the sanctions to be applied to those who do not comply with the commitments made under the cap. a budget at least as large or larger than last year's is therefore essential to keep alive such a vital sector for the whole eu.
in writing. − the eu's anti-crisis measures to date have been designed to help restore growth and target investment in order to foster sustainable economic development and job creation. for these reasons, the 2013 budget must be as accountable and results-oriented as possible, based on quality spending and on the optimal and timely use of existing eu funding instruments, investing in growth and jobs, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and the entry of young people into the labour market. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this proposal to set up a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, since it is undeniable that these problems have a crossborder dimension, affecting all the countries of the union, and it would therefore be desirable to propose common and shared solutions to combat these phenomena. italy can be seen as a positive example in this respect, thanks in particular to the measures taken in recent years by former interior minister roberto maroni, which have enabled extraordinary results to be achieved, which had never been achieved before. the basis for a serious fight against organised crime and illegal activities in general must therefore necessarily be a clear political will. let us hope that europe can show the same determination: we in the league will endeavour to bring our ideas and initiatives to brussels and strasbourg, which have certainly brought good results in italy.
in writing. the vote decided the setting up of a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which will have various tasks. first, the commission - which will be composed of 45 members - will have to analyse and assess the current state of implementation of the union's anti-corruption legislation as well as monitor its compatibility with fundamental rights. to establish the necessary contacts, it will have to make visits and organise hearings with the institutions of the european union, international, european and national institutions, national parliaments and governments of the member states and third countries, and with representatives of the scientific community, the business community and civil society. the term of office of the special committee shall be 12 months from the date of its establishment, with the possibility of extension.
in writing. − the european judicial area must be based on a shared judicial culture among professionals, the judiciary and prosecutors, which is not exclusively based on union law, but develops through mutual knowledge and understanding of national judicial systems. i therefore agree with the proposals contained in this resolution, particularly as regards the fate of the pilot project of mr mazzoni and mr berlinguer. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − according to the latest data, judicial training is currently far from the commission's target of being accessible to half of the legal professionals in the european union. to this end, it is necessary to coordinate the training provided by existing judicial training institutions and to facilitate and promote professional dialogue and contacts. this vote could also allow judges to take part in erasmus exchanges and training courses abroad. in addition, it lays the foundations for the organisation of an annual forum where judges at all levels can hold discussions on areas that have caused recent litigation or legal difficulties. this will encourage discussion, establish contacts and create channels of communication. this forum could also provide competent authorities, training providers and experts, including universities and professional organisations, with the opportunity to discuss judicial training policies and the future of legal education in europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which openly condemns an abuse which, as in the cocoa sector and in all others, must be fought and opposed: the exploitation of child labour. although cultures and economic realities different from ours may tolerate or even see child labour as a source of support, there is no child who does not have the right to a childhood and i will continue to fight for this.
in writing. - i agree first of all with the call to those countries which have not yet done so to ratify the un convention on the rights of the child and ilo conventions 138 and 182 and to implement them as soon as possible. this must be the first step in raising awareness of the scourge of child labour everywhere. governments shall pay particular attention to the health risks to children involved in cocoa plantation work. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - today, in strasbourg, a resolution was voted in plenary on child labour in the cocoa sector and the european parliament gave its consent to a new international agreement on cocoa trade and production which will also provide valuable instruments to tackle the problem. many children working in cocoa fields are involved in dangerous activities, such as exposure to pesticides and child trafficking. the agreement should also introduce a traceability system controlled by an accredited third body and require signatories to collect and analyse data, resulting from appropriate studies, which can provide clear statistics on child exploitation in the cocoa production sector. the european union, as the world's largest consumer of cocoa and home to many chocolate producers, cannot remain silent in the face of this injustice and cannot fail to take measures to ensure the legality of production.
in writing. - my vote in favour of this resolution is motivated by the need to stress at all times that trade with our international partners must always be conducted with respect for human rights. in this case, the committee on international trade has drawn up a text which accurately highlights the facts of a serious phenomenon such as child labour in the cocoa production sector. it will be difficult to eradicate these phenomena, but it is the duty of the european institutions to try to do so, even with resolutions such as this one.
in writing. - it is estimated that there are over 215 million child workers in the world, 152 million of whom are under 15 years old and 115 million of whom are engaged in hazardous work. considering that 70% of the world's cocoa production is grown in west africa and that some 7.5 million people are employed in cocoa production in that region, there is a need to protect children and young people from exploitation. this vote calls on all those involved in the cultivation and processing of cocoa beans and cocoa products - namely governments, the global industry, cocoa producers, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and consumers - to take their respective responsibilities in the fight against all forms of forced child labour and child trafficking, to share expertise and to work together to eliminate child labour from the cocoa supply chain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 2010 international cocoa agreement. in 2010, the conference of the parties agreed on a new text, which effectively replaced the 2001 agreement. it is an important step forward as it aims to bring more transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the lives of 50 million people worldwide depend. in particular, the agreement aims to promote international cooperation in the world cocoa economy; provide an appropriate forum for discussion of all cocoa-related issues between governments and with the private sector; to contribute to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of the member states; seeking fair prices that generate fair revenues for producers and consumers; to promote an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy; to promote transparency in the operation of the world cocoa economy and the removal of barriers to trade. the 2010 international cocoa agreement will therefore have a positive impact on all actors involved in the cocoa economy, with the hope that it will also translate into tangible long-term benefits for small farmers and their communities.
in writing. - on the report on the approval of the 2010 cocoa agreement, i considered giving a favourable opinion. i believe that europe must act responsibly to ensure that the world cocoa market is fair, is socially and environmentally sustainable and guarantees a high quality final product, also because we europeans are the world's largest consumers of chocolate. i also welcome the promotion of cocoa production by small local farms, and i believe that this promotes a quality product and at the same time represents an opportunity for sustainable development for many countries. finally, i would like to stress the importance of promoting greater international cooperation and dialogue between all the stakeholders.
in writing. − this agreement will promote greater transparency in a market which is constantly expanding and with a constantly growing demand and will provide more scope for projects to support national cocoa economies and their capacity to respond to this demand. it also aims to pursue the objectives of a sustainable cocoa economy and the promotion of cocoa quality, and stresses the need to develop food safety procedures as well as ensuring fair prices and fair revenues. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr moreira on the new international cocoa agreement of 2010 replacing the previous one ratified in 2001. the new agreement aims to establish a more cooperative relationship between producers and consumers, so as to provide greater guarantees of production and market access for producers. given that the sector in question provides employment for over 50 million people, a new agreement was needed which took due account of the changing international circumstances, which have affected the structure of the cocoa supply to a greater or lesser extent. the same concern is expressed about the employment of children, which, in this sector as in others, must be combated with increasing determination and which deserves to be dealt with in a separate report.
in writing. − more efficiency, but also more transparency and sustainability are a top priority for a sector that employs more than 50 million people worldwide. i am in favour of the text and objectives of the agreement, which will benefit a large number of actors in the cocoa sector.
in writing. − the 2010 international cocoa agreement will replace the existing 2001 agreement to which the union is a contracting party. as the 2010 agreement aims to create fairer and more sustainable global trading conditions for cocoa by strengthening international cooperation between producers and consumers under the icco framework and improving transparency and sustainability in a sector on which the lives of 50 million people worldwide depend, i am voting in favour of the agreement.
in writing. - i congratulate mr vital moreira on his work. the recommendation adopted today, in the light of the draft council decision (09771/2011) and the draft international cocoa agreement 2010 (08134/2011), represents the firm belief of the whole parliament in the positive impact that the international cocoa agreement 2010 will have on all actors involved in the cocoa economy. it is also desirable that this agreement translates into real and long-term benefits for small farmers and their communities. the european parliament's approval of the proposal highlights another problem which must be brought to the attention of the european union and which requires decisive action: the exploitation of minors in cocoa production.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to achieve the objectives of the new international agreement on cocoa of 2010, in particular the promotion of cooperation in the global economy of this raw material. the objective should be to create the conditions for fairer and more sustainable global trade by strengthening international cooperation between producers and consumers within the legal framework of the international cocoa organisation. this would bring more transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the lives of 50 million people around the world depend.
in writing. − i am in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the 2010 international cocoa agreement, an important and significant step for international trade aimed at strengthening, also at world level, the national cocoa economies of the eu countries. the merits of this agreement include: recognition of the need to ensure fair prices and fair revenues, while respecting environmentally, economically and socially sustainable policies and transparency schemes, in order to promote the quality of cocoa by developing food safety procedures to protect the final consumer. i also think it is important to pay attention to child labour in cocoa fields, which is a significant problem that deserves proper recognition and defence in an ad hoc resolution.
in writing. − the international cocoa agreement signed in 2010 seems to take due account of both the interests of the producing countries and those, equally legitimate, of the countries where this product is processed and used in the food industry. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − promoting international cooperation in the global cocoa economy, providing an appropriate forum for discussion of all cocoa issues between governments and with the private sector, and contributing to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of the member countries are the objectives of the new cocoa agreement. this vote will seek to achieve fair prices that generate fair revenues for producers and consumers. this requires the promotion of an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy. trade barriers will also be removed to promote and encourage the consumption of chocolate and cocoa products. the 2010 international cocoa agreement will have a positive impact on all actors involved in the cocoa economy and is expected to translate into tangible long-term benefits for smallholder farmers and their communities.
in writing. the text of the new international cocoa agreement has as its main objective the promotion of international cooperation in the world cocoa economy, while also contributing to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of the member countries. overall, i believe that this agreement can bring greater transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the lives of 50 million people around the world depend. the cocoa crop is a source of income for the producing, processing and consuming countries and it is worth remembering that the european chocolate industry is the largest in the world. for these reasons i have expressed my support for the report by mr moreira.
in writing. − diabetes is one of the most widespread and common threats to eu citizens among non-communicable diseases. it is estimated that one tenth of the european population is affected by this disease. we must also take into account that this figure, taking into account the progressive ageing of the population, is set to increase, with forecasts reaching 16% in 2030. i therefore believe that we must respond to this threat in a concrete way and i think that one of the priority actions must be the choice to focus on prevention and information. european citizens need to be increasingly informed about the possible consequences of their dietary and social lifestyles on their lives and about the simple rules to be followed to avoid the onset of diabetes. on the other hand, in addition to prevention, more information is also needed in the management phase of the disease. in fact, some studies show that 75 percent of the sick are not receiving the most appropriate treatment. investing in research and leveraging prevention and a widespread information campaign are the initiatives to be implemented as soon as possible to reduce the impact of the disease on the european population.
in writing. − diabetes is one of the most common non-communicable diseases and is estimated to affect over 32 million eu citizens and is increasingly common, especially among children. i believe that in order to clearly identify risk factors, to carry out and implement research, to promote prevention and awareness-raising policies, it is appropriate to do so. in addition, standardised common criteria and methods for the collection of data on diabetes should be developed in order to coordinate, collect, monitor and manage, in collaboration with the member states, epidemiological data and data on direct and indirect costs related to the prevention and management of the disease, as no cure exists at present. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the european union has extended its remit to include health, and i believe it is appropriate to promote the exchange of best practice between member states, improve the coordination of european research activities on diabetes and encourage interdisciplinary collaboration. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − diabetes is one of the most common non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect over 32 million eu citizens, or about 10% of the total population. due to the obesity epidemic, the ageing of the european population and other factors yet to be determined, the number of people with diabetes in europe is expected to increase by 16.6% by 2030. the vote lays the foundations for the development and implementation of a targeted eu strategy on the prevention, diagnosis and management of diabetes, as well as on diabetes information and research. common standardised criteria and methods for the collection of data on diabetes and for the establishment of coordination tools between the various member states will need to be developed. the member states will thus have to develop, implement and monitor national diabetes plans aimed at health promotion, reduction of risk factors, prediction, prevention, early diagnosis and treatment of diabetes.
in writing. - my vote on this resolution on the accession process of the fyrom was decidedly against. our position is firmly against the accession of this country to the eu, firstly because of the profound democratic deficit in its society and government institutions (which is also recognised in the resolution itself), but above all because the acceptance of fyrom into the union would also constitute a legitimation of the unacceptable historical falsifications promoted by the government of this country over the last 20 years, to the detriment of the cultural heritage on which the historical identity of europe and the west is based. i am also absolutely against statements that praise the country's commitment to the integration of the roma community. i therefore voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as it positively highlights some crucial elements of the country's eu accession process. the parliament's proposal is in the spirit of the commission's 2011 progress report, which welcomed the country's good performance in terms of political criteria, the acquis communautaire and the development of the market economy, but noted some remaining weaknesses, most notably the achievement of a full rule of law, reflected in the general inefficiency of the public administration and the failure to complete the internal market. in particular, i voted against the proposal to delete article 15 of this report because i believe that the identity of the macedonian people cannot and should not be degraded or denied. i also remain convinced of the need for the european parliament to promote dialogue at regional level and to promote the country's integration process while respecting the efforts now under way and the rights of all the parties concerned.
in writing. - i am opposed to the forthcoming accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that some progress has been made - progress in some respects too - just think of the last elections, economic reforms or the end of the parliamentary boycott. i am, however, puzzled by the accession, because there is still too much distance between the social and political institutions of the balkan country and those of the members of the european union. the sudden entry of a state, in which there is still separation and distrust between ethnic groups, could lead to an outbreak of tension within the union and slow down the path of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia towards a pluralist society.
in writing. - today's vote on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) takes account of the difficult challenges facing the country. although much remains to be done, i am pleased with the progress made in the social field and in the fight against corruption, considering that in the last five years the country has gained 40 positions in the "tansparency international" corruption perception index. however, recent serious incidents of violence, the worst since 2001 when the country came to the brink of civil war, pitting the muslim-albanian minority against the orthodox christian-macedonian majority, are of concern. in line with the 2011 progress report, i deplore the risk that forms of power sharing will institutionalize ethnicities and transform the country into a bi-national state, putting democratic principles at risk. i hope that the fundamental freedoms and rights guaranteed by the rule of law will be respected.
in writing. − the commission's 2011 progress report on eu enlargement to fyrom confirmed for the third consecutive year its positive assessment of policy criteria, the acquis communautaire and the development of the market economy, while noting some weaknesses in the area of the rule of law, which are reflected in the overall efficiency of the public administration and the internal market. the fact that for three years now no decision has been taken on the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a matter of grave concern. i think it is time to overcome the current stalemate, also to avoid fueling a general movement of disappointment in the country: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore believe, as do the other member states, that athens and skopje must make a real effort to reach a compromise and to overcome the dispute over the country's name.
in writing. - i voted with satisfaction in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by mr preda on the progress made by iceland towards its forthcoming accession to the european union, because i share his generally positive opinion. iceland is a country with a long and established democratic tradition, which has long been cooperating with the european union and has already adopted part of the community acquis by joining the schengen agreements and the european economic area. i am therefore convinced that the attention and respect shown so far for human rights will certainly be confirmed in the new constitution currently being drafted. the icelandic authorities have also provided evidence that the icelandic economy is in a difficult economic situation. i hope that the negotiations on fisheries, which at the moment seem to be the most critical, will also be able to be resolved soon with an agreement which takes account of the interests of all the parties concerned. however, recent polling data, which suggest that 67% of icelanders would oppose membership, raise some concerns: the eu must reverse this negative trend by regaining its credibility.
in writing. − considering that iceland fulfils the copenhagen criteria and that accession negotiations with iceland started on 27 july 2010 and that the screening of the eu acquis is almost complete, it is a fact that iceland's accession to the european union is closer. in addition, the country already cooperates closely with the european union, having acceded to the european economic area, the schengen agreements and the dublin ii regulation, and has therefore already adopted a significant part of the acquis. the icelandic government is promoting a well-informed and balanced debate on the accession process and on the participation of icelandic society in public discussions on accession to the european union. the opening of the european union information centre in iceland is an opportunity for the european union to provide the citizens of the country with all the information possible on all the consequences that accession may have for the country.
in writing. - the recent installation of a new government in bosnia and herzegovina on 10 february brought an end to the political deadlock that had been creating a constraint on the country's development. this provides a good basis for a revival of the european agenda in bosnia and herzegovina. among the most significant actions of the new government, i would mention the initiatives to implement the census, the approval of the state aid laws and the adaptation of the country's constitution to the provisions of the european convention on human rights (echr). i share the proposal put forward by mr pack, we must urge the bosnian authorities to make further efforts and steps towards meeting the eu accession criteria. however, i believe it is essential that bosnia-herzegovina complies with the sejdic-finci judgment, as well as with article 2 of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa), which provides greater guarantees in the field of human rights and democratic principles. the decision to dissolve the local office of the high representative is right and i think it will encourage greater accountability on the part of the bosnian authorities.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i support the prospect of eu membership for bosnia. the european perspective is one of the most unifying factors amongst the people of the country. nevertheless, to go further with the accession negotiations, there is the need to strengthen the rule of law in bosnia. corruption continues to seriously plague its socio-economic and political development. trafficking in human beings, especially women and girls, is still a serious problem there. for these reasons we ask the bosnian government to ensure the establishment of an independent, impartial and effective judicial system in line with eu and international standards. i value this text as a good starting point to encourage bosnia to take further concrete steps to put the country firmly back on track towards the eu.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution on bosnia and herzegovina's progress on the roadmap towards eu membership. the enlargement of the union to the balkan region is one of the eu's most dangerous foreign policy choices, as most of the states in this region (including bosnia and herzegovina) continue to be affected by high levels of government corruption and patronage, strong inter-ethnic tensions and the growing religious fundamentalism of islamic communities. opening the eu's doors to countries that are still heavily affected by socio-political instability is an unacceptable choice, dangerous for the security of eu citizens.
in writing. - i express my support for this resolution, which we are voting at a most appropriate time in the light of the recent political developments in bosnia-herzegovina. after more than a year of deadlock, a new government took office in february and it is hoped that the agreement reached will allow the country to begin the reforms needed to move closer to the eu. in addition to strengthening relations with the other countries in the balkan region and taking full advantage of the integration competences hitherto held by the eu special representative and head of delegation, the country will have to embark on a path towards stabilisation and socioeconomic development that does not leave it behind on the path to accession. as commissioner füle has also pointed out, this path has been followed up to date too slowly and in an uncoordinated manner. i believe that the eu should help bosnia and herzegovina by supporting it in setting a clear agenda with the main objectives of fighting corruption at all levels of society, too high unemployment and the precarious state of the judiciary, the main factors that have so far slowed down investment and growth.
in writing. - this report, while highlighting the many obstacles to bosnia and herzegovina's accession to the european union, is nevertheless intended to state that the country must join. i do not believe that a country which is deeply divided internally and therefore incapable of producing laws and reforms, marked by corruption, the lack of an independent judiciary, insufficient legislative, executive or budgetary powers, and characterised by weak social dialogue and rising youth unemployment, can fulfil the commitments and obligations imposed by accession to the european union, so i voted against.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution, although there is no shortage of conclusions in mr pack's report which i can support. what does not convince me is the underlying argument, the idea that, despite the critical points, the process of bosnia-herzegovina's accession to the european union must proceed without pause. there are still too many doubts about the full powers of the balkan state. there are too many questions about the effective independence of the judiciary, which is a prerequisite for the rule of law. finally, there are too many criticisms that can be made of the country in terms of its economic fabric. the european union's role as a driving force for development and political stability requires a certain degree of convergence between the member states, which bosnia and herzegovina currently lacks.
in writing. − bosnia and herzegovina has been recognised as a potential candidate since the thessaloniki summit in 2003. the country has been part of the stabilisation and association process since 2000, but the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) was only signed in 2008; however, the treaty has not yet entered into force and the application for accession to the union has not yet been formally submitted. the ratification of the agreement by the last member state in february 2011 was supposed to lead to the entry into force of the saa within 40 days, but the failure of bosnia to comply with obligations under previous agreements led to the freezing of the saa. the commitments in question concern the adoption of state aid laws, the national census and the implementation of the judgments of the european court of human rights, which called for the amendment of the constitution to extend the passive electorate to members of ethnic minorities. despite the continuing difficulties of the internal political situation, i believe it is in our best interests to continue to maintain the european anchorage of the country, the only guarantee of stability and progress. in the current scenario, the enhanced eu presence on the ground plays a key role and can help to give new impetus to the country's internal reform process and thus to its european perspective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall vote in accordance with the guidelines of my group, but that does not prevent me from expressing some of my views, even if they differ slightly from those of the group. our parliament's observers have verified that the russian elections were conducted in an orderly manner, with full guarantees for voters in respect of their freedom to cast their votes and the guarantee of secrecy of the vote. internet footage also allowed for remote control. president putin is certainly a strong, authoritative and enduring figure in russian politics but this does not automatically imply irregularity in the vote. in this sense i want to emphasize how dissent to putin was also guaranteed in his street demonstrations. the european parliament must take this into account by recognising an election result which saw vladimir putin elected president of russia, whether it likes it or not.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, it is again a pleasure to deal with the latest developments on eu activities in kazakhstan on behalf of vice-president/high representative ashton. kazakhstan is a key player in the wider region of central asia and an influential actor in international forums. it has recently held the chairmanship of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and the organisation for islamic cooperation (oic). since its independence 20 years ago, it has been the european union’s policy to support kazakhstan’s economic and political progress. the eu has a strategic interest to further deepen our involvement with kazakhstan and to fully develop mutual political cooperation potentials, especially considering the rapidly evolving regional integration dynamics. kazakhstan is a pragmatic partner, open to reform and willing to explore opportunities. the eu is also an important trade and investment partner for kazakhstan. the recent start of negotiations on a new enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan was a sign of the importance that the eu attaches to its cooperation with kazakhstan. however, strengthening eu-kazakhstan relations does not – and cannot – occur independently from the progress of political reforms in kazakhstan. the respect for common values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights are the basis for deepening our relations. this is a statement we jointly made with kazakhstan in 2009, and we stand by it. therefore, we maintain our position that the success of negotiations on the new agreement will be influenced by the advancement of political reforms and fulfilment of kazakhstan’s international commitments. in this context, we are concerned about the recent developments and the overall slow progress of political reform in kazakhstan, including the limited implementation of international commitments. according to independent observers from the osce, both the early presidential and early parliamentary elections in 2011 and 2012 fell short of meeting democratic principles. for the first time since kazakhstan’s independence, we have seen considerable social tension, including a number of terrorist attacks. the strike of oil workers that started in may 2011 culminated in violent clashes with the police in december 2011, resulting in 17 dead and about 110 injured. to cope with evolving security challenges and threats, the kazakh government has amended a number of laws over the past few months. it has introduced changes that seem to empower the state more and more, while restricting the rights and freedoms of citizens, civil society and political opposition. the vice-president/high representative received several questions from honourable members of the parliament about these developments and about the eu’s approach, opinions and actions taken. she and her service are actively following the situation in kazakhstan. over the past 11 months there have been more than 10 statements issued by catherine ashton herself, and by the eu, at the osce permanent council. on 17 december 2011, immediately after the violent clashes, the high representative’s spokesperson published a statement expressing concerns, calling for immediate investigation of the events and a peaceful solution to the situation of the striking oil workers. the european external action service and the eu delegation in astana have maintained regular contacts with the authorities, calling on kazakhstan to uphold its international obligations and commitments, in particular regarding freedom of expression, freedom of association and assembly. the prosecutor general’s office in kazakhstan is carrying out an investigation, and the eu has requested that this process be thorough, transparent and not used to target any specific group or intimidate the kazakh opposition. on 2 february the vice-president/high representative met with the kazakh minister of foreign affairs, mr kazykhanov, where she expressed her concerns and raised specifically the issue of the arrest of a number of opposition activists, including mr kozlov, leader of the alga opposition movement and mr vinyavski, an independent journalist. as a follow-up, on 9 february the eu delegation in astana carried out a démarche, asking for information on the health of mr kozlov and access to him for his wife and lawyer. as a result, the eu delegation visited mr kozlov in a military hospital in almaty where he had undergone surgery. the eu delegation was able to confirm that he had not been ill-treated and that his surgery was due to a previously-existing health issue, which was not an urgent matter. the eu’s efforts and communication with the authorities, notably the cases discussed in the regular human rights dialogue with kazakhstan, also yielded results. the jailed human rights activist mr zhovtis was granted amnesty and released in february 2012. the trade union lawyer, natalya sokolova, who was sentenced to six years due to her role in the strikes, was also released, on 7 march, and her sentence was replaced by a three-year conditional sentence. the eu has several times expressed its readiness to provide support to kazakhstan for reforms and for the investigation of the events in december, as well as to address the underlying socio-economic problems that led to tensions in the country to begin with.the eu is funding several projects that are already tackling issues that contribute directly to the improvement of the social, economic and political situation. these include projects on regional development, public service reform and modernisation, support for judicial and legal reform, for local governance and for civil society development, as well as several projects relating to democracy and human rights. promoting and supporting reforms in these areas, and further establishing relevant actors, are priorities both for civil society and the kazakhstani authorities, at both central and regional levels. we also expect that the perspective and negotiation process of the new enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement will provide a stimulus for kazakhstan to make more progress, notably in enhancing freedom of expression and freedom of association and encouraging real political pluralism. to motivate progress, we foresee including fundamental political and economic reform commitments in the new agreement, including aligning regulations to eu norms and standards, and essential political clauses on human rights and the rule of law. kazakhstan’s commitments to these fundamental principles will be a strong and clear expression of its will to step up political and economic reforms. wto accession would also be a clear expression that the country is taking economic transition seriously and is ready to commit to multilateral rules and would show that kazakhstan is willing to bring increased legal certainty to our relations. this is in the interest not only of kazakhstan but also of the eu and the wider international community. this is, by no means, a simple process. we are only at the beginning of these important negotiations. however, we are determined to ensure that the european union continues to stand alongside the republic of kazakhstan and its citizens, both as a friend and a partner, on the path of political reform and economic development. in this endeavour we count on the support of the european parliament and we look forward to the resolution that you will adopt tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to mr søvndal for his comprehensive report. i too would like to begin by expressing our solidarity with the families of the victims of the serious clashes in zhanaozen on 16 december and our concern about the further development of events. what began as a trade union dispute has degenerated into a series of serious incidents, in which 17 people have lost their lives, and in the days following the incident, into the arrests of journalists and opposition representatives. it is in the interest of all of us, and as kazakhstan has shown itself, to shed full light on the events and i hope that today's meeting will be a unique opportunity for our parliament to examine what has happened so far and to reiterate our call for an investigation to reassure the international community that those responsible for the events in zhanaozen will be brought to justice and those responsible prosecuted in full respect for the principles of legality and the protection of human rights. the delegation i have the honour of chairing had the opportunity during some of its meetings to hear explanations from the kazakh authorities and also from some ngos which are very active in monitoring events in that country. the willingness of the kazakh authorities to provide explanations and the promises of further clarification are certainly positive elements and should of course be appreciated by all of us. i would also like to stress the need to maintain a certain balance, which i would have liked to see reflected in the text of the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, and which i think would perhaps have been appropriate to postpone until the official investigations have been completed, and which would have been useful to have been accompanied by an official mission of international bodies. the undeniable need to clarify what has happened and the need to call for greater efforts to be made by kazakhstan to improve progress on the road to democracy must also be constantly accompanied by a renewed commitment to an open and constructive dialogue with this country.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask mrs koppa whether, as i too believe that human rights are non-negotiable, she will be among those who oppose the agreement between the european union and india until the italian soldiers are released and the rights of indian citizens are respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the authorities in kazakhstan have announced an international inquiry into the december riots and it is therefore inexplicable why they chose to vote on a resolution of parliament before the international bodies had had a chance to make their findings and the courts had a chance to give a public verdict which would allow us to make more objective assessments. those who have followed the events in kazakhstan over the past few years have been able to appreciate the progress made in improving social dialogue, workers' rights, the independence of the judiciary and democratic development. that is why we are deeply shocked by the deaths in december and we express our deepest sympathy to the victims and hope that the facts, the true facts, will be established. we are talking about a country whose territory still bears the scars of the soviet union, and we are thinking of the difficulties facing the kazakh authorities in governing such a vast territory straddling the european and asian worlds. there are still many steps to be taken, but it seems to us that there are certain people in this parliament who want to ignore what is happening in our partner countries such as china and india, where international jurisdiction and respect for the rules of the market are subordinated to their economic and electoral priorities, while we focus our attention on states which are trying to move forward in the process of developing democracy, a democracy which is slower than we would like, but which must be helped and not hindered.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that developments in kazakhstan are not always the way we imagine them here in europe. but you should also consider where this country comes from. not all countries in the region are improving their lot. for example, not all countries in the region have freedom of religion or respect for minorities. but that is what is guaranteed in kazakhstan, and that is something to consider. we cannot always compare kazakhstan with european standards alone and we must take into account the situation in the region as a whole. of course, human rights violations cannot be ignored, that is beyond doubt. but i think there is not only black and white, there are grayscale levels in between, and we have had good cooperation with the authorities of kazakhstan, with the ambassador and the prosecutor in the last few weeks, also in the central asian delegation. we should simply accompany the kazakh government on the path of democratization, demand democracy, and i think that the partnership agreement to be negotiated is a good way forward.
president of the council. - mr president, thank you for the debate, which i think was both helpful and useful, also in refining our policy. i would like to reiterate that kazakhstan is an important partner for the eu for many reasons. but it is clear that we also have our concerns about the current developments and the slow progress of political reforms. i also think it is necessary to stress that president nazarbayev knows what we stand for. it's precisely because he knows what we stand for that he has chosen to work with us. this is precisely the opportunity for us to express our concerns and our contribution to the direction we would like to see kazakhstan take. we will of course make clear what we expect from kazakhstan as a precondition for signing a new trade agreement. it is very important for us to take this opportunity to emphasize the clear expectations we have. this means that we are of course willing to cooperate with kazakhstan on these issues. this means that the negotiations are an important tool for us both to strengthen relations and to underline the need for and to encourage reforms, both economic and political reforms and reforms in the field of human rights in the broadest sense. i now wish to answer the question of what role we see kazakhstan playing in the region. it is clear that kazakhstan can play a very important role in the whole of central asia. it did so in 2010 in connection with the unrest in kyrgyzstan. we therefore regard kazakhstan as a country which is helping to stabilise the situation in the region. we believe that it is possible to establish even better regional cooperation in central asia and that kazakhstan will play a very important role in this regard, which we would also like to contribute to. i shall take the information from the debate with me. we need to use our presence to develop an even stronger strategic partnership and to develop democratic standards. we must also make use of the negotiations, because they are precisely the ones that give us the opportunity to debate, also on the values that the eu stands for and which kazakhstan is of course familiar with and wants to work with us on. we are also present in astana with our eu delegation, which is also providing practical help in all these areas. thank you for the debate. i'll pass on its contents to mrs ashton the next time i see her.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, thank you again for giving me the opportunity to speak on nigeria on behalf of the high representative. it is a pleasure to be here today to discuss this matter. nigeria is at a crucial juncture. president jonathan’s reform policy can shape nigeria’s future. its democracy is consolidating and its economy is growing rapidly. nigeria has the potential to become the biggest economy in sub-saharan africa within a few years. it plays a major role on the african continent, it was a member of the security council last year and is a member of the human rights commission this year. former president obasanjo recently led the economic community of west african states (ecowas) – african union mission in dakar to monitor the elections and this sent a strong message in support of democracy and people’s rights. i would like to thank the honourable members for their interest in nigeria for recent months. i say this with particular conviction, because i had the pleasure of representing high representative/vice-president ashton at the recent ministerial meeting with nigeria in abuja on 8 february. it was a remarkable occasion and a very positive one. nigeria still faces crucial challenges: the european union strongly condemns the recent attacks carried out by boko haram, with appalling loss of human lives. the christmas bombings of churches and the recent suicide attack on a church in jos on 26 february and again on 11 march are deeply shocking. so are all of the other attacks, including that in kano some weeks ago. they should all be condemned. unfortunately, the number of attacks and human losses are increasing every day in an unacceptable spiral of violence. high representative ashton has repeatedly expressed her solidarity and sympathy with the victims, the injured and their families. i also wish to make use of this opportunity to express our profound sadness at the loss of life of two european hostages in nigeria on 8 march. we condemn in the strongest possible terms criminal actions such as the taking of hostages. our heartfelt condolences go to their families for the irreplaceable loss they have faced. may they find strength in this difficult time. the eu stands alongside the nigerian authorities in their fight against terrorism, to protect all citizens, in particular the most vulnerable, and to preserve the right to life and the rule of law. the root causes of boko haram are many, but it is no coincidence that it is strongest in the north of the country, which has some of the worst socio-economic indicators in africa. nigeria’s north-east region is one of the world’s forgotten emergencies: the grievances there need to be addressed urgently, and we as partners and friends have promised the government to help them do so. boko haram is targeting the secular democratic state, and muslims and christians. nigeria remains a secular state with religious freedom firmly enshrined in its constitution. however, boko haram is trying to exploit the ethno-religious differences, which will always exist in a country as big and diverse as nigeria. nigeria’s complex problems certainly have religious dimensions, but they cannot simply be blamed on religion. we have a well-established regular local human rights dialogue with nigeria, during which all important issues, including freedom of religion or belief, are raised. the most recent such dialogue meeting took place in february this year. the eu is committed to supporting the government and people of nigeria in ensuring religion is not misused to legitimise politically or criminally motivated violence. i would like to add that the eu has been very active on the issue of freedom of religion or belief, especially during the last two years, as many countries – not only nigeria – have experienced a surge of acts of religious hatred and violence. we have used our full range of instruments, either bilaterally or in multilateral fora, in new york and geneva, to be at the forefront of the fight against religious intolerance. we will continue to do so. eu delegations have been requested to follow closely the situation of their host countries and report on issues and actions taken. as required by the eu foreign affairs ministers in february 2011, the overall action of the eu in this respect should be reviewed by the foreign affairs council in the coming months. there are, fortunately, some positive signs of nigerians taking initiatives to ease the situation, such as the association of muslim students, who exposed on facebook the fallacies of boko haram. important leaders of islam in nigeria have rejected boko haram as misguided and murderous fanatics. nigeria’s catholic bishops have highlighted that the boko haram crisis has also brought the best out of many nigerians such as muslims and christians protecting each other. the government is also making progress in developing and implementing a comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy, and several prominent boko haram members have been arrested. during my meetings with the nigerian government in february, i encouraged them to explore this counter-terrorism strategy further. nigeria matters to the wider world. it plays a big stabilising role in the region. it is the fourth-largest oil exporter in the world and the second most important exporter of natural gas to the eu. nigeria is firmly committed to the un, is a major provider of un peacekeepers and is vocal and robust in its support for democracies and freedom. nigeria’s positions in the recent ivorian and libyan crises speak for themselves. in short, i found a strong and open african partner, which in many ways shares our views and our values. the ministerial meeting resulted in several openings, which we should now explore further. one is the agreement on establishing a local dialogue on peace, security and stability, and others openings are nigeria’s interest in climate change and rio+20. it was interesting to hear from nigeria’s leaders how they see their economic development. they are diversifying to reduce their dependence on oil and gas, investing in infrastructure and agriculture, and focusing on job creation for their young and growing population of 160 million people. i heard many times that nigeria strongly encourages european investment and participation in its strong growth. on the other hand, nigeria faces serious challenges, not least widespread poverty. better governance, maintaining ethnic harmony and fighting corruption and crime are some of the big tasks it faces. although nigeria’s human rights record has improved steadily in recent years, there are still areas where further improvement could be achieved. the security situation in the niger delta, although improving, remains fragile. the region is vital for the national economy because of its oil production so ensuring its peaceful development is essential. the eu is currently implementing a eur 200 million programme to assist the development of the region. bricks, stones and words can be used to separate people, but they can also build bridges. therefore, honourable members, i call upon you to use your contacts with nigerians to support and facilitate this absolutely essential bridge-building with nigeria and i look forward to the resolution that the european parliament will adopt tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, in thanking you for a full and substantial statement which goes into the substance with particularly forceful remarks on the situation in nigeria, i would like to publicly remind this house not of the two european citizens in general, but of franco lamolinara and chris mcmanus, that is to say, two men, two people who, out of love for that country, sacrificed their lives at that latitude and who must be considered, i believe, as well as all the nigerian citizens who have lost their lives in recent months, hostages of a particularly cruel strategy. the strategy, that is, that by smuggling the name of god to achieve their own power project, is bringing to its knees the efforts that the nigerian government, people and institutions, nigerian civil society are making to make this country, a leading country within the african area. and so, mr. minister, i say that the real problem of nigeria is not ethnic or religious tension, but that behind ethnic or religious tension are the interests and the power strategies to achieve those interests that have characterized the last few months so negatively. but we must be concerned, because having a clear view does not mean that we can avoid the risk of civil war. because that strategy in many areas of the country is gaining ground. the strategy of fundamentalist groups, which, it is true, make a distorted use of religion to gain a chance in terms of control of energy resources, for example, but at the same time, at this moment, find great weakness in response from a government that seems particularly indecisive. i would ask you to be particularly diligent in carrying out the intentions you have expressed and you will have the support of the whole of parliament in this. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we have seen, the persecution and killing of christians in nigeria continues on a large scale. the latest official figures say that the armed group boko haram, which wants to islamise the country, has killed 1,200 christians in the last two years and forced 35,000 christians to flee. but even in some arab countries, such as egypt and iraq, thousands of christian citizens are discriminated against, sometimes killed or forced into exile. a kind of religious racism against christians is taking place that is accepted almost with resignation or fatalism. in this situation, the international institutions, including europe, and the political and religious figures who play an important role, must raise their voices loudly and forcefully to call on governments to take responsibility. and i would like to see, i add, the so-called moderate muslim citizens who rightly reject extremism, join us in defending the rights of their fellow christians. back in nigeria, there was talk of widespread poverty, widespread poverty for so many millions of people in a country that is extraordinarily rich and could provide well-being for all citizens with great ease. there is a problem, as mrs sargentini has mentioned, which is that of corruption. so pervasive, so pervasive, that it is disrupting the social fabric of the country. with corruption there is no respect for the environment, there is no free market, there is no opportunity for trade and for young people and therefore in the end there is no democracy either. nigeria really needs a serious and prepared leadership class and a lot of honesty, without which it is not possible to speak of a modern country and it is not possible to speak of a democratic country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, among the many misfortunes of nigeria must be mentioned the murder of franco lamolinara and chris mcmanus, two european citizens, in an unfortunate attempt to free them. it is a sad page, not only because of their deaths, but also because of the way in which the operation was coordinated between the countries concerned and because of the apparent absence of a european dimension, mr commissioner. italy complained that it was not well informed about what was going to happen - and that is a problem - but i would like to say to the commissioner that european citizens need a visible face of our common foreign policy, one that can take responsibility on behalf of the member states, particularly where there is a lack of coordination, as in nigeria. today, many people are licking their wounds, the italians who could not join the liberation party, the british for a failed operation and europe for keeping a low profile. we condemn terrorism, which is traditionally a phenomenon entirely alien to african culture, and we call on nigeria to make the greatest possible effort, but we must also learn quickly what the european union is supposed to do if we are to be credible to the european citizens.
member of the commission. − madam president, in the name of vice-president/high representative ashton i would like to thank you for your interest and engagement in eu relations with belarus. eu policy aims to remain engaged with the country and its people. the european union will firstly continue to provide support, both political and financial, to civil society, which is at the forefront of the vital work to secure a democracy, basic rights and freedoms in the country. secondly, we will provide political – and, if necessary, financial – support to the victims of the repression. we cannot leave them alone in a situation where their only hope for release and rehabilitation would be international support. thirdly, we will keep targeting the restrictive measures, thereby reinforcing the political message that we are sending to the belarusian authorities. we are not interested in harming the belarusian people. we aim to target the people who are responsible for repression. it is very clear from this debate that we all believe that the future of belarus is in the hands of the belarusian people. they should have a fair chance to take these decisions, and unfortunately today this is not the case. this is why the eu should continue to engage, and i understand some of the decisions taken will always be discussed in this house. but i believe basically that, as i have heard from this debate, the high representative/vice-president’s line is very much supported by parliament, and we will follow your resolution to be adopted tomorrow very closely.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 15 march, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the commission statement on maritime piracy (2011/2962 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i must note with regret the absence of baroness ashton from this debate. it would have been important for all of us to have heard from him the latest developments in the situation involving the two italian seamen, who are unjustly imprisoned in india after being arrested following a military operation against piracy in which they were involved. i am sorry that i cannot hear baroness ashton's voice in person, but i hope that the commissioner will be able to be more precise in his reply about the progress made in the last few days. this is not just an italian issue, it is a strongly european issue, because, you see, the flag state's exclusive jurisdiction in international waters is a universally recognised principle of international law and its questioning by the indian authorities risks undermining the very essence of the fight against piracy by the international community and by the european union itself, which, as we have said, is involved in the atalanta mission. i therefore appeal to the community institutions to make every possible diplomatic effort to get our soldiers home, to ensure that international law is respected and that they are subjected to a fair and transparent investigation in their country of origin. and then, mr president, let me make a note of the many speeches i have heard from colleagues on the radical left: i am frankly convinced that europe must make a political and diplomatic commitment to help somalia and all the other countries in difficulty to grow, but this cannot be a sufficient response to the many hundreds of hostages, to the families who are waiting for their loved ones at home and who are tired of talking and want concrete answers from the point of view of international security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the problem of piracy is not new to this house and was addressed by this parliament in the 2009 resolution. the case of two italian soldiers, who were arrested on charges of causing the death of two indian fishermen, is well known. in this connection, we welcome the assurances of the high representative for foreign affairs, baroness catherine ashton, who said that she was following the case closely and doing everything possible to resolve it positively, and that the incident should be placed, i quote, 'in the wider context of international cooperation against piracy and more specifically in the framework of the rules for protection on board ships'. but the episode makes us reflect on the fact that piracy in the indian ocean or off the coast of somalia is still a very hot issue. in the context of defence and security policy, the european union launched the atalanta mission in december 2008 and its extension until 2014 was recently approved, but the number of vessels involved has fallen sharply from 35 in 2009 to 10 in 2011. the european union intends, as we know, to coordinate more closely the naval and military forces on board the civilian ships of the member countries which control the red sea, the gulf of aden and the indian ocean. is it useful, then, to establish common rules of engagement, for example? what other coordinated measures does the european union intend to take to protect merchant shipping from pirate attacks? what measures does it intend to take with regard to third countries which do not protect merchant ships passing through the red sea, the gulf of aden and the indian ocean? thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, these are crocodile tears from the international community, which has abandoned somalia to its fate for many years now, by renouncing a strong military presence on the ground that would have helped to prepare the conditions for governance to save that country, which today is in fact a thorn in the side of all civil coexistence. it is a crocodile's tears, even those of those who protest against the presence of military personnel on board merchant ships and at the same time do not understand that without using force, and therefore bringing special forces behind them and with targeted actions against the pirates, we will not be able to achieve the results we hope for. but above all, the european union's tears of regret could be crocodile tears at the moment when we failed to bring the italian soldiers home. for one simple reason: who will commit military forces when they cannot be brought to justice under the principles of international law? it's the end of the action against piracy, if the italian military do not return home. and at least we can avoid the extreme confusion created, certainly not by the high representative, but by some unfortunate spokesmen, who continue to talk about private guards when we are talking about military personnel who are regularly supervised in accordance with international law and the principles of our law. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will not join my italian colleagues in calling for the european community to intervene to protect the two italian soldiers, because i believe that this should be a duty of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy towards two european citizens of italian origin. if this house and our institutions do not take the initiative of a cultural leap for which the high representative for foreign affairs must be responsible to his citizens, especially when international rules are being flouted - the most basic of which is that of a ship in international waters, jurisdiction is vested in the flag that that ship flies - we shall not be able to give the european parliament as a whole a meaningful role at international level. and that would be incalculable damage, and to continue to leave it to the individual nations of the european context to carry out foreign policy means not wanting to create that supranational state, europe, which the citizens are clamoring for. i was astonished when lady ashton, at the first stage, when asked by her italian colleagues, replied: 'we have not been asked by the italian government'. and this evening you too, commissioner, introduced the matter by saying that we are acting at the request of italy: we are a great nation, a great continent, and we have and must have at heart our european citizens, whatever their nationality, wherever they may be in the world, acting to protect them in accordance with international law. i hope lady ashton can make that leap of faith sooner or later. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of piracy is now a well-known problem and the sad incident involving the two italian soldiers is yet another illustration of the lack of cooperation between the institutions. if the two gunmen, while carrying out activities in favour of the italian state to combat piracy, have done wrong, they will pay, but they will have to be tried by the italian judiciary as enshrined in the montego bay treaty. i therefore call on the european commission to take concrete action to ensure that international law is respected. at this moment there are two european citizens who are waiting to see whether the institutions which represent them will be able to guarantee the rights which europe so much speaks of. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems like a movie from another time: we thought that piracy was now just a thing about the internet and copyright issues or similar issues. piracy is just what we know from adventure books and movies. of course, in the modern version, going to the rear with machine guns and rocket launchers and not with scimitares and, frankly, colleagues of the left, the class struggle has nothing to do with it. it is irresponsible to say that pirates are for capitalist exploitation, there is no justification when you rob, steal, kill and to say that you risk becoming an accomplice. it is a tragic event and it becomes even more tragic when people who are defending ships in accordance with international conventions are even arrested by the authorities of other states, even with deception and in clear violation of international law, as happened in recent days to the two italian soldiers in india, or rather in international waters that someone then brought to the indian dock. i thank the commissioner for what he said here in the chamber this evening on this matter, also because i hope that the protection of the law is indeed a priority for the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two italian citizens of the european union, massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, are currently in custody in india. the italian minister of defense today told us that these soldiers and the ship they were serving on were lured into the harbor by a deception, telling them that there were pirates in the harbor, then once the ship entered the harbor, they were forced off the ship by force and our two boys only went down to avoid further bloodshed. in the face of this history, we ask today clearly: what is europe doing? where is mrs ashton, why did she not come here today to report to us?" and if your presence and your attention to this matter is equal to your presence in this chamber, well, that is a matter of serious concern to us. mr piebalgs, you who represent mrs ashton here, tell her to come quickly and immediately and tell us what she is doing on this matter, otherwise if and when she returns to this chamber she will find us ready to welcome her with the courtesy and courtesy she has earned. from this european parliament, a strong and heartfelt embrace to our two marathas arrested in india and to their families who are living in italy in hours of anguish.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have decided to wear these t-shirts to keep the spotlight on the matter and to call on the european union to make a concrete commitment to help resolve the difficult issue of the two italian soldiers arrested in india. only by joining forces can we hope for the release and repatriation of our soldiers. europe has been guilty of delay. it is absurd that the foreign policy chief, catherine ashton, is once again absent from this debate. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. − madam president, that was a very emotional debate. the accusation that the eu is not supporting the repatriation of the two italian servicemen is a false accusation. i would mention just a couple of the steps it has taken. the eu has made approaches to the indian ministry of external affairs, to the indian chargé d’affaires in brussels, and to the indian deputy national security advisor, and that is not all. baroness ashton is fully committed to doing everything we can do from the eu side, but there is no magic wand solution. however, we are fully committed and we will take full care of the issue. on atalanta, this has actually been much more successful than was said; the number of ships in the hands of pirates has been reduced from 20 to eight. while there is still concern over around 200 hostages, there are sufficient resources for this year at least, and good coordination. on the somalia strategy, it is true that for 20 years there has not been sufficient international involvement, but the eu alone does not hold the magic key to solving somalia’s problems. first of all, somalia needs legitimate representatives, and today we have the transitional institutions. they are the only institutions we have in that country, and we should support them because of this. second, we support – and i mentioned the figures – the security operations. it is not easy to fight al-shabaab. now, the number of african troops that are risking their lives, and taking quite heavy casualties – many soldiers from burundi and uganda have lost their lives fighting al-shabaab and preserving security – has increased to 17 000, so that might make a difference. however, the fact that a blast was reported at the presidential palace in mogadishu today shows that the fight to ensure security is not an easy one. we have made quite substantial investments in development and humanitarian aid – i have mentioned the figures – and it is true that we are doing more in somaliland and in puntland, where the security situation is better. however, it would not be true to say that we are not doing everything in our power. we are actually using all the financial resources that the member states are prepared to give us. on international shipping, we need the imo. the imo has responded to the call we made to it by organising a conference on how to protect merchant shipping. that conference will be held in may. i could go on and on, but my point is that we need to find a solution to the security situation in somalia and its political development. this is what is needed. the accusations that the eu provoked the crisis are ridiculous. we have not provoked the crisis. we are trying to resolve the crisis, as far as this is in our powers. by the way, last year there was only one eu vessel taken in somali waters. this is a lot about alliances. the eu is doing its full share. we are engaging with our international partners. it is very important to understand that the eu’s efforts alone cannot provide a lasting solution to this issue. we need other members of the international community, and the bigger countries, to become fully involved. only then will we be able to find, step by step, lasting solutions to fully eradicating piracy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
member of the commission. − mr president, the 2050 roadmap communication provides a solid basis for discussing the further development of eu climate policies. it represents an incredibly strong signal for the whole process in this parliament on this issue. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteurs: chris davies from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and mario pirillo from the committee on industry, research and energy. it sends a very strong message about what this is all about, namely the environment and industry going hand in hand and seeing that this is not harming the potential in europe and is actually something that can enhance our growth. we just heard chris davies, a liberal, say that financial mechanisms alone are not enough, and often it also takes regulation: that is also a very clear statement and is exactly what the low carbon roadmap is about. after the second failure of the environment council to adopt council conclusions on the 2050 roadmap, it is even more important that the european parliament gives its support to an ambitious eu climate policy in line with the global requirements, integrating the discussion on the short-term policy needs with the longer-term perspective. although one country blocked the final compromise in the council, 26 member states explicitly asked the commission to move forward. we should not allow the most reluctant among us to dictate the pace of the rest. this is a very clear signal coming out of the european parliament today: that you really want us to move forward and take the measures needed. we welcome the report, as it endorses the central findings of the commission’s 2050 roadmap – in particular the interim milestones for domestic greenhouse gas emissions reductions, as set out in the roadmap. in the context of the difficult economic circumstances we are facing, the european parliament’s report strikes the right balance and creates the right vision. it is of paramount importance that parliament recognises that a gradual, cost-effective transition to a low-carbon economy passes through the milestones for domestic greenhouse gas reductions of 40% by 2030 and 60% by 2040 in order to achieve at least 80% by 2050 as compared to 1990. this is strong guidance for our policy for decades to come. it is the starting point for further work related to the preparation of the 2030 policy framework, which is reasonably foreseeable and the focus of most current investors. business needs clarity in the long term in order to be able to keep costs down. if there is one thing business always asks from us as politicians and regulators, it is long-term predictability. if you are a company, a sector or an investor, you are already looking beyond 2020 and planning investments which have a much more distant horizon. the report confirms that, if the eu delivers on its current policies – including its commitment to achieve a 20% energy efficiency improvement by 2020 – this would add a further 5% greenhouse gas reduction through domestic action. while this does not require any change to our current targets for 2020, it shows a very practical and economical way to achieve higher reductions in line with the cost-effective pathway to 2050. the energy efficiency directive will play a vital role here in providing the legal framework for reaching the 20% efficiency target. as you know, we are by no means on track to meet that. the report also recognises that the ets remains the principal instrument of the eu climate policy, though not the only one. the commission is monitoring the situation closely. for the longer term, we take note of the various proposals put forward by the european parliament for future changes to the ets. we will assess how to take these into account in our further work. with regard to the risk of carbon leakage, i understand that this is present throughout the report, but the eu has included specific measures in the climate and energy package, as the report also states. these are adequate. border measures are not necessary and are counter-productive, at least at the moment. as i have said before, they are a tool in the toolbox, but they should stay there for as long as we can move forward through other means. as outlined in the roadmap, we will continue to observe the international situation in order to ensure that these measures remain adequate. in the commission we fully share the strong focus set on energy efficiency and renewables. this is key to combining emission reductions, improved energy security and sustainable growth and jobs. in this respect, the commission urges the council and parliament to reach an agreement on the energy efficiency directive rapidly. in addition, the commission will soon come forward with a communication considering the eu’s strategy on renewable energy post 2020. we strongly support parliament’s call for enhanced action to reduce emissions in the power, industry, transport and agriculture sectors. let me highlight just one example from the transport sector. the report affirms that the commission should be proposing ways of ensuring that average co2 emissions from new cars meet the target of not more than 95g/km by 2020. as requested in the existing legislation, the commission will this year produce a proposal to establish the modalities for reaching this target. furthermore, the commission intends to submit a proposal addressing emissions of hfcs and other fluorinated greenhouse gases in the second half of this year, which is also mentioned in the report. finally, we also welcome the balanced considerations on competitiveness, research, innovation, growth and jobs in the context of moving to a low-carbon economy, confirming the main conclusions of the commission assessments. last but not least, we thank you very much for supporting the commission’s proposal for the next multiannual financial framework and the intention to a very substantial degree to mainstream climate action in it. the commission has proposed to increase the proportion of climate-related expenditure to at least 20% of the whole budget, either directly on climate action or through other policies where climate action is also addressed and where the different initiatives will help us move in a greener direction and the direction of a low carbon economy. we count on your support on this matter in the upcoming budgetary discussions. in conclusion, i would encourage the european parliament to adopt the resolution as a further step for developing the appropriate policy framework for the transition to a competitive, energy-secure and resource-efficient low carbon economy. what you are about to adopt today will send a very strong and timely signal that europe is ready to move on. thank you very much for that.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner hedegaard, the target of reducing co2 emissions by 80-95% by 2050 allows us to lay the foundations for a post-carbon european economy. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, such as the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax. research will play a central role in making full use of renewable energy, and with clear and binding targets we can prepare the industrial sector for a transition while preserving its global competitiveness. europe can be proud of having embarked on this path to protect the environment and combat climate change at all levels: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as rapporteur for itre, i would like to thank my colleagues joe leinen and chris davies for their excellent cooperation. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by mr davies is limited to unilateral, restrictive rules which will have an impact on future climate legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in recent years, the european parliament has been continually called upon to vote on measures which have proved, or will prove, inapplicable or to be repealed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the pollution of the sea by small-scale fishing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. the idea of charging european companies astronomical prices to take over the co2 shares of the ets market so that they can continue to produce is to undermine our economy. our companies are already struggling to resist unfair competition from non-community countries which not only do not have to comply with specific emission limits, but have labour costs and therefore production costs which are vastly lower than ours. what some green fundamentalists do not want to understand is that pollution is global and that an industry that closes in europe and moves its operations to a country that does not participate in the fight against climate change will pollute more and leave us with so many unemployed. the logic is that certain drastic choices, if they are made, must be shared by all the industrialized and emerging countries and that if some of them do not adhere to their goods entering europe, duties will be applied.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i am quite concerned, i hear words like 'success, failure, leadership', but we should agree on the meaning of these words, because i think that we are going to vote on a very complex text today, that many of us will vote on things with stomach pains, choosing the lesser evil, but not because we are convinced of what we are going to vote on. and there is no unanimity, because just look at the vote in the committee on the environment, this text was passed by only 32 votes in favour, 24 against and 5 abstentions. so let us not tell ourselves the fairy tale that we are all in agreement and let us happily go through the cracks that europe is opening up on its own! look what's happening with the ets system. the airline industry, in particular, is writing desperate letters to european airlines, these things need to be regulated globally, where is europe going alone, with 12% of emissions? he's going into the ravine! let's go singing, happy and happy! what is leadership? it's not giving up, as jo leinen used to say, my good fellow! but it's not about not giving up, leadership is about persuading; we didn't convince anyone. let's look in the mirror, tell ourselves the truth, then read the eurobarometer, the citizens are skeptical about this crisis! but we do an examination of conscience, we begin to see things in their reality, not in our dreams. leadership is difficult, it is conquered, but it must be persuaded, otherwise we will be alone, alone, the leader is one step ahead, but not kilometers ahead, because if it is kilometers it means that he is alone! i beg you, a bath of realism and reality! thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this measure should help to increase the level of investment and thus secure the industrial future of the european union. the industry must be given the necessary incentives to promote investments that can foster economic growth and reduce co2 emissions at the same time. a low-carbon economy should therefore in no way diminish the european union's competitiveness, but on the contrary should strengthen it. finally, it is important to support the investments needed to promote the development of renewable energy sources to ensure savings and clean energy. europe must speed up its efforts if it is not to be left behind. we need action, not words, the ambition of a true green economy capable of stimulating sustainable growth and development. thank you, sir.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly useful to have a joint motion for a resolution on a particularly important issue, namely discrimination, the dislike of those who must be integrated and welcomed, where there is obviously an objective opportunity for work or a process of family reunification. european citizenship is a subject of extraordinary value, we must certainly be aware of it, we must re-launch the theme of welcome and integration, we must take into account that there are directives 38 of 2004 which is essential in this respect and while we are working to celebrate 2013, the european year of citizens, here we must remove every obstacle that today concretely causes these difficulties. at the same time, the internet is an essential tool for knowledge, but it must be linked to a number of essential requirements which those using it must meet. thank you, sir.
in writing. − in 2011, the commission presented a strategy paper setting out an ambitious european pathway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions after 2020: reducing emissions by 40% in 2030, 60% in 2040 and reaching a reduction of 80-95% in 2050. this document, in defining a european environmental strategy, has a major impact on the industrial policy of the member states. the report makes even more stringent demands than those outlined by the commission with more ambitious climate targets by 2020 and binding european targets beyond 2030, irrespective of the achievement of a global climate agreement. i am against a change in the emission reduction commitments already made for 2020, mainly because the emission reduction commitments made under the 'climate and energy package' approved in 2008 are the result of a long and difficult political negotiation which has allowed a compromise to be reached between member states to distribute efforts fairly and safeguard the competitiveness of the respective sectors involved. in addition, the european union must not, in pursuing its climate objectives, change the regulatory framework already adopted, risking further penalising european businesses vis-à-vis global partners.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr davies on the roadmap to a low-carbon economy by 2050 because i believe that environmental issues should not be underestimated and should be one of the eu's top priorities. reducing dependence on fossil fuels is essential to safeguarding the climate and reducing pollution, both to protect the global environment and to protect human health. the benefits of these choices will also be felt in the economic and commercial sector, reducing the heavy import of oil from third countries. we must be careful, however, that we are not the only ones to impose such strict rules and limitations: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. only uniform rules can be effective in combating pollution and global warming. otherwise, we will not only fail, but we will risk being exposed to ruthless competition from economies whose success is based on the very absence of restrictive environmental and social regulations such as ours.
in writing. − the need for the international economy to move increasingly towards a production system based on reducing carbon emissions is a requirement imposed on us by the increasingly looming risk of irreversible climate change, as well as by the need to gradually free our production system from the use of exhaustible sources. however, it is simply incomprehensible - and in many ways out of time and history - that the forces on the right have insisted on re-proposing the nuclear issue. it is out of date and out of date, as are all the recommendations on the safety of power stations which have been repeatedly put before us and which have been consistently refuted by the facts. this is even more unthinkable in a country like italy, where after almost 30 years of the closure of the power stations, we still have waste that has not been disposed of and where, a short time ago, a new popular consultation reaffirmed the absolute opposition to the reintroduction of nuclear power. we therefore ask that the right objective, the reduction of emissions and the transition to a renewable energy economy, should not become the pretext for letting a tool that has proved to be unsafe and dangerous, and which the people of europe have therefore chosen to abandon, back through the window.
in writing. - the emissions game no longer has the same rules for everyone. the eu's climate and energy package was adopted with the assurance that other major emitters would make similar commitments, but this has not happened and some major economies have already said that it will not happen in the near future. furthermore, given that the union's gdp growth has been almost stagnant since the package came into force, unlike in other countries not applying such measures, i believe that the current climate strategy is a factor in the slowdown of economic recovery and that, consequently, the adoption of new and more restrictive very long-term limits, such as those proposed in this report, would risk losing europe the race to be competitive on the global market. that is why i voted against.
in writing. − the environmental challenges facing the planet are urgent and require immediate action. as the european union we can do a lot to reduce carbon emissions with the international target of an 80% reduction in emissions compared to 1990. in this difficult challenge, all sectors of manufacturing and industrial processing contribute to the 2050 target and to the intermediate targets, as called for in the report, of 2030 and 2040. we are all called upon to do our part, at european level, to make our contribution to reducing carbon emissions in the atmosphere a concrete and achievable goal.
in writing. − europe cannot tackle the climate and environmental problems of the entire planet on its own: i think it is absurd that the european union should want to proceed unilaterally, by proposing stricter limits on carbon emissions. i am aware that we must move in this direction, but this must not be at the expense of the competitiveness of the whole economic system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the newly emerging countries, whose growth rates are staggering in comparison with the stagnating european economy, have not been confronted with these problems, nor have the united states of america, which has never even agreed to respect commitments which all the other developed countries have long since made. the european union can be an example in meeting the challenge of climate change, but not by acting in this self-destructive way: i think that the commission should use its influence, if it counts for anything, to persuade all the major economies to come together in a common and sensible action in this direction, in defence of our planet and our own future.
in writing. − with this vote, the european union will be able to continue to invest in processes that use energy and resources much more efficiently. europe must continue along the path of the competitive economy, even if the decision-making process is too often slow. the european union will only be able to build and exercise lasting leadership by reducing co2 emissions and substantially increasing the level of investment to create a leading industrial sector.
in writing. − while an initiative document, the report responds to a strategy paper from the european commission in march 2011, in which the commission set out an ambitious european pathway to reduce greenhouse gas emissions after 2020: reducing emissions by 40% in 2030, 60% in 2040 and reaching a reduction of 80-95% in 2050. the draft report by john davies intends to make even more stringent demands than those outlined by the european commission, in particular a 25% climate target by 2020 and binding european targets for 2030 and beyond, irrespective of the achievement of a global climate agreement. the report also argues that the european commission needs to intervene in the current regulatory framework for the emissions trading system by 2020, either by withdrawing emission allowances from the market, or by increasing the annual emission reduction factor at european level. both measures, if introduced, would in fact change the decisions taken by member states on the european commitment to combat climate change by 2020. with this declaration of vote i wish to express my opposition to more demanding changes to the commitments already made for the reduction of emissions by 2020
in writing. the case of the dutch party for freedom (ppv) is not only a serious violation of the rights of european citizens enshrined in our constitutional charter, but also requires us to reflect on political actions that go in the opposite direction to european principles. the strong condemnation of the ppv initiative, which on a specially designed website invited citizens to protest against immigrants from central and eastern europe, is the signal that the european parliament wanted to send against those who do not respect the values of democracy, solidarity and transparency on which our union is based. the educational and cultural work aimed at transmitting european values must therefore be continued in order to prevent similar acts from being repeated.
in writing. − in early february, the party for freedom in the netherlands launched an online complaint site called "meldpunt midden en oost europeanen", inviting people to submit complaints about the "massive labour migration" of "citizens from central and eastern europe". all this is against the free movement of citizens in the european union. the vote strongly condemns the website run by the pvv, as it is contrary to the fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and risks destroying the very foundation of the union, which is pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and freedom of movement. it is also necessary that the dutch government should intervene and verify whether this initiative has turned into incitement to hatred.
in writing. − i support the aim of this resolution because it reiterates once again our concerns for the state duma elections of last december and for the presidential elections held on 4 march. the osce preliminary conclusion of 5 march states that the electoral process had been distorted through shortcomings in the registration process for candidates and unequal and biased media coverage. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the osce and has therefore committed itself to the principles of democracy. therefore we ask for comprehensive analyses of all irregularities with a view to strengthening democratic rules for future elections. i also believe that president vladimir putin should engage with protestors in a sincere dialogue on the future of the country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling on russia, which is an important partner for the european union, to engage in a concrete dialogue with the protesters in defence of the principles of democracy and transparency. president medvedev should follow through on his promises by ensuring the adoption of the necessary reforms of the political system, and a serious commitment to tackling the many problems related to freedom of the media and freedom of assembly and expression. the european parliament supports this improvement and, where necessary, offers its cooperation, especially in the strengthening, respect and protection of fundamental human rights.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the past months have been marked by a deterioration of the human rights situation in kazakhstan. the violent crackdown by the police forces on demonstrators in zhanaozen in december must be condemned and an independent investigation of the events is necessary. in addition to that, in the osce/odihr-led international delegation, several observers found that the 15 january 2012 parliamentary elections did not meet fundamental principles of democratic elections. for these reasons, with this text we ask the kazakh government to rapidly improve respect for freedom of expression and to respect international election standards.
in writing. − the european union and kazakhstan could benefit greatly from closer cooperation. economic cooperation must go hand in hand with political cooperation and be based on the political will to implement and defend common values, given the key role played by kazakhstan in the socioeconomic development of central asia and in the stability and security of the region. however, the events of 16 december 2011 in the kazakh district of zhanaozen, in which 17 people were killed and 110 injured, are of concern. the vote strongly condemns the violent police repression of the demonstrators in zhanaozen and calls for an independent and credible investigation into the incident, with the participation of an international team.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because the recent violence in nigeria, carried out by the boko haram criminal cartel must be strongly condemned by the international community. boko haram is blamed for the deaths of more than 900 people in roughly 160 separate attacks since july 2009. a contribution to put a definitive end to this awful situation is a wider examination of the root causes of the conflict. it is essential to avoid simplistic explanations based only on the label ‘terrorism’ or ‘religion’. although nigeria is the world’s eighth largest oil producer, the majority of its 148 million inhabitants live below the poverty line. a peaceful resolution of conflicts implies fair access to resources and a redistribution of revenues from the oil market. in addition to that, we must reaffirm the importance of an independent, impartial and accessible judiciary system to stop the impunity and to enhance respect for the rule of law and the fundamental rights of the population. for all these reasons, with this text we called upon the federal government of nigeria to fight corruption, poverty and inequality and to push for reforms aimed at creating a democratic, stable, free state which takes into account human rights.
in writing. the climate of renewed violence in nigeria for more than two months now required a firm condemnation by the european union. the situation in the african state is very worrying as regards the protection of both human and religious rights. the murder of 185 christians on 20 january is cruel testimony to a violent climate that shows no sign of stopping its hatred and which bases its foundations on religious discrimination. among other incidents, i think it is right to mention the kidnapping and subsequent execution of the italian engineer franco lamolinara, whose family members i extend my heartfelt condolences to. it is our duty to take all the necessary cooperation measures to ensure that the situation in nigeria returns to normal as soon as possible, by encouraging interreligious dialogue and, above all, freedom of thought.
in writing. − the situation in nigeria has deteriorated dramatically in recent months: the killing of two european civilian hostages, including italian franco lamolinara, following a kidnapping by the islamist terrorist group boko haram, was reported last week. this is unfortunately only the latest in a long series of attacks by this sect, including, and this is also of profound significance, the attacks on several christian churches on christmas day last year, which led to the death of dozens of people. i had already expressed my concern about the situation in nigeria earlier this year by addressing a question to high representative ashton, who assured me that the european union would act appropriately. so far i do not think that has happened, but we hope that this joint resolution which i have supported will help to try to bring the necessary stability to the interior of nigeria.
in writing. − in nigeria, the latest wave of gun and bomb attacks by the islamist terrorist sect boko haram in kano on 20 january killed at least 185 people. boko haram warned kano residents through leaflets distributed at night in the city that attacks on security services would continue and urged them to resist as the group struggles to establish an "islamic system". this vote underlines the importance of regional cooperation in dealing with the threat posed by a possible link between boko haram and aqim. the countries of the region should strengthen their cooperation, including through the relevant regional organisations, in order to prevent synergies between the two groups.
in writing. − water is the key to life, a determining factor for economic growth and prosperity, through activities such as agriculture, commercial fisheries, energy production, manufacturing, transport and tourism. water is also the crucial factor in the urbanization of territories and the source of many geopolitical conflicts. today we are witnessing a real imbalance in ecosystems, which poses a risk not only to the climate regulation that makes the planet work, but a serious danger to human health and the quality of life. i hope that in the coming days, during the sixth world water forum in marseille, concrete proposals will be discussed with a 'multi-level governance' approach in support of poverty and hunger halving and environmental sustainability. the protection of water resources, their quality and availability is a responsibility that each of us must assume.
in writing. − despite the efforts made by the international community in recent decades, the figures which describe the world situation in terms of water use and quality still present a scenario which is unacceptable, both from a health and ethical point of view. in fact, according to the latest figures, over 800 million people drink from unsafe sources, and as many as 2.5 million children die each year because of a lack of water supply and quality. these are numbers that require a strong stance. that is why i think it is very important that the european union presents itself at the next world water forum, to be held in marseille from 12 to 17 march, with a strong common vision, where the issues that the eu has long placed at the top of its agenda are clearly outlined, namely the protection of water resources and greater efficiency (and consequently a reduction in waste) in their use.
in writing. − efficient management of the world's water resources has a direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture and food security, and is a key prerequisite for poverty reduction. the world water forum provides a platform where the water community and policy and decision makers from all regions of the world come together to seek solutions to achieve water security. i hope that during the forum concrete commitments will be made to follow up the key priorities for action identified in this area, ensuring the well-being of all and contributing to global economic development.
in writing. − nearly half the population living in developing countries lack sanitation facilities, over 800 million people still use unsafe sources for drinking water and have inadequate access to safe water and sanitation. a critical and sometimes dramatic situation for millions of people. this vote will seek to achieve the un millennium development goals in the field of water and sanitation as soon as possible, taking into account also the relevant outcomes of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development. the debate in the world water forum should focus on strategies and solutions for agricultural and economic development that ensure a high level of accessibility to water resources and water quality.
author of the book. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president of the commission, last december yet another group of eritrean refugees was kidnapped by rashaida traffickers and sold to a ramailat tribal gang, including a group of 27 eritrean nationals, including four girls and a woman with a child of a few years old, who were taken to rafah. the group suffered terrible violence, some of them were killed and their bodies were dumped in the desert. one of these refugees, 25-year-old solomon, managed to escape from prison a few weeks later and took refuge in a mosque run by a salafist group that did not want to hand him over to the torturers for the time being. there's a $50,000 bounty on that man. the european union must state clearly whether the lives of eritrean refugees are worth less than the lives of others. coordination is needed through the african union, as a partner of the european union, explicitly committed to the universal values of democracy and human rights. in view of what is happening in sinai, one must ask what meaning the arab spring revolutions had. if no one does anything to free solomon, what's the point of our proclamations about the model of democracy?
mr president, just to ask you whether it will be possible to have a roll-call vote tomorrow on the report on mr de magistris's immunity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that at a time of crisis in europe - because the debate in this parliament by all the groups on the agreement of 1 march has shown that the community is in crisis - it is very important that a country like serbia should become a candidate country for accession to europe. i think this is a crucial moment, and i agree with the representatives of the commission and the council and the rapporteur that serbia has made a great deal of progress but that it must continue to solve its problems and find a homogeneity with europe. i believe that this is a moment of stability and security for europe and that the new relationship that serbia is beginning to establish with kosovo gives great hope not only to italy, because it has a closer, more contiguous border, but also to all of europe, which i believe has an interest in ensuring peace as a whole. i think we need to monitor behaviour, but i think we should all be happy with this approach.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. i think that the process of consolidating democracy in kosovo is a very important factor. our aim now is to encourage the authorities in pristina and all the political forces in parliament to continue democratic reforms, reforms which can modernise the country and open a new phase in the political, civil and economic life of kosovo. there are still many problems to be tackled - the council has already mentioned them - and they must be tackled with strength and determination and, above all, they must be tackled with the necessary consistency by the kosovo authorities. it's true, the situation is evolving. we can only welcome the historic agreement reached between belgrade and pristina on inclusive regional cooperation and kosovo's representation in regional forums. all this can greatly contribute to the stability of the entire western balkan region and is also of great importance for the european union. it is in this context - as commissioner füle has said - that it is positive that the commission has launched a feasibility study for a stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and kosovo. we must now insist on this path, because this path can not only pacify and make the relationship between serbia and kosovo more fruitful and bring these countries even closer to the european union, but also because it can help to overcome the differences that exist towards kosovo even from those countries which have not yet recognized the existence of kosovo itself. there is therefore a job to be done by europe, but above all a job that the kosovar authorities must do to the full to achieve these objectives.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, kosovo is a country with major structural problems, as the report itself shows. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state, and the introduction of a new system of taxation on the income of the state. in addition, the economy is very weak and environmental protection is neglected. in addition, there is widespread crime involving the trafficking of arms, people and drugs, as confirmed by international investigations and reported by authoritative media. the council of europe in 2010 denounced the involvement of prime minister taci in organ trafficking and other criminal activities. all this shows that we are far from any possible integration, even if we have to accompany kosovo in its social and democratic evolution. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. i know that the council of europe prosecution has named president taci 27 times in its report and there was also a bbc report on this. i am not the judicial authority and it is not for me to verify from a judicial point of view any liability. however, the council of europe's accusation is a very serious accusation, made by an authoritative council, which i think deserves some consideration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank mr lunacek and congratulate him on his work. we are facing great challenges and great opportunities for kosovo and i think that the agenda proposed and outlined today by the council is in that direction and should be supported by us. there is certainly great optimism about the considerable efforts and great progress made by kosovo in recent years. it is not enough to look back a few years ago, ten or fifteen years ago, to see how much progress has been made. today we must encourage the government in pristina, but we must also encourage all democratic political forces to continue on the path of reform, to promote the european agenda and reforms of visas, trade and the judicial system. this is the path that awaits us to achieve two objectives: the european union has a duty to help kosovo to improve its democratic standard, to improve the lives of the people of kosovo and to bring kosovo closer to europe, and then to bring kosovo into europe. a young european democracy must find the strong and convinced support of europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for this opportunity to exchange views with you today on the european union’s commitment to kosovo. i am also grateful for your encouragement and support for the commission’s initiatives to bring kosovo closer to europe and for our work on the feasibility study for kosovo in particular. over the next couple of months we will prepare an in-depth analysis of kosovo’s preparedness to negotiate and conclude a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. such an agreement would confirm kosovo’s joining the rest of the western balkans in their shared endeavour to one day share and be part of our zone of stability, security and prosperity. my visit to kosovo this week marked the start of a new phase, one of hard work and serious reform. turning from words to a process based on substance and content is the right way to address the many challenges the people of kosovo face. the commission will be ready to support kosovo in this. kosovo’s recent agreement on regional cooperation with serbia, despite its teething problems, should help the european union to engage more deeply. i ask for your continued support in passing this message on and strengthening engagement with kosovo’s parliament. let us work together towards this common objective of bringing kosovo and the region closer to europe and helping to bring lasting security and prosperity to the western balkans.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank you for the discussion in this house today on kosovo's prospects for the european union. i would like to thank in particular ulrike lunacek for her strong commitment to kosovo and kosovo's eu integration process. the eu has a clear commitment to the european perspective for kosovo and will continue to support kosovo through its strong presence, including through eulex, but the primary responsibility for progress lies, of course, with kosovo's leaders. kosovo faces major challenges and much has been achieved in a few years. we must also recognize that there are some very special circumstances for such a young country. kosovo has made good progress in establishing a major public infrastructure which will facilitate the implementation of the necessary reforms; but the road to the eu will be a long and difficult one based on hard work and own merits. however, the accession of croatia to the eu and, more recently, the granting of candidate status to serbia, show that eu accession is a possibility for those countries that do their homework. it will also be a source of motivation for the other countries of the western balkans, including kosovo. in today's discussions we have touched upon a number of areas where reform is needed. let me just mention some very important issues: i share the concern about the limited progress that kosovo has made in general with regard to the political criteria, and not least the limited progress in the fight against corruption. corruption is a very serious problem in kosovo and the follow-up to corruption cases could be better, as only a limited number of high-level cases have resulted in prosecution. in this respect, additional efforts should be made in the future by the kosovo authorities. it is also essential that further steps be taken to combat organised crime. more legislation in this area needs to be adopted and effectively implemented. it is also important that these measures be implemented in cooperation with neighbouring countries, since organised crime does not respect national borders. overall, there is a clear need for reform and development of the judicial system in kosovo, an area that the eu actively supports. as regards the economy, there is a very strong need to implement structural reforms that can facilitate kosovo's development towards a well-functioning market economy. we still have a long way to go. in other words, the challenges are great, but the eu has a special obligation to support europe's youngest state so that it can take the necessary steps towards further eu approximation through further reforms. the kosovo leadership is aware of this and is willing to make an extra effort to live up to expectations, and the government in pristina has shown through the eu-facilitated dialogue with belgrade that it is ready to work pragmatically to achieve solutions even in difficult issues. it is important that this course continues and in this context i hope that the government in pristina will act pragmatically and renew its efforts to implement an inclusive and long-term agenda for the future of northern kosovo. the danish presidency looks forward to continued close cooperation with parliament and the commission in this regard.
i have received a motion for a resolution with a request for the minutes to be taken at the end of the debate (rule 110 (2)). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 29 march 2012.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the report on the enlargement of turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in this chamber on a regular basis to discuss turkey's accession to europe. i must say, however, that each year there is little progress, if any, in the way of regression compared with the previous year. i wonder, after what the turkish foreign minister said about the cypriot presidency, whether this is not enough for the european commission, the european parliament and the european council to decide that perhaps it is time to say enough about trying to bring turkey into europe. it is clear that there are completely different interests and it is clear that perhaps a different path must be taken with this country which is certainly strategic for europe and with which we can certainly have good trade relations. however, accession to the european union would certainly also create trade-offs in our foundations and our fundamental values. so i am calling on the commission to review this accession policy, because we are giving money for this pre-accession policy, but we are certainly not giving it for the invasion of cyprus, let alone for the imprisonment of journalists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i read the motion for a resolution i wondered which europe was being referred to and which turkey was being referred to. if you think of europe as a mere geographical entity, you should realize that turkey is not europe, since 97% of turkey's territory is in asia. secular turkey, founded in 1924 by atatürk, no longer exists. in its place has come an islamic regime, whose prime minister erdogan was convicted and arrested in 1998 for inciting religious hatred for publicly declaring: "the mosques are our barracks, the domes are our helmets, the minarets are our bayonets and the faithful are our soldiers". erdogan has facilitated the rise to power of fundamentalist and extremist islamists in the middle east. according to erdogan, israel is a terrorist state and hamas is an organization to be supported, but above all ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i support this resolution because i am in favour of full eu membership for turkey and because i am convinced that its accession process should be completed as soon as possible. i have heard many objections to this process and i believe many of them are well grounded, but i believe also that these objections are overshadowed by three facts. first, the contribution of turkey to the stability of the world economy. its economic growth, along with the performance of the brics, averted the transformation of the financial crisis in europe and the usa after 2008 into a genuine catastrophe. the second fact is the strengthening of global peace generated by turkey’s democratisation process and its related problem-free foreign policy. there has been a huge change of course of turkish foreign policy in the right direction, which is positively affecting all east-west relationships. the third is the quality of turkish social policies. in just six years, from 2003 to 2009, the country reduced its poverty rate by an astonishing 36%, and as socialists and democrats we particularly appreciate this achievement.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that, even if it is late, the programme, once the agreement has been defined, is an instrument of great solidarity and its success should therefore be welcomed. we believe that joint resettlement is a formidable chance of redemption for so many desperate people in need of protection, who come from more difficult circumstances and who deserve not only formal but concrete and substantive help. there must be responsible competition from the member states, given that this is all on a voluntary basis. eurostat has recently released the following data: over three hundred thousand instances. i am pleased to note that italy is the first country to accept requests for humanitarian protection, an italy which again needs the constructive contribution of the european union because, as you know, landings at lampedusa have resumed in a massive and significant way. the italian government must do a great deal, but there must also be this concrete contribution from the european union. we are obviously against irregular migration flows, which must be decisively countered because they are often at the hands of organised crime, and we look to 2013 in the meantime, and then to 2014-2020, so that resettlement programmes constitute a concrete and real goal. we acknowledge that the rapporteur and commissioner malmström have worked hard on this track.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report finally points out the greatest waste of the european parliament, namely the existence of several places of work. i hope that by pressing this button we will soon find a solution, because we do not want to continue to be complicit, despite ourselves, in this absurd situation. i am glad that, after my amendment, more honourable members have joined together and said no to the double seat. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter. i would add, however, that there is still much to be done. it is not clear, for example, how, at this time of crisis and sacrifice for all, millions of euros can be spent on the construction of the house of european history, a european history which is also now in great danger. we are in a european union dominated by a single nation and backed by the bureaucracy of brussels, in which sovereign peoples are now relegated to the role of subjects, forced to suffer decisions taken elsewhere and with very different interests. i would therefore think twice before investing public money in this building, which could, among other things, risk turning from a house of european history into a mausoleum for the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their success in combining the wishes of parliament's committee on budgets, which is aiming for negative real growth in parliament's 2013 budget, with the administration's wish to make real savings without jeopardising the proper functioning of the institution. the reduction of eur 9.3 million compared to the preliminary estimates allows us to contain the increase in the 2013 budget to below 2%, in line with the inflation forecast for next year and in line with the european commission's containment indications. the european budget is not in deficit and parliament's administrative expenditure amounts to 1% of the union's budget. however, a rigorous approach and sound financial management are required, respecting the efforts of all european citizens in a context of difficult consolidation of national budgets. i am sure that further efforts, such as reducing energy costs, launching pilot projects such as the e-committee for paper saving and better management of translation services, will enable us to achieve an increase of 1.9% at the end of the budgetary procedure, including the costs of croatia's accession. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. we are talking only about the administrative costs of this institution. i do not understand this question, which is on a completely different budget. in school , they 'd say , "i'm sorry, but that's off the subject".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to return briefly to what i believe is the most controversial point in the debate we have just had, namely the savings which would be made by simplifying the way parliament is seated. we must not forget that there are actually three places: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the efforts we are making effectively, such as those contained in the report, and also with care around the subject, namely that of saving our expenses, risk remaining little in the public eye if we do not really tackle the subject of simplifying premises. but we cannot do it as we did tonight, announcing a demand or indicating an objective and never arriving at concrete proposals through parliament's committees. solving this problem is not easy. it means intervening in the treaty and then having credible alternatives. so that is the effort we must make.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mr bodu and the whole team who worked with him for the work that has been done in preparing this resolution in the context of corporate governance for european companies. this is an important point for us and for me, in a way, the first point of pride in a collective process of reflection which we ourselves, on behalf of the commission, wanted to give a strong impetus with the green paper last april. this reflection, this consultation, has found its audience. it's a real need. we note a large participation from all economic, social and scientific sectors from all over europe, almost 400 replies ladies and gentlemen , which is very important. it is a participation that is up to the challenge of european confidence in their business. i think that when we talk about sustainable economic performance - and this is what citizens expect - employment, growth, there are a few conditions: the great single market - which is our collective space for economic and social life in common - innovation, investment, but i also think about good governance and social cohesion in companies. these are the conditions for any sustainable economic performance. i think that we must not only restore this trust in the financial sector, but also in the citizens. that is why i believe that the european parliament has a central role to play in this area of good governance. when we look at the results of this consultation, there is naturally a lot of shared opinion, particularly on the need for a new european framework for corporate governance. on the other hand, there is clear, very clear support for european measures in particular areas: transparency of remuneration, identification of shareholders or the supervision of voting agencies. your resolution, mr bodu, reflects this trend: specific, timely and effective action in a number of specific areas. it is too early for me to comment on all the points you raise, but as i always do, i will pay close attention to what parliament says, what it says in this resolution, and that will be very useful to us in guiding our future proposals. maybe two points, quickly. the first is diversity in the boards of directors. this is a point which i consider very important because i believe that this diversity in the boards of directors and in the supervisory boards is also one of the reasons for a better efficiency of corporate governance. i believe that a governance framework, to be credible, must include measures to strengthen this diversity and i intend to include this in the initiatives we are preparing. i believe, in particular, that the governing bodies should be open to more women. my services are currently working on a measure that would require companies to be more transparent about their diversity policy on boards. we have already done so in some of the texts under discussion: a text that president karas is familiar with - crd 4, for which he is the rapporteur - and mifid, for measures to promote diversity for women, particularly in the boards of financial institutions. we have also had a discussion with mrs reding on this point. she's hired a consult herself. we are working - i repeat - on a proposal to increase the transparency of companies, to increase diversity on boards and we are not ruling out proposing quantitative measures (quotas or flexiquotas) to improve the gender balance on boards of listed companies in particular. i am personally in favour of such measures. secondly, the law of companies. let's, as you suggest, have a broad view. corporate governance cannot be separated from company law. i think the two are closely linked. this is why i wanted to bring together the areas of work on 'corporate governance' on the one hand and 'european company law' on the other, in order to create a common and coherent framework. with this in mind, we launched a consultation on the future of european company law six weeks ago. the results will be known very soon (end of may/beginning of june). this, combined with our work on governance, which i have just mentioned, will allow us to prepare for future initiatives in a more coherent and effective way. but i can already announce that in october 2012 i will present a work programme in both areas with a list of concrete initiatives in the service of a big project: the development, in the long term, of responsible enterprises.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the business system is organised and that we are urging it to emerge from the terrible crisis we are going through by improving corporate governance and the governance model and thus its objective competitiveness. but how do you improve corporate governance? i believe that the lines set out in mr bodu's report are useful for deepening and developing this line of reasoning. there is a need for greater transparency in current governance and for companies to have the will and the capacity to adopt practices of social responsibility, but no longer according to the criterion of voluntary membership used until now, but by introducing constraints that are also accompanied by incentives and incentives. secondly, the work and rights of people who are employed in the undertakings must always be respected, whatever their level of responsibility. for this reason, there are three aspects that are more valuable than others. first of all, we must encourage the presence of women through quotas. i say it explicitly, moral suasion in this case leads nowhere. the participation of shareholders, regardless of their origin, whether they are employees or external parties, must be encouraged. finally, if we really want to have workable sustainability targets, a significant part of wages must also have this connection and thus serve as an incentive to achieve the final goal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the image of rossella urru, the sardinian girl who was abducted in algeria on 23 october, together with two spanish colleagues, while on a cooperation mission to help the most disadvantaged inhabitants of the maghreb. rosella is a girl who has dedicated her life to a noble occupation, namely helping people in need. the girl's family, italy and all of us are anxiously awaiting her release and the release of all the european citizens who have been held hostage and kidnapped. rossella is a young european citizen who is a witness to our values and that is why she must go home. that is why i am asking the foreign service and our foreign service representative lady ashton to redouble their diplomatic efforts and ensure that rossella can regain her freedom and return home.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 18 million people in europe depend on this programme and 43 million are european citizens at risk of poverty. i would like to thank mr siekierski and the other colleagues who have worked on this report in the two committees responsible, but let us say at once that we reject the commission's proposal on the transitional nature of aid. we shall vote in favour of the programme as it has been defined, but we reject here in the house the idea that the agreement reached at the agriculture council on 14 and 15 december was based solely on a commitment to abandon the programme after this two-year period. a vote in favour today becomes a commitment tomorrow to reactivate this programme. the multiannual financial framework includes a reserve of eur 2,5 billion for the programmes 2014-2019 under the social affairs heading. the commission can safely follow up on what has been indicated in the framework of the multiannual financial perspective and reaffirm its intention to continue the measure. there is too much of this europe that depends on this programme. there is a great need for help at the moment and europe cannot deal with the crisis by cutting and taxing, and thus creating deprivation in the budgets of the states and withdrawing aid from the indigent. it is a short-sighted and blind policy which we cannot support. that is why we are approving this programme today, but we will fight tomorrow to ensure that this programme continues beyond 2014.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would first like to express my deep satisfaction at the very important result we have achieved by extending the programme for the distribution of food to the poor until 2013. it was a long and difficult journey, involving the involvement and commitment of the whole of parliament. now, the committee on social affairs and the committee on agriculture together wanted the commission to make a clear commitment to the european parliament to continue the programme after 2013. the declaration of 6 december, in which the commission took note of the opposition of some member states to a new programme, cannot affect the right of the commission to legislative initiative as provided for in the treaty. the commission must take account of the strong will of the european parliament and of the overwhelming majority of the member states of the union who want this programme to continue. we therefore welcome the statements made by the commission today. we are talking - and we are still talking - about a tool which enables the union to distribute 440,000 tonnes of food free of charge to over 18 million poor and needy families every year, a number which unfortunately also includes many children. that is why we cannot consider our political initiative to be over. mr president, commissioner, even in the face of new global challenges such as food security, which increase the disadvantage of the weaker social groups, the european parliament will do its part to overcome the divisions that have emerged and to move forward with this programme in 2014.
president of the european investment bank. − mr president, it is a pleasure and an honour for me to be here for the first time in my new capacity and to respond to the report just given by mrs ivanova. it is a real pleasure because i believe that the cooperation between our bank and the european parliament should be clear, should be open and should be transparent. i consider the european parliament an ally of the bank in the enormous challenges which we will have to meet in the future. allow me first of all to thank iliana ivanova for her very thorough and diligent report and for her excellent cooperation with the eib’s services. we welcome the fact that even though the report has the year 2010 in the title, it not only looks at the past but also examines matters from a broader perspective and addresses some very recent developments, as well as some key orientations for the future. we share the analyses for the current situation and the challenge the european investment bank is facing nowadays. much emphasis has been put on fiscal consolidation – undertstandably so given the state of finances in many member states. across the continent, we have realised that solid public finances are key to regaining market confidence. however, tackling the problem of public debt and fiscal consolidation is only part of the equation. the other part is restoring sustainable growth, boosting job creation and stimulating competiveness to ensure the eu maintains its position in a world economy that is now globalising at high speed. this job-friendly growth – as the heads of state and government put it at the council meeting in january – must be pursued in parallel with fiscal consolidation and this is, as you are aware, where the eib comes into play. it comes into play with long-term investment in key drivers of economic expansion. i welcome your backing for our commitment to focus on the knowledge triangle of research and development, innovation and education. indeed, investment in that area is vital for europe if it does not want to be sidelined by new actors in the global game. you will be aware that, since 2008, the eib has, on request by the member states and as a timely targeted temporary measure, extended extraordinary lending volumes in support of growth and jobs. last year the bank provided its highest ever contribution to the real economy: some eur 60 billion actually disbursed to clients at favourable conditions and long tenors. however, this has brought us to a limit, and this was clear from the beginning. this is because the eib does not spend taxpayers’ money but obtains all the resources it needs for lending by borrowing on the markets – eur 76 billion last year, almost half of which was from countries outside the european union which, by the way, is also an indication of trust and confidence in the european union. this gradual decrease which we now have in the operation plan was planned, foreseen and necessary for us to protect the finaical strength of the bank and retain the full confidence of our investors. however, it is definitely not satisfactory; i agree with that as well. so how do we reconcile this decrease in lending volumes with the request from our shareholders to, as it is said, strengthen support for smes and infrastructure and enhance action to support growth – to use the wording of the european council meeting in january? how do we make sure that, in times of need, the eib does not work pro-cyclically due to its capital constraints? rather than reducing the number of projects, we have financed a lower proportion of projects – and in practice a constant number of projects – in order to maintain our impact across a wide spectrum of areas. we have also made sure not to withdraw from countries in need, as that would contradict our role. we are aware that the current economic climate and budgetary shortfalls mean that we must find ways to do more with less. combining eu budget funds with eib resources, risk sharing and guarantees for financing mechanisms is one way of achieving this. however, at the end of the day we have come to the conclusion that the overall lending capacity of the eib remains constrained by its very capital base. this means there are limits to what these risk sharing instruments can achieve. a conventional capital increase, as you mention in your report, would definitely be the most effective way to remedy that but so far, understandably, the readiness and willingness of member states to boost our paid-in capital appears limited. given these constraints, another way to construct capital support for the eib would be to allow the eu to provide quasi capital. in the meantime, we continue to explore other alternatives in order to strengthen the bank’s capital base so as to allow the bank to do more. we do this while very clearly and precisely following best banking procedures and sticking to very basic principles which provide, or which are the guarantee of, the preservation of the triple-a status of this bank. this is essential for the business model of the bank and the european union member states. the shareholders of the eib should have a keen interest in the european investment bank, maintaining the balance – and this is the job of any bank – between risk orientation and preserving the good quality of the portfolio, in order to be able to maintain a high rating on the market, because that is the basis for our ability to borrow at very favourable rates and pass this on to the final beneficiary. that is the real economy, and that is where we must make a difference. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i find it particularly pertinent to assess the role of the european investment bank in the current economic context. i want to thank the rapporteur, mrs ivanova, and the european parliament, as well as president werner hoyer, for their very fruitful cooperation. looking at the current state of the european economy, our most recent forecast projected that the european union would go through a phase of mild recession or zero growth this year. while financial markets show some signs of stabilisation, there cannot be any room for complacency. we must continue with determination to conclude and implement our five-point road map for stability and growth. as the bank of the european union, the eib plays a crucial role in europe, and last year the eib supported projects of wide-ranging importance for the european economy with lending of eur 54 billion. to promote the europe 2020 strategy of jobs and growth and climate action the commission and the eib have been developing innovative financial instruments, such as loan grant lending and risk sharing mechanisms. we welcome the support of parliament. i would especially like to thank parliament for its constructive approach to our legal proposal on the project bond pilot initiative and the urgency with which the file has been pursued. since the council was able to reach an agreement yesterday, i am confident that the legislative process can and will be concluded by the summer. the pilot phase should already be having a positive impact. when we tabled the proposal last october we estimated the final multiplier effect to be at around 15 to 20 in terms of comparing the total effective amount of investment to the eu budget contribution. this is expected to mobilise investments of up to eur 4.6 billion in the pilot phase 2012-2013. but we must also see the bigger picture. a successful pilot launch can lead to programmes being more widely used, especially in the connecting europe facility under the next financial framework. this can create a long-term incentive for capital market investors to invest in this specific project, thus mobilising further resources for sustainable growth and employment in europe. let me also underline the important commitment the eib has made and is making to support the economic recovery of greece. last week the eib signed an agreement with the minister of development of the hellenic republic to create a eur 500 million guarantee fund which will provide a first-loss guarantee for eib support of eur 1 billion of sme lending by greek banks for small and medium-sized enterprises. we are also responding to the january european council’s call to strengthen eib support in general in europe for smes and infrastructure, not least in the other programme countries, and we are together considering possibilities for the eu budget to deliver the eib groups’ financing capacity. i agree with president hoyer that it is very important to look for creative and convincing ways of reinforcing the capital base of the eib. finally, the eib provided eur 7 billion of loans outside the eu, and we expect the eib to focus its external activity on operations in the preaccession countries, as well as in our eastern neighbours. it will make consistent contributions, with an emphasis on supporting the democratic and economic transformation in the southern mediterranean in line with the revised mandate adopted by parliament and the council. i am convinced that parliament’s assessment of the eib’s activities in the year ahead will be as supportive as its opinion on the 2010 annual report and i am very much looking forward to a continued, close and successful cooperation between the bank and the commission.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome president hoyer and the commission, and as shadow rapporteur i can only welcome the fact that in 2010 the eib increased to 19 billion, from the 16 billion planned, the amount of investment to promote projects in favour of the climate, energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, forestry and so on. another positive aspect is that the eib, increasing to 6 billion in 2010, up from 500 million in 2006, has certainly helped renewable energy, a strategic sector for the european union's climate issues. the improvement in the technical composition, increasing to 64% in 2011 compared to 40% in 2007, and the number of experts working on efficiency projects is also a positive development. there are two negative things, though. the first is that the eib must help more small and mediumsized enterprises and the second is that the eib must not help those projects on prohibited technologies - oil, gas and minerals - which we hope will be phased out over time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eib's work is certainly important, especially when it supports our small and mediumsized enterprises. i would like to point out, however, a fact from the 2010 report which leaves me somewhat puzzled. i cannot understand how turkey can be by far the largest recipient of funds outside the union. a large proportion of european loans goes to turkish companies, which are often in direct and unfair competition with our activities. from a political point of view, it is even more serious that a bank made up of 27 member states should grant concessions to a country which does not even recognize any of these same states and which continues to threaten europe with the next cypriot presidency. for these reasons i have tabled an amendment to freeze funding to turkey until the cyprus problem is resolved. i hope that parliament will not turn a blind eye today but will take this important initiative seriously.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the positive work done by mrs vălean, whom i thank on behalf of the whole committee, and certainly the outcome of this debate, offers an important tool for assessing citizenship, which is the one offered by the direct view of citizens. i thank commissioner rehn for pointing out, in his reference to the commitments made by the member states under the maastricht treaty, that any effort to achieve greater harmonization of systems must be made in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. i do not think that this will convince mr nattrass or mr migalski, but at least it will give them some additional elements for evaluation. i also thank the committees which have contributed to the important work of the committee i chair, namely the committee on the internal market, which with its proposal for a charter of citizens' rights is certainly giving further impetus to the european commission's intervention, the libe committee, which has focused on the issue of migrants and which has repeatedly committed the work of the committee on petitions, and also my colleague mrs gurmai. i agree that this is not the place to define the competence of the institutional committee which will be responsible for organising the popular initiative, but at the same time i think this is the appropriate place to talk about better services for citizens. in the report we point to the committee on petitions as the instrument which can best serve the right of citizenship. 57 points of criticism and points of favour are identified and i believe that they are not exhaustive of all the complaints that citizens bring to our committee. however, these 57 points certainly provide an important picture of the work that the european commission will be doing to promote european citizenship.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'united in diversity' is the slogan with which europe sums up its policy towards its citizens. this is yet another good-natured paradox that has been refuted by the facts. when it comes to imposing absurd directives and economic sacrifices on our citizens, the treaties require the member states to stand together. if there is no legal link, the events that call for cooperation and solidarity reveal the true spirit of europe, divided into 27 countries that are concerned with protecting their own particularities. how can we forget the scandalous reaction of europe to the events of the arab spring, when 50,000 refugees landed on the italian coast and the northern member states suspended the schengen treaty? and then, while in parliament we are asking for european citizenship to be given a new meaning, in the council eight member states are asking, after having benefited from it, for the european globalisation adjustment fund, that is to say the fund set up to help our citizens, to be suspended. europe should stop using slogans and propaganda to hide all its inconsistencies from the citizens, who are the real backers of the european dream. if we are not committed to helping them, then to make 2013 the european year of citizens would be just another act of hypocrisy.
madam president, i took advantage of the explanation of vote to call the attention of the house, or at least of the rest of the house, to a very important statement, the statement of the nobel prize winner in economics, joseph stiglitz, who, as we read in the columbia university journal, where he is a professor of economics, revealed that the ecb's decisions would be made under the guidance of a little-known body called the international swaps and derivatives association. worrying statements to say the least. does the european union wish to ascertain whether these very serious and important statements are true? because of everything you learn about derivatives, one thing is certain: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − in recent years, some raw materials, including natural rubber, have experienced significant price increases and high price volatility. for the european union, which is both import-dependent and the world's second largest consumer of natural rubber, it is essential to ensure fair, predictable and economically sustainable access to this raw material. the international rubber study group (irsg) is an intergovernmental organisation whose objective is to collect and disseminate comprehensive statistical information on the world rubber industry. i believe that this activity plays an important role in improving the transparency of the rubber market and market trends, which is a necessary condition for a better understanding and therefore control of the volatility of raw material prices. however, i would point out that the non-membership of some of the world's major rubber producing and consuming countries - thailand, the united states and china - weakens the authority of the organisation and calls into question its objectives and, above all, its representativeness. i therefore take this opportunity to draw the commission's attention to the need to do everything possible to increase membership of the group by extending the dialogue to the main rubber producing and consuming countries, as a prerequisite for its long-term effectiveness on the market.
in writing. − in recent years there has been a significant rise in natural rubber prices. the studies have shown that these increases are caused by short-term supply shortages, increased demand (in particular from china), decreased number of rubber trees planted and heavy rainfall in the main producing countries. such wide-ranging problems need to be addressed and resolved within the international rubber study group (irsg), the intergovernmental organisation, of which the european union is a member, whose purpose is to collect and disseminate comprehensive statistical information on the world rubber industry. with the recent amendment of the statute and the rules of procedure, the irsg will be in a better position than ever to be the forum for discussion in which to find common solutions for the rubber world, with the aim of better addressing the future problems of the sector.
in writing. - i am in favour of approving the text as amended. i am also in favour of extending the membership of the international rubber study group. the main rubber producing and consuming countries need to be involved.
in writing. − the amendments to the rules of procedure of the international rubber study group (irsg) in july 2011 take account of developments and the new legal status of the european union within this world organisation, which was established in 1944. the organisation has seen its membership decline over the years and has even been abandoned by some countries, although it has a central role in market transparency and the fight against abuse. the changes made seem to be effective and, as the rapporteur has pointed out, it is necessary for parliament as an institution to support and approve the conclusions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to work towards enlarging the membership of the international group on rubber by extending the dialogue to the main producers and consumers of this raw material. the fact that some of the most important producers and consumers are not members of the group weakens the authority of the organisation and its role as a platform for dialogue. the amendment of the group's statute and rules of procedure could ensure the relaunch of the group as an essential forum for discussion to improve the transparency of the rubber market and its trends, and thus to control the volatility of rubber prices.
in writing. the international rubber study group, which was set up in 1944, has lost credibility in recent years as asian countries such as thailand, malaysia and indonesia have been excluded from it. china and the united states, the world's first and third largest rubber consumers, have also been removed from the circuit. the individual european countries are now represented in the international group by the european commission. i am in favour of the text of the report because the problem of rubber supply is a problem felt by industry in europe and is closely linked to the more general debate on raw materials. the risk, as is happening with rare earths, of restrictions on the market for availability could create problems for our industries, favouring those of the rubber-producing third countries.
in writing. - my vote on this measure is of course in favour. the amendments to the rules of the international rubber study group are a mere formality. i hope that this vote will be an opportunity to reflect and to see whether it makes sense to continue in an organization like this, since the largest producing countries and some of the largest consuming countries have long since left the study group, or are now doing so.
in writing. − in recent years, some raw materials, including natural rubber, have experienced significant price increases and high price volatility. the studies have shown that these developments are explained by the increase in demand, in particular from china, the reduction in short-term supplies, the decrease in the number of rubber trees planted and the heavy rains in the main producing countries. this combination of factors has put pressure on the global supply of rubber. it is therefore necessary to increase the transparency of the rubber markets. this vote strengthens the international rubber study group, which is the most appropriate body to ensure equitable, predictable and economically sustainable access to rubber in the world. finally, efforts should be made to increase membership of the group by extending the dialogue to the main rubber producing and consuming countries.
in writing. − there are currently many european laws concerning air passenger rights, but i feel that there is a need for greater legal and interpretative certainty and for uniform application of the regulations in the union. i believe that information on passenger rights should be provided in a simple, appropriate and comprehensible way at all the essential stages of the journey, starting from the decision to purchase a ticket by the passenger. in my view, to ensure that rights are respected, it is necessary that there are contact persons at airports who can make timely decisions on the provision of assistance, reimbursement, re-routing and other problems that may arise as a result of flight disruption. i agree with the rapporteur that it is useful to formalise a european network of efficient and independent bodies, coordinated by the commission, and to publish information on complaints received from passengers. finally, i believe that passengers should have the right to change their personal information on their tickets in the event of an error without having to bear any costs for the operation, thus countering the widespread practice in many airlines of the general proliferation of unfair clauses in air carrier contracts.
in writing. - i welcome the initiative of this parliament on the application of airline passenger rights, which is why i have decided to give a favourable opinion on the report. i believe that the air transport sector needs stricter rules on the protection of consumer rights, in particular i believe that it is essential to pay greater attention to the rights of disabled passengers, who must be guaranteed access to a barrier-free environment, and to the safety of infants, who currently do not have seats adapted to their physical characteristics. i also think that the current legislation lacks in terms of the measures that airlines must take in the event of a flight being cancelled or seriously delayed, and for this reason i am absolutely in favour of imposing information requirements on alternative means of transport and temporary accommodation in these cases. finally, i stress the need for greater transparency in the area of co2 emissions and for better information on passenger rights, because i believe that a right can only be a right if it is recognised by all the citizens concerned.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european air traffic control system, which would enable airlines to comply with the rules on the safety of passengers. it will be necessary to ensure greater and more effective cooperation between the various actors, thus ensuring the protection of passengers' rights and making clear respect for their respective responsibilities. in addition, existing rights should be clarified and strengthened and consumers should be made aware of them. it is essential that passengers know their rights so that they can exercise them. for this reason, information on passengers' rights should be provided in a simple, appropriate and comprehensible way at all stages of the journey, starting from the decision to purchase a ticket by the passenger. to ensure that rights are respected, it would be desirable to have contact personnel at airports who can make timely decisions on the provision of assistance, reimbursement, re-routing and other problems that may arise as a result of flight disruption.
in writing. - the rapporteur's intention to encourage greater transparency and effectiveness in passenger rights, through a review of the 2004 passenger rights regulation, is to be welcomed, as it is made necessary both by the rapid evolution of commercial practices and by the risk of unforeseen natural phenomena which in recent years have exposed the many shortcomings of the protection system, especially in terms of delays and cancellations. however, some of the proposals in the report are contradictory and do not suffice to address the priorities in question. rules designed to strengthen the commission's role in this area, for example, risk creating excessive interference in the commercial practices of companies, in violation of free market principles, and increasing burdensome and useless bureaucracy. for these reasons, i thought it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. - i fully agree with the text of parliament which welcomes the commission's commitment to analyse and review the existing rules on air passenger rights in order to improve the situation of passengers, especially in the event of prolonged delays or cancellations. member states and air carriers should apply the rules in force correctly. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - what is contained in the regulation on the application of air passenger rights establishes a common assistance plan which would certainly improve the uncomfortable conditions which often arise between cancellations, prolonged delays or denied boarding. it is essential that passengers are informed of their rights in a simple and understandable way, have the possibility to change their ticket details without additional costs, be informed promptly in the event of cancellation or failure of the aircraft and that they have the choice between reimbursement, re-routing and rebooking. another condition that must be stressed, and i agree with it, is the unhindered access and equal opportunities for transport for people with reduced mobility. the lack of trained staff and infrastructure to cope with the obstacles that these people often encounter is one of the primary urgencies that must be addressed.
in writing. - mr taylor's report was voted on today at the mini-plenary session in brussels. the report aims to strengthen the rules on assistance and compensation in the event of cancellation or delay of flights, including delays in the delivery of baggage exceeding six hours. eu legislation has done much to strengthen air passenger rights, but more needs to be done to ensure fair treatment and wider rights for all travellers. among the highlights of the resolution is the call on the commission to draw up a standard form for any complaints translated into all the languages of the union; harmonise rules on hand baggage, put an end to unfair commercial practices, unilateral rescheduling of flights and price discrimination based on country of residence; in addition, the environmental impact of the journey should be indicated on the air ticket. passengers should also have the right to cancel or change their booking free of charge within two hours of booking. the resolution also calls attention to passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility who must have unhindered access to air transport services, including the right to use mobility aids.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the existing rules on air passengers' rights should be revised in order to improve their situation, especially in the event of long delays or cancellations. i believe that the proper application of the rules by member states and air carriers, the use of simple and appropriate means of redress and the provision of accurate information to passengers about their rights are the essential prerequisites for regaining passenger confidence. finally, the role of enforcement bodies set up by the member states needs to be better defined, as the effective protection of passenger rights is not always ensured.
in writing. - on the subject of air passenger rights, there is a need to clarify the notion of 'extraordinary circumstances' and the definition of 'cancellation'. this disparity between the laws of the member states and the behaviour of the different airlines requires the development of a unified, comprehensive and detailed system for assessing the value of the elements provided by airlines in order to demonstrate the existence of 'exceptional circumstances'. the vote seeks to harmonize the matter and to guarantee passengers all their rights and the utmost transparency. it requires timeliness and accuracy in the information provided to air passengers, which must specify the reason for any delays or cancellations, the expected duration of interruptions and what happens in the event of overbooking. not to mention the possible alternative travel solutions available to passengers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr taylor's own-initiative report because it calls on the commission to take action both to ensure that existing legislation is implemented effectively and to promote and simplify the use of instruments to protect air passengers' rights. the report emphasises the legal certainty of passengers' rights, their right to information and the independence and transparency of the modus operandi of the independent enforcement bodies to sanction violations and resolve disputes between passengers and industry. all too often passengers are victims of abusive behaviour by airlines which, taking advantage of the lack of information on their rights, arbitrarily delay or cancel flights without assuming the responsibilities that they would be legally bound to. i therefore hope that this report will provide useful suggestions for the review - due to take place next year - of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 on compensation and assistance to air passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation of flights or long delays.
in writing. - the veil of hypocrisy which has characterised de magistris' presence in europe up to now is being lifted. the former pm first dressed as a censor against the privileges of the caste, pontificating from the tv stands he set up. he then became a member of the european parliament and repeatedly asked for immunity from being called to account in court for the complaints he had received. today, as mayor, he still wants to be granted immunity to avoid prosecution. this vote is to say no to three proceedings against him. now de magistris will have to defend himself in court.
in writing. − the continuing incidents along the greek-turkish border and in the southern mediterranean, especially since the arab spring last year, are proof of the importance for the union of a comprehensive approach to immigration, including aspects such as strengthened border management and better governance of the schengen treaty, a widespread adoption of integration practices and a common european asylum system. policies relating to the area of freedom, security and justice have been under constant development for several years now. their importance is confirmed by the stockholm programme and its action plan, the implementation of which is a strategic priority for the next five years and covers areas such as migration, security and the management of external borders. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the establishment of a european refugee fund for the period 2008-2013 as part of the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i consider it a priority to amend the decision establishing the european refugee fund in the light of the establishment of a common eu resettlement programme. i believe that we need to increase the impact of efforts to provide protection to refugees and maximize the strategic impact of resettlement.
in writing. − i strongly oppose the council proposal amending decision no 573/2007/ec establishing the european refugee fund for the 2008-2013 programming period. i think it is unacceptable to link the resettlement procedure to the use of this european fund. since resettlement allows transfer from a third country with refugee status to a member state, this would implement illegal immigration and facilitate organised crime. i do not think that europe needs to encourage the arrival of new desperate species at a time of crisis such as the one we have been experiencing for two years now, which has led to job losses and increased unemployment, especially among young people.
in writing. - this morning i voted in favour of the text on the european refugee fund, considering that this fund is essential to support member states under particular migratory pressure, such as italy, malta and the countries of southern europe in general. in line with the hague programme's objective of establishing a single european asylum system, this fund has the noble task of financing capacity building projects by creating durable reception situations for beneficiaries. unlike the other funds, the european refugee fund had already gone through two previous phases with erf i from 2001 to 2004 and with erf ii from 2005 to 2007. i hope, therefore, that with the approval of the new 2008/2013 fund the objective of creating a single asylum system - based on the principle of equal treatment, guaranteeing a high level of protection to those who really need it, under the same conditions in all member states - will be further enhanced.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text of the report at second reading as the control of dual-use items is essential for the purposes of arms non-proliferation and is carried out through preventive measures such as the imposition of export authorisation and customs registration procedures. given the eu's new powers in the field of international trade, which came with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, this could be a significant step towards regulating the export market for dual-use goods by making it more transparent and democratic and preventing materials sold for one purpose from being used for another purpose.
in writing. − according to recent research, global spending on technologies for the management of otc derivatives alone has grown from just over usd 1 billion in 2008 to usd 3.5 billion in 2009. these products are traded between private contractors on a scale unimaginable a few years ago, with mainframe systems capable of completing thousands of transactions on the international market in seconds. the entire derivatives market has remained essentially unprotected from the risks it generates and the systemic repercussions on the global productive fabric, which were dramatically revealed by the crisis triggered in 2008, with the so-called collective investment undertakings in transferable securities (ucits) playing a leading role. in line with the g20 resolutions of pittsburgh (2009) and toronto (2010), the regulation lays the foundations for system governance based on risk mitigation, enhanced market transparency and operator accountability, anchored in the strengthening and reform of ccps, in line with esma's guidance. i therefore vote in favour of the report on the regulation, which also transposes the principles adopted by this parliament in its resolution of june 2010 on derivatives markets.
in writing. − otc derivatives are directly contracted between parties and are not traded on financial markets, so that the control of these instruments by the competent authorities is difficult and, given the legislative vacuum in this area, regulation is urgently needed. i believe that derivatives, when used properly as insurance instruments, contribute to growth and to global economic stability, but the recent financial crisis has highlighted the underlying risks in this market, and the danger is that the insolvency of a single operator has a knock-on effect on the whole system. this regulation contributes to financial stability by introducing the obligation to clear through central counterparties for most contracts, by making capital requirements more stringent for those that do not fall under the former, by ensuring greater dialogue between the national competent authorities and esma, and by imposing greater transparency on the contracting parties. the approach adopted is also consistent with the g20's approach to financial stability. in the light of the above, and in the belief that the new measures introduced constitute a significant step towards a more solid financial market and at the service of the real economy, i have expressed my favourable opinion on the emir regulation on derivatives and central counterparties.
in writing. - i welcome legislative action on this subject, particularly in the light of the role played by the derivatives market in generating the ongoing economic and financial crisis. improving regulation in this area means bringing transparency, clarity and stability to financial markets, as well as reducing the many risks that this market entails, and this text, through the introduction of uniform obligations for the exercise of the activities of central counterparties and trade repositories, fulfils this function. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i am satisfied with the text adopted in the trilogue. the european union needed a comprehensive and single regulation for all derivatives traded on both regulated and unregulated markets and more powers for esma, the european securities and markets authority. i am glad that despite the pressure from some states the compromise reached did not introduce too many exemptions from the application of the legislation and did not make the supervision by the european authority less stringent. the text has taken up many of the points made and supported by me in the econ committee, in particular the extension of the framework to all otc and non-otc derivatives and the introduction of some regulatory differences for non-financial institutions that use derivatives to finance certain activities and hedge risks; financial institutions that do not engage in speculation.
in writing. − financial derivatives are widely recognised as one of the causes of the global financial crisis. the regulation adopted today requires transparency and data availability for the benefit of the european securities and markets authority (esma), the european systemic risk board (esrb), supervisory authorities and central banks. it is a pillar of financial market regulation. this approach will offer consumers and investors greater choice and more efficient services. esma will monitor the functioning of such 'directories' and may authorise or refuse registration. esma will also intervene in the event of disputes between national authorities on the authorisation of ccps. the compensation obligation for pension funds will not start until after three years, with a possible extension to five. ccps from non-eu countries will be recognised and will only be able to operate if the legal regime of the countries in question provides for an equivalent system of recognition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the extension of the scope of application to standardised otc derivative contracts. those provisions are necessary to improve the transparency and the management of systemic risk in the otc derivatives market. at the same time, i believe that uniform rules should be introduced to ensure that the activities of central counterparties are carried out under good conditions. this vote underlines the importance of a stronger instrument for business. finally, good proportionality at the regulatory level must be maintained to avoid price increases to the detriment of consumers.
in writing. − given the concerns expressed by the parties concerned, i am in favour of postponing the deadline for transposition of directive 2004/40/ec on the exposure of workers to electromagnetic fields by two years in order to undertake a more thorough assessment of the issue, with a view to a more considered definition of exposure limits. while it is certainly necessary to ensure the safety of workers in the sectors concerned, it is also essential not to place excessive and unjustified limits on the use of the technologies, particularly in the health sector, where imposing disproportionately low exposure limits would directly affect the rights of the patient by limiting the possibility for the physician to use mri technologies. i believe that the entry into force of the directive in question without proper assessment could lead to member states not transposing it and to the inevitable infringement procedures. in order to avoid this unfortunate situation, i therefore consider it necessary to postpone the entry into force of the directive in question.
in writing. − considering that the concerns expressed by the european commission regarding the too low level of electromagnetic radiation tolerable for medical devices have been shown to be in line with the criticisms made by the medical community and companies relying on the use of radiation emitting machinery, i believe that it is necessary to support the new directive, which aims to amend directive 2004/40/ec, and therefore delay the entry into force of the latter, which is scheduled for april 2012. as regards the terms of the postponement, i think it is more reasonable to delay it to 2013: the definition of clear limits for electromagnetic fields is essential for the operation of companies and the transposition of the directive in a short time will benefit not only them but also the workers and the medical community. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i am fully in favour of the amendment of this directive on the safety and health of workers. we are now living in an age in which we are aware of all the risks to which many categories of people are exposed and therefore there is a need for specific safeguards and for efforts to prevent exposure, in this case to electromagnetic fields, from causing such high risks as to lead to permanent disability or death which could have been avoided.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report because it is important to lay down minimum safety and health requirements relating to the exposure of workers to the risks arising from electromagnetic fields. the medical community has expressed concerns that the entry into force of directive 2004/40/ec, which regulates the levels of electromagnetic radiation that can be tolerated by medical devices, is too low for both operators and industrial activities that rely on the use of machinery that emits radiation. the only point of contention is the deadline for transposing the directive, which was initially set for 2012, but the european commission wants to "delay" the deadline by two years. i think it is important, in order to protect workers and ensure a healthy environment for them, which respects the limits of tolerability, in this case, of radiation, not to accept the commission's request for a two-year extension to assess the problems associated with the limits considered too low, but to opt for one year.
in writing. − the current financial and economic crisis in europe requires strong and decisive measures to stimulate economic growth. tax revenue is certainly one of the most important instruments with which the member states can deal with the problems of the crisis. i fully support the proposal put forward by mr casa. i believe it is essential to create a european tax union which includes a comprehensive, rapid, efficient and user-friendly exchange of information between member states in order to improve the fight against tax evasion and to optimise the revenue of the member states' coffers. i hope that the partisan positions can be overcome and that common sense prevails in this difficult time. we must find a compromise, we must find new resources to deal with the crisis.
in writing. the report welcomes the implementation of the commission's proposal to the council. the technological advances now available to the emcs require an adaptation of the regulatory framework as a facilitator of administrative cooperation between states on the application of excise legislation. more than ever, economic operators are demanding quality of service and certainty of the standard: in this context, the increasing automation of the system will allow for a significant reduction in administrative burdens and streamlined procedures, to be accompanied by regulatory alignment initiatives, which serve to promote enhanced cooperation between member states in the field of vat and direct taxation, including in the prevention and fight against fraud, through automatic exchange protocols open to different and gradual options, to which member states are free to accede. it also stresses the lack of alternatives: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to establish a network of bilateral agreements in the european area, capable of supporting a coherent system of information exchange and administrative cooperation. the framework proposed by the proposal, which the report endorses, is characterised by its effectiveness, rationalisation of resources, regulatory and operational coordination, and the strengthening of legal certainty in the tax field: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i can therefore only express a favourable opinion.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties. the creation of a european tax union should include a broad, rapid, efficient, user-friendly and as much as possible automatic exchange of information between member states to improve the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. − the idea of improving and strengthening cooperation in this area would itself be highly desirable: the regulation presented by the european commission was precisely in this direction, providing for faster information exchange systems, more accurate controls and a serious fight to prevent fraud and evasion. however, during the parliamentary debate, the committee on economic and monetary affairs felt it was necessary to include a clear reference to the creation of a european fiscal union in the text: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i had tabled an amendment to delete this reference, but unfortunately the majority of the house voted against it. for these reasons, while i share the aims and much of the content of the text, i wanted to vote against the resolution, as i do not think it is right to insert clear political indications into a mainly administrative agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr haagerup because i think it is important to try to work on an eu regulation on excise duties. the aim is to create a european tax union, an ambitious and difficult project to achieve, but one which can already be discussed in relation to specific areas of application. administrative cooperation should include a comprehensive, rapid, automatic and user-friendly exchange of information between member states in order to improve the fight against tax evasion with particular regard to financial transactions and the internal market. taking into account the special conditions and characteristics of the tax system in each member state and the particular constraints of the outermost regions of the european union, the council will propose specific measures to define the conditions for the application of these policies.
in writing. − this report supports the european commission's introduction of administrative cooperation in favour of automatic exchange of information, as it reduces the burden and costs on businesses. it would also be good to introduce a common authority for vat and to set up a forum for excise duties where businesses can discuss related issues and where disputes between member states can be resolved. i believe that excise duties and vat should be harmonised at european union level to avoid unfair competition between companies operating in countries where excise duties are low compared with those operating in countries where they are high. i do not support the creation of a european fiscal union, because it risks creating a super-tax that will overlap with national taxes. for these reasons i am voting against it.
in writing. - i supported and voted in favour of the report by mr vaughan setting out the 2013 budget as regards the european parliament's expenditure. the report, in line with the need for austerity and moderation, focuses on identifying areas where savings can be made: freezing of travel expenses and allowances for members at 2012 level; new organisational measures for committee and delegation meetings to save on interpretation; reduction of 2,36% in mission expenses between the three places of work despite the increase in the number of agents. it is crucial to continue to demonstrate that the eu institutions are acting responsibly in the current moment of crisis.
in writing. - i believe that the european union should contribute to the process of rationalising public spending to help member states overcome the current unfavourable economic situation. the european parliament has therefore chosen to implement a reduction in real terms of its expenditure, a reduction which must of course be seen in the wider context of waste reduction, and which in itself represents only a small step in the desired direction. i have therefore decided to give a favourable opinion on this report. i believe that the line adopted is entirely consistent with the general objective of consolidating the national budgets pursued by the member states, and i take this opportunity to stress the need to move towards a reduction in the number of plenary sessions in strasbourg in order to reduce the burden of the double seat of parliament.
in writing. - having already argued on other occasions for the need to demonstrate that, in the current climate of austerity, the european institutions must be an example of budgetary responsibility and compliance with spending forecasts, i support this report which, despite some problems still to be resolved, seems to me an acceptable compromise. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the fact that the european parliament has two seats, one for committee work and one for voting in plenary session, is frankly anachronistic. the monthly commuting costs are very high and are unknowingly borne by european citizens. at a time when the world economic situation requires everyone to adopt austerity plans, the cost of relocating members, assistants, translators, interpreters and officials, together with documents and technical equipment of all kinds, is totally unjustified. the economic waste is due to the maintenance of two virtually twin seats which are both used by part-time members. i am referring in particular to the strasbourg office, which is kept up and running so that it can be used only five days a month. in order to take account of the environmental impact, in line with the attention parliament pays to the protection of the ecosystem in its activities, the transport of all the material on the trucks that make the brussels-strasbourg-brussels route once a month, together with the transfers of thousands of people, is certainly a cause of a co2 emission that we could save for european citizens. for these reasons, i therefore vote in favour of the establishment of a single seat for the european parliament.
in writing. - i believe it is essential, given the heavy burden of public debt and the efforts to consolidate national budgets, that the european parliament commits itself to a sense of responsibility and budgetary rigour, and that budgetary negotiations always aim at maximum efficiency. the commission has also been asked to present a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use.
in writing. - by voting in favour of paragraph 2, i wanted to express my agreement to a single seat for the european parliament. at a time of severe crisis such as the one we have been experiencing since 2008, and with the incessant demand for budget cuts, it seems to me right to review the position of the european treaties on the triple seat of the european parliament. it would be difficult to explain to the european citizens a different position from the one i have decided to take. i hope that our vote (passed by a majority of 429 votes to 184 against) will shake this historically unsustainable situation.
in writing. - i believe that the european union should continue to finance those sectors and enterprises which require economic support for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the global financial and economic crisis. i therefore voted in favour of mrs matera's report on the mobilisation of the building fund in the comunidad valenciana. the globalisation adjustment fund is necessary for the reintegration of workers into the labour market or for the protection of workers in precarious business situations, and it is also an indispensable tool for receiving the support from the european union that many small local businesses need.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is essential to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade flows. i therefore welcome the proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing. - the amendments to the rules of procedure, in particular to rule 116, which this report proposes, in addition to making it possible to lighten the agenda of plenary sessions, appear logical and consistent with the new institutional framework resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which sees the european parliament in the role of co-legislator. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the lamassoure report. i think it is right to maintain the possibility of asking the council specific questions during question time on matters which fall outside its legislative and budgetary powers, while the fact that question time has been abolished naturally reflects the institutional changes which have taken place in recent years.
in writing. - i congratulate mr lamassoure on his work. the text adopted in the light of rules 211 and 212 of its rules of procedure and in the light of the report of the committee on constitutional affairs is only the first step taken by parliament to underline its leading role in the european institutions and in particular vis-à-vis the council. following the discussion of the working document in committee on 27 november, when the working document was presented, it was pointed out that the abolition of question time reflects the change in the institutional balance. i think it is essential, however, to leave open the possibility of asking the council questions on matters which fall outside its legislative and budgetary powers.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because the recent deterioration in the political situation in belarus must be condemned. since the presidential elections of 19 december 2010, and despite repeated calls from the international community, repressive measures have been taken against members of the democratic opposition, the free media, civil society activists and human rights defenders. in addition to that, an eu-belarus diplomatic conflict escalated after the belarusian authorities requested that the eu ambassador and the polish ambassador leave the country, and recalled their own ambassadors from brussels and warsaw. in view of these last events i support the decision to withdraw all eu ambassadors from belarus and i believe that a firm commitment by all eu member states to act in a united manner can promote universal values in belarus and bring the country closer to the path of democratic transition. it is of fundamental importance to stress that there cannot be any progress in the eu-belarus dialogue without progress by belarus in terms of democracy, human rights and rule of law.
in writing. the european union must continue to fight for human rights in belarus with determination, without any conditions or hesitation. we must strongly call for the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners, and reiterate in all quarters that the eu-belarus dialogue cannot progress until the country itself makes progress towards democracy, human rights and the rule of law and until all political prisoners are unconditionally released and until they regain their full civil rights.
in writing. - i fully support the motions for resolutions tabled to deal with the delicate situation in belarus. this country has seen a deterioration in its conditions since the 2010 elections. repressive measures have been taken against members of the democratic opposition, the free media and human rights defenders despite repeated calls from the international community. we must embark on a path which will help the country in practical terms and bring it to a level of civilization and freedom equal to that of the countries that are part of our union.
in writing. the political situation in belarus has deteriorated severely following the recent presidential elections. in the country, repressive measures have been implemented against democratic opposition, free media, civil society activists and human rights defenders. the european union, which has an obligation to maintain good neighbourly relations, must by all means, through financial and political instruments, support the efforts to promote democracy made by belarusian civil society, independent media and non-governmental organisations in belarus. the european union is also calling on the belarusian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the elections in belarus are held in a democratic manner.
in writing. - i welcome the initiative to create a european democracy fund, not only for its noble purposes but above all because the beneficiaries will be activists for democracy and human rights. i would like to take this opportunity to mention the italian worker rossella urru, who was abducted on 22 october last along with two other spanish volunteers, enric gonvalons and ainhoa fernandez de rincon, of whom we have no news. people who have decided to dedicate their lives to serving others, far from their homes. like them, there are thousands of volunteers around the world who provide specific, timely, practical assistance to help populations subjected to undemocratic and unstable regimes turn the page towards a future geopolitical context of peace, security and respect for fundamental rights. i can only support this initiative, which finally recognizes the fundamental role of women in democratization processes, despite the fact that their dignity and rights are often violated.
in writing. − respect for and defence of human rights and democratic values are the cornerstones on which the european union is founded. article 8 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that 'in all its actions, the union shall aim to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women'. on 7 july 2011, the european parliament welcomed the initiative to establish a european democracy fund, as did the foreign affairs council. i agree with this proposal for a recommendation from the european parliament and i urge the council to outline the modalities for its creation. i believe that the establishment of the fund can be a tangible and concrete response by the european union to the challenges posed by countries that are demanding more democracy. i hope that this will happen as soon as possible, also in view of the time constraints imposed by the arab spring. it is clear and we are witnessing the instability in the middle east, and we must respond.
in writing. − the idea of a european democracy fund has been introduced into the wider debate on the review of european union policies and actions to promote democracy following the events in the southern mediterranean. the polish presidency of the council has made the european fund one of its priorities, working with all stakeholders to make the idea a reality. in my view, any new initiative or body for the development of democracy must have a clear added value compared to the existing instruments and organisations of the european union, especially in order to avoid duplication and overlap between the instruments and activities of the european union in the field of democracy building. while i recognize that the aspiration for democracy is expressly enshrined as a fundamental principle for the european union's action on the international scene, i express concern that many developing countries are currently experiencing a phase of development in economic terms only, without freedom or democracy for their citizens. finally, i would stress the importance of introducing a mechanism for accountability to the union institutions, including the european parliament, for the allocation of european democracy fund funding, in order to ensure the necessary transparency.
in writing. - in the face of the events which, together with the arab spring, have reshaped the geopolitical landscape of north africa and the middle east, i believe that the creation of a non-profit-making fund to provide funding to strengthen and support the democratization processes is more than ever necessary. i therefore wanted to support the report by mr lambsdorff, who, in addition to analysing the weaknesses of the eidhr instrument, which was created for these purposes but lacks in terms of effectiveness, makes a number of very interesting requests with regard to the new features of the fund: for example, the guarantee that it provides specific, flexible, transparent and controlled assistance.
in writing. - the report, which i voted in favour of, calls for the creation of a european democracy fund. the idea was put forward by the high representative for foreign affairs last may as part of the new profile of the european neighbourhood policy, especially in the light of the events in the southern mediterranean. the european democracy fund should become a priority of the european union and should be a semi-autonomous entity that can support activists for democracy and democratic developments, and which is characterised by a truly coherent and strategic approach to issues of democratisation. its operation should be light, flexible and effective, including through simple grant mechanisms, in order to respond rapidly to democratic crises and thus provide assistance capable of rapid reprogramming, where necessary, to facilitate the democratic transition. the fund will promote 'rooted and sustainable democracy' in pre-transition, transition and post-transition countries, with a particular focus on the european neighbourhood.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i firmly believe that europe must support the wind of freedom blowing in the mediterranean with a strategic commitment to the promotion of democracy, through concrete and urgent assistance. in this respect, i believe that the creation of the european democracy fund could be one of the most tangible responses by the eu to the challenges of democratisation in the european neighbourhood. the arab spring has brought europe face to face with the great democratic aspirations of the peoples of the mediterranean, as well as the urgency of dealing with the instability generated by undemocratic regimes in the eu's neighbourhood. in particular, the events we witnessed surprised us with the role played by civil society and the power of street protests. for this reason, i am very much in favour of a bottom-up approach that will ensure direct support to civil society. however, this instrument will only be able to operate effectively if clear and transparent rules for the allocation of funds are adopted, inspired by a cross-cutting involvement of civil society and a pluralistic approach to supporting parties and associations.
in writing. - i fully support the establishment of the european democracy fund as a flexible and effective instrument of support and assistance for all countries in transition from unstable and oppressive regimes to democratic political forms and systems. i believe that the time has come for the european union to ensure that this fund is in place as soon as possible (in the light of developments in north africa and the middle east) so that it can begin to provide coherent, immediate and respectful aid to the human rights and democracy community. the european democracy fund could be a unique instrument of action, in support of popular sovereignty in the eu's external relations, capable of supporting cooperation and fostering, as well as 'monitoring' the various processes of democratisation under way.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. the european endowment for democracy can be a useful instrument provided that it provides added value by playing a complementary role to that of existing funding instruments, in particular the eidhr and the instrument for stability, without duplicating or limiting their activities. they also agree that the fund could help to start projects which can then be continued by the eidhr or geographical tools, creating a programming interface that will ensure coherence and long-term sustainability.
in writing. - my vote in favour of the establishment of a possible european democracy fund is motivated by the fact that i find it necessary that there should be a semi-autonomous body to protect and promote those rights and those foundations which are at the heart of our constitutions and which, as has been found over the years, go to improve the quality of life of citizens. it is now up to parliament to give its support to an initiative of this calibre.
in writing. - i welcome the idea of a european democracy fund, which has been introduced into the wider debate on the review of the european union's policies and actions to promote democracy following the events in the southern mediterranean. the intention is to create a semi-autonomous entity that can support democracy and democratic activists, anywhere in the world, in a non-bureaucratic way and not directly associated with european diplomacy or the commission. i hope that parliament will be involved in the creation, governance and scrutiny of this possible european democracy fund.
in writing. the rapporteur's proposal to create a european democracy fund was born out of the need for a more flexible, transparent and less bureaucratic instrument to provide support for the strengthening of democratic institutions worldwide. the text outlines the characteristics of the fund, such as identifying potential beneficiaries, providing specific, timely and bottom-up assistance, particularly for the promotion of a sustainable and rooted democracy in countries in transition in the european neighbourhood. transparency and control should be ensured to prevent the diversion, sometimes due to corruption, of funds to support terrorist organisations in countries with weak governments or otherwise linked to crime.
in writing. - the events of the arab spring and the eastern neighbourhood have demonstrated the need for a strategic and urgent commitment by the european union in authoritarian countries and those aspiring to democratic reform. the creation of the european democracy fund could therefore be one of the union's most tangible responses to the challenges of democratization in many countries. political parties, leading politicians, social movements and representatives of civil society, the cultural sector and the media - including journalists and bloggers - continue to play a central role, but too often due to a lack of resources, support for these actors has been limited. the european democratic fund will be able to guarantee policies and strategies for democracy, coordinated and financially supported by the union, with this vote.
in writing. − i welcome the decision by the council to grant serbia eu candidate status and i support this resolution because it is essential to uphold the progress achieved by this country in the reform process. serbia is the crucial player in guaranteeing security and stability in the region. i believe, therefore, that accession negotiations should be opened with serbia as soon as possible, bearing in mind that further advancements in the european integration process are dependent on an improvement in democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights. it is also important to stress the necessity of improving the fight against corruption and organised crime in the country. we did indeed welcome the reforms to serbia’s judiciary and prosecution service and we call on the serbian government to step up its efforts to ensure the independence and professionalism of these sectors.
in writing. - i did not intend to support the report on enlargement to serbia. the main criticism of this transition is the difficult relationship between serbia and kosovo and the partial presence of parallel government structures in northern kosovo, as well as physical barricades. once again, i would stress that enlargement and integration, especially when the geopolitical situation is dangerously unstable, are not a binomial that is automatically realized, but only one possible scenario among others that are more likely and less favourable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is important to commit ourselves to all the western balkan states, supporting their accession to the european union once the pre-established criteria are met. constructive approaches to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are essential elements of the stabilisation and association process. in this sense, serbia is in a position to become an important player in ensuring security and stability in the region. bilateral issues should not be an obstacle to the accession process, nor be used to hinder it, but should instead be addressed in a constructive spirit, as soon as possible, taking into account the eu's general interests and values.
in writing. - i agree with the content of this report. in the light of the positive feedback from belgrade on the latest requests made by the european union, it is necessary to open accession negotiations with serbia as soon as possible, thus demonstrating the eu's commitment to the country's prospect of accession to the european union.
in writing. − the balkans have historically been a strategic area of vital importance for europe; the european union is the only institution in the world which is able to do so. i therefore welcome the decision of the european council last march to grant candidate status to serbia, a country of strategic importance for the enlargement policy as a whole. i believe, however, that in order to open negotiations, serbia will have to fulfil the conditions for membership of the union, namely the protection of human rights and minorities, which have been lacking in kosovo in recent years.
in writing. - president boris tadic said that serbia could get a date for the start of eu accession negotiations by the end of this year, but that this would depend primarily on further progress in the dialogue with pristina. the other main points are well known, and concern telecommunications, energy and the problem of the legal system. i believe that new possibilities for dialogue and for resolving the kosovo question will open up after the elections in serbia on 6 may. i would therefore ask the european commission to provide for election observers to be stationed at polling stations during the elections to monitor the situation closely. i welcome the recent attempt to amend the laws relating to elections, including local elections, and in particular the abolition of the undemocratic practice of political parties appointing members of parliament regardless of the order on the ballot lists and the abolition of 'blank resignations', as also mentioned in the text of the report we voted on this morning.
in writing. − the inclusion of kosovo in the stabilisation and association process (sap), which would allow it to benefit from community assistance (pre-accession instrument, ipa) and an autonomous preferential trade system, would ensure that kosovo would not remain on the margins of the eu strategy in the western balkans area. the commission, in its communication on the enlargement strategy of october 2011, highlighted how the post-election uncertainty has prevented kosovo from making substantial progress on reforms. furthermore, the council, in its conclusions of 5 december 2011, called on kosovo to implement the actions decided to address those shortcomings. i agree with and support the commission's intention to launch a feasibility study for an eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. while this commitment confirms the eu's will and commitment to take forward the initiatives outlined in the conclusions of the general affairs council of december 2011, it has also shown that it can make a significant contribution in socio-political terms, proving to be essential in reaching the agreement between pristina and belgrade on the sensitive issue of regional cooperation.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i support its aim of stressing the european perspective of kosovo. this perspective can be a powerful incentive for the several reforms that kosovo needs to undertake in many sectors. i support this report in spite of some of its drawbacks. for example, it would have been better to emphasise that the eu mission in kosovo is not performing its mission in a satisfactory way. so far little or no detailed investigation has been carried out into organised crime and its connections with the political institutions. consequently, a large number of crimes continue to go unpunished. i am deeply concerned about the role played by kosovar political-criminal associations in various criminal activities, including trafficking in drugs and human beings. for this reason we call on the kosovar authorities to increase the quality and transparency of the legislative process in order to provide kosovo with a sound legal framework and to improve confidence in the legal system. the persistent weakness of the rule of law delays the maturing of democracy and harms the economy, undermining long-term developments.
in writing. - i did not intend to support parliament's report on the state of kosovo's accession process. the serious internal problems of the country, which parliament has repeatedly pointed out, have not been solved or are in the process of being solved. i am referring not only to its unstable economic situation, lack of growth and high unemployment, but also to the country's endemic social problems. i would like to draw attention to the widespread corruption, the organized crime which is active throughout the country, and which is mainly linked to drug and human trafficking, and also to the problem of religious discrimination against orthodox churches and monasteries and ethnic discrimination against minorities in the country. all these elements demonstrate the difficulties which still persist in the country and which need to be resolved before moving forward in the accession process.
in writing. - high levels of corruption, organised crime operating throughout the region, particularly in the areas of drugs and human trafficking, discrimination against minorities, the rule of law and the media's relative independence, the unchallenged impoverishment of cultural and religious heritage, an economic situation characterised by high unemployment and no growth. these are just some of the serious problems facing kosovo. i voted against this report because its main objective is to support kosovo's accession to the european union and because i do not think it would be appropriate for a country with such problems to join the european union.
in writing. - i agree that we must reject the possibility of dividing kosovo in two. i also agree that all the states which have not yet recognized the state of kosovo should do so as soon as possible. the democratic situation is not yet at an acceptable level. my vote is in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on enlargement to kosovo because i support the european commission's initiative to launch a feasibility study for an eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. after the recognition of the country's independence, which unfortunately did not receive the unanimous support of the eu member states, kosovo began a gradual development towards full emancipation. internal problems of all kinds make it unsuitable for accession negotiations, but in order not to leave it on the margins of the eu strategy towards the balkans, kosovo has been included in the stabilisation and association process. the eu has also played a key role in facilitating the dialogue between pristina and belgrade for the conclusion of regional cooperation agreements.
in writing. - i am opposed to kosovo's eu membership both because of its negative economic situation linked to lack of growth and high unemployment and because of the corruption and organised crime that operate throughout the territory, in particular in the area of drugs and human trafficking. we must not forget the constant discrimination against religious minorities and the abuse of cultural heritage, particularly in relation to serbian orthodox monasteries and churches. serious irregularities were also found in the 2010 parliamentary elections, which were never resolved, and to date there have been eu members (spain, slovakia, romania, cyprus and greece) who do not recognise him as "sovereign".
in writing. the date of 24 february was a historic milestone in belgrade-pristina relations. the head of the kosovar delegation, edita tahiri, said the agreement meant that kosovo would be equally represented in regional forums as other countries and that without representatives of the international administration in unmik, kosovo individually would be able to sign the agreements. after this very important step in the dialogue between the two states, belgrade and pristina should now be able to sit at the same table when it comes to regional meetings and pristina will be able to open a representative office in belgrade. this progress in relations between the two countries is certainly an important step towards full membership for kosovo, but important negotiating chapters remain open in the tensions with serbia which are having a negative impact on the free movement of persons and goods and on general cooperation in the framework of cefta.
in writing. - its economic potential is not a valid argument for continuing to support turkey's accession to the eu. the europe of 2012 is a social and market economy where the sharing of a common feeling in respect of a shared heritage of value remains the ideological glue that gives meaning to all the sacrifices required of each citizen. turkey not only does not share or respect the community's ideological heritage - think of its relations with cyprus - but has also repeatedly reiterated its complete disinterest in continuing the path of accession. i therefore remain firmly opposed to turkey's entry into europe.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on turkey because it calls for the forced integration of two different realities, europe and turkey, in my opinion. in addition to the profound cultural diversity and the fact that turkey does not fully belong to the european continent, i am not convinced by the progress made towards a supposed european model, from which turkey is still very far away in several respects: the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those held in detention, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. a more acceptable option would be to create a privileged partnership, without seeking integration at all costs, which is nonsensical in many respects.
in writing. − the eu's dialogue and cooperation with turkey on stability, democracy and security in the wider middle east is strategic. moreover, turkey, built on a solid secular state, could, in the context of an effective reform process, prove to be a source of inspiration for the arab states in the process of democratization, supporting their efforts towards the completion of the democratic transition and socioeconomic reforms. i am not in favour of flooding turkey, but i agree that maintaining privileged relations with this actor is essential.
in writing. - it seems absurd to discuss any further the progress, which is nonexistent, made by turkey in its prospective accession to the european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. how can we open our doors to a country which does not even recognise the sovereignty of a member state and which even threatens to sever relations with europe during the next cypriot presidency? how far will the european union go to accept these continuing outrages? we must not forget that turkey has been occupying the territory of another country for almost 40 years, which is of course unique and unprecedented in europe. turkey is not part of europe, neither geographically, nor even less so historically and religiously: i do not understand why we want to continue on this absurd path of enlargement. we in the northern league have always been very clear on this point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i am strongly opposed to the text of the resolution on turkey's european integration process. there is an eu-turkey agreement, purely economic in the energy sector, both for supply and transit, but this cannot be enough to allow accession to the eu. unfortunately, the attitude of too many hypocritical europeans is aimed at a process of turkish accession. i would remind you that turkey should be a democratic state first and foremost, and it is not so today, since it occupies a part of europe (northern cyprus) militarily, has not solved the kurdish question and its foreign minister has reiterated that turkey will have no contact with the european presidency, which will be held by cyprus next july. it is unacceptable that the european union should succumb to the blackmail of a state such as turkey, which is far from meeting the criteria which the european union has set itself in the copenhagen agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the progress made by turkey, particularly in stressing the critical issues still open. as mentioned in paragraph 11, it is of paramount importance that turkey has a modern and efficient judicial system, which is fully independent and impartial and which guarantees a fair trial for all citizens. the fact that this objective has not yet been achieved is evidenced by the growing number of cases before the european court of human rights. the question raised in paragraph 29 also appears to be of fundamental importance for the purposes of modernisation. the government must (is called upon to) take the necessary measures to increase women's social inclusion and their competitiveness in the labour market, in particular through policies aimed at reducing the gender gap, especially in secondary education. it is even more important to mention here that turkey has been occupying the northern part of cyprus militarily and without any legitimacy since 1974.
in writing. − the turkish economy has tripled in size over the last decade, growing by almost 10% in the last year and is considered one of the fastest growing economies in the world. but because of its inadequate judicial system, as the hrant dink case demonstrates, the idea of joining the european union is still premature. the judicial procedures have not yet been sufficiently improved in terms of efficiency and standards to guarantee the right to a fair and speedy trial, including the right to access incriminating evidence and investigative documentation in the early stages of the proceedings and sufficient safeguards for all suspects. finally, there is concern about the wide scope of interpretation and application allowed by the anti-terrorism law and the criminal code, in particular in cases where membership of a terrorist organisation has not been proven and where an action or statement is believed to coincide with the objectives of a terrorist organisation.
in writing. − montenegro was granted the status of 'candidate country' for accession on 17 december 2010. the european council of 9 december 2011 asked the council to examine montenegro's progress with a view to opening accession negotiations in june 2012 and the commission to prepare the negotiating framework for the montenegro-eu negotiation. at a critical moment like the present, europe's insistence on enlargement is an irrational and illogical choice: it is not enough to assess the potential of the entry of a new economy, but it is also necessary to consider its social and sociological implications, which are too often underestimated.
in writing. - there is still much progress to be made, but i believe we should be satisfied with montenegro's commitment and constructive role in contributing to regional stability and strengthening good neighbourly relations with the other western balkan countries. it is also positive that montenegro is actively involved in several regional initiatives in south-east europe.
in writing. - in the context of enlargement to the western balkans, montenegro has proved to be the most successful country in meeting the requirements for opening accession negotiations. giant strides have been made in the fight against corruption and organised crime, in strengthening the rule of law and in terms of euro-atlantic integration, with the granting of nato membership, visa liberalisation in the schengen area and candidate status for the eu. i am therefore extremely in favour of the opening of accession negotiations with montenegro, which has been an official candidate since 2010, and i hope that the european commission will respect the deadlines set by the december council for the opening of negotiations as early as next june.
in writing. − montenegro has been a candidate country for accession to the european union since december 2010. on 9 december 2011, the european council concluded that accession negotiations could be opened in june 2012, provided that the country had made sufficient progress in implementing reforms, in particular in the area of the rule of law and fundamental rights. the main challenges for montenegro involve the fight against corruption and organised crime, the reform of its judicial system and public administration, and the creation of sustainable economic development for the country's recovery after the 2009 recession. montenegro continues to apply the stabilisation and association agreements without any problems. important laws have been adopted and the dialogue with the eu institutions and civil society has been further improved in line with the european acquis. progress has been made in science and research, audiovisual policies, public procurement and company law. nevertheless, montenegro faces important challenges both in adopting and implementing the necessary legislation in order to ensure alignment with the acquis in key areas such as social policy and employment, regional policy, environment, competition, and financial control, as well as free movement of goods, protection of intellectual property, agricultural policy, food security, fisheries, justice, freedom and security.
in writing. - i have defined corporate governance as the system of management and control of a company and therefore as the development of relations between managers, the board of directors and shareholders. i voted in favour of mr bodu's report, which highlights some important issues for the transparency and security of listed companies. among these is the 'respect or explain' principle which would oblige listed companies which decide not to comply with the code of conduct to provide reasons for this choice.
in writing. the report recognises the green paper as an important step forward in the rationalisation of the corporate governance system. as such, the book is open to critical review, with recommendations representative of the wealth offered by the diversity of business cultures in the union. the recommendations on boards of directors and shareholder rights are particularly significant. the social tensions across the continent, triggered by the financial crisis, have in fact dramatically raised the need to promote the values of transparency, rigour, measurement and the enhancement of human capital, within a framework of principles that is as homogeneous as possible. in recent years, the lack of a culture of moderation and sobriety, of transparency and of checks and balances has not failed to generate distortions and bad practices, the negative effects of which have regularly been felt by the majority of citizens. while respecting national cultures and the principles of individual and business freedom, the green paper, as complemented by the report's recommendations, represents an act of responsible governance in tackling with determination the deviations and anomalies that are harmful to european citizens. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − it is very important that the eu fosters the creation of a more transparent, stable, reliable and accountable business sector with improved corporate governance. in addition to ensuring better economic performance and the creation of decent jobs, this sector should be able to take account of social, ethical and environmental considerations in the context of the practices used and to demonstrate responsibility towards workers, shareholders and society as a whole. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − with regard to this resolution on corporate governance for european enterprises, i am in favour of the planned revisions and the input that will be made and that are contained in the green paper. our aim must be to create a more stable, transparent and reliable business sector within our union, so as to mobilise the economy and give a boost to the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe it is of the utmost importance to create a more transparent, stable and accountable business sector within the eu, characterised by better corporate governance. the business sector must therefore, in addition to ensuring better economic performance and the creation of decent jobs, be able to take account of social, ethical and environmental considerations and to demonstrate responsibility towards workers, shareholders and society as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because european companies need a clear legal framework. in the light of the errors which have contributed to the spread of the international economic crisis, it is important to stress the importance of certain rules governing markets. the business sector, in addition to ensuring better economic performance and the creation of decent jobs, should be able to take account of social, ethical and environmental considerations, as well as to demonstrate responsibility towards workers, shareholders and society as a whole. a high degree of transparency and a uniform management model are needed, all through legal integration and harmonisation between the various member states of the european union.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur and her colleague on the work presented, which i voted in favour of. for more than 50 years, the eib has been one of the european union's most important instruments for achieving its strategic objectives. in fact, thanks to its support for the real economy, its activity must continue to be strongly encouraged in order to develop successful policies at european level. the eib is 'the european bank' and its strong commitment to this is an important added value to the economic policies of the union to support growth. in 2010, the eib successfully completed its two-year anti-crisis activities by starting to return to pre-crisis lending levels and the governing council, in adopting its new business plan for 2011-13, identified three main priorities, such as support for the europe 2020 strategy, the fight against climate change and support for the union's foreign policy, to which it will devote greater attention. finally, financing operations are still an essential tool for ensuring greater support for smes, the real economic engine of the european economy, and the results must be assessed not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of quality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text on the 2010 annual report on the european investment bank. i fully agree with what it says and i congratulate my colleague, mrs ivanova, on her excellent work. in particular, i agree with you that it is important to define the effectiveness indicators in qualitative terms in order to achieve a more correct distribution of funding; i underline and promote the commitment of the european investment bank to environmental sustainability and to the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. and i encourage the commission and the eib to continue in the direction of cooperation in the field of innovative financial instruments. finally, i stress the need to take targeted action to maintain the eib's aaa rating, which is a necessary condition for the proper functioning of the eib; as the recent negative credit watch has shown, the institution is in danger of being downgraded in the future, which could jeopardise its funding opportunities.
in writing. − the european investment bank - annual report 2010 emphasises that transparency and better accountability for ‘global loans’ are vital. also essential to the report is the support granted by the eib group to eu smes. this should remain a priority of the bank’s activity as presented in the annual report since these enterprises are crucial to the eu and its economies. with the recent arab spring, it will be important for the eib’s external policies to support the growth efforts in those states which are experiencing difficulties in regard to their financial stability. this can be done by participating in investment projects that lessen the increased country risk.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, in voting on the 2012 annual report of the eib (european investment bank), parliament underlines that the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty seek to significantly increase investment in support of eu policies and to give greater flexibility, especially in relation to long-term financing, with particular attention to financing objectives in third countries, infrastructure and economic and social cohesion. i think that emphasis should be placed on the need to establish effective rules to specifically guarantee projects carried out outside the territory of the member states of the union and to legislate appropriately so as not to risk squandering the funds allocated. the main objective is to improve the bank's operations by increasing transparency vis-à-vis the supervisory bodies and parliament itself through an increasingly targeted use of financial instruments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i consider the european investment bank to be one of the european union's main instruments to support the real economy and its short and longterm strategic objectives. it is necessary to continue to develop its policies successfully at european level and to promote its key role in the recovery of the european economy and in supporting growth.
in writing. the european investment bank contributes to the development of the single market and to reducing development disparities between regions. the group's loans reached eur 52 billion in 2010, used mainly to support the external action policies of the european union itself. the institute carries out its activities to support the development of the european economy and to promote growth, stimulate employment and promote social and territorial cohesion, with a particular focus on projects for the benefit of less developed regions. this vote encourages the european investment bank to continue its activities. at the same time, a european system of prudential supervision is needed, under which the eib will be subject to the same prudential rules as credit institutions.
in writing. - the committee on petitions found that 25% of the petitions received concern issues related to free movement. this is not surprising, since many citizens feel a certain dissatisfaction with the european project when they find that some member states offer less favourable treatment than others, discrimination, lack of recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications, lack of adequate services for people with disabilities and problems in the field of family law. as the european parliament's ombudsman for international child abduction cases, i have noticed in recent years that with free movement there has also been an increase in the number of bi-national families, of which about 140 000 divorces per year are related to these families. the problem is compounded when child custody is involved, an issue that is often problematic and regulated differently in different countries. a striking example is germany, with the institution called "jugendamt", which gives a german parent the right of custody over a foreigner and tries in every way to prevent the child from being taken away from germany. is the commission aware that this example also constitutes a violation of the freedom of movement of persons?
in writing. − in recent years there has been an increasing number of petitions concerning the problems encountered by union citizens in exercising their right to freedom of movement. the statistics in the annual reports of the parliament's committee on petitions show that about 25% of the total number of petitions received concern problems related to the free movement of persons. the case law of the court of justice of the european union has, over time, given greater substance to european citizenship by placing free movement in a prominent role as a fundamental right from which a wide range of other essential rights for citizens derive. in my view, the right to freedom of movement is one of the european union's most valuable achievements. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's emphasis on informal networks for solving the problems of the citizens of the member states. finally, i take this opportunity to stress here the need to improve the union's communication policy, which is intended to ensure that european citizens enjoy the full rights enshrined in the treaties and thereby remove the obstacles to their full enjoyment.
in writing. i voted against mr valean's report. european citizenship will only have real meaning if it is first and foremost a choice made by each individual in the face of the revolution in the european institutional architecture, which is currently devoid of democracy. europe should stop investing in slogans and promotional campaigns to hide the inconsistencies that emerge when the 27 member states must be united in showing solidarity with each other: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. if we are not committed to helping each other, to make 2013 the european year of citizens would be just another act of hypocrisy.
in writing. - i congratulate the rapporteur on her work, for which i gave her my vote in favour. the report welcomes the 2010 citizenship report published by the commission, which aims to remove obstacles to the exercise of rights by citizens of the european union. it also points out that, although the right to petition the european parliament is expressly provided for in the european treaties, it is not sufficiently known or used and that it is necessary to move towards better and more active communication with citizens. the report must therefore produce a greater sense of belonging to the european identity which must not only be recreated but also nurtured and through the european year of citizenship, which will be celebrated in 2013, it will have to be demonstrated to citizens that with free movement there is also a free exercise of rights in europe. finally, i believe that the european citizens' initiative, which will enter into force on 1 april 2012, will represent the first instrument, and an important step, of direct and transnational participatory democracy, which will give citizens the opportunity to participate more actively in the definition of european policies.
in writing. − freedom of movement is one of the eu's most valuable achievements, as confirmed by the fact that 88% of european citizens (interviewed) perceive it as the most familiar of the four freedoms established by the eu. the 'fundamental rights and citizenship' programmes, together with the strengthening of synergies with other eu programmes, can certainly help to give new impetus to the concept of european citizenship and to remove the obstacles which still contain it. in this sense, the smooth functioning of the single market is based on the removal of obstacles to the economic and social cohesion of the eu, which can be achieved, as also reiterated by the commission, by updating directive 2005/36/ec in order to allow for faster and less bureaucratic recognition of professional qualifications. the 2013 european year of citizens should therefore be a further opportunity for europe to remove the additional obstacles which still prevent community citizens from fully enjoying their rights as european citizens, and to help build a single market at the service of citizens. finally, it should be stressed that eu citizenship, often considered as 'second-class' compared to national citizenship, can be used as 'preparatory citizenship' for non-eu nationals who meet certain requirements, such as 'good conduct'.
in writing. - women have equal dignity and rights with men. that is why i am voting against the introduction of the so-called 'pink quotas'. a man or a woman should be chosen for a given role on the basis of their competence and preparation for the job for which they are applying, regardless of their gender and sexual orientation. deciding in advance that a number of jobs, in politics or in business, should be allocated to a woman solely because of the sex she represents actually increases the discriminatory attitude that she will be hired because she is a woman, not because she is good". women have the right to be hired because they are competent, good and prepared. it is a question of finally banning the hypocrisy with which men try to ghettoise the role of women by granting them little formal benefits, in order only to lower the threshold of social discomfort. i believe in the extraordinary capacity of women workers and i am sure that with the right instruments, including incentives for companies, the need to consider the influence of pregnancy protection in the world of work will no longer be seen as a factor that is detrimental to the employment of women, but as a resource to make the opportunity of access to the world of work truly equal.
in writing. − i welcome the report presented by the commission in 2010 on citizenship of the union. the analysis carried out by interviewing citizens in the member states has shown that there is still a need for real change to ensure that there are common policies to protect and guide european citizens and freedom of movement, that informal networks are created for problem solving and that adequate communication is provided for the full enjoyment of the rights enshrined in the treaties.
in writing. − i welcome the 2010 citizenship of the union report as it aims to remove obstacles to the exercise of the rights of european citizens. i also believe that the proposals contained in it are concrete measures to reduce unnecessary expenditure and thus contribute to the purchasing power of the citizens of the union, which is particularly important in times of crisis. finally, i hope that all the union's institutions, bodies, offices and agencies will work to ensure that the right of access to documents is guaranteed, by improving its transparency in order to allow citizens to participate more closely in the decision-making process.
in writing. − one of the objectives of the european union is to remove obstacles to the exercise of citizens' rights. the '2010 citizenship report' identifies many problems faced by european citizens in their different roles (as private individuals, consumers, residents, students, tourists, professionals or politicians) and proposes some solutions to overcome them. a quarter of the problems are related to freedom of movement and residence. citizens often face difficulties in accessing social security benefits, in particular because the legislation on social security is complex, difficult to understand and sometimes inadequately applied by the competent authorities. they often fail to complete the correct forms or to meet the deadlines for submitting the necessary documentation because they were not properly informed or did not find the necessary instructions before leaving their country of origin. problems in the area of family law were identified, particularly with regard to child custody in the event of divorce or the recognition of marriages registered in another member state. the vote will seek to remove the obstacles to the exercise of the rights of the citizens of the union by harmonizing and creating continuity between the various national legislations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative, freedom of religion is increasingly in danger, particularly with the growing persecution and discrimination of christians in the middle east, sub-saharan africa, and more recently in nigeria, south-east asia, china, india, pakistan and north korea. in these countries, there are many cases of forced emigration, attacks and arson on places of worship and religious structures, torture and murder, kidnapping and forced conversion. at least 10% of christians worldwide, or 200 million people, are minorities in their own countries and potential victims of discrimination. we all know that religious freedom is a fundamental human right, but both the european union and international human rights organisations are unfortunately still not very effective in denouncing violations and protecting this right. i therefore reiterate the proposal already made on other occasions to establish a specific, accurate and annual report by the european parliament to monitor the state of religious freedom in the world and to strongly denounce violations where they exist.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what i hope is that a thorough report can be made on any violation of freedom of worship, wherever it occurs, and whatever religion is prevented from being supported, shared or carried on by anyone in the world. it is not a report which discriminates against any religion, it is a report which starts from a factual observation of the increasing number of attacks on christians in the world, which are increasing in severity and in number, as i have already said. i believe that, since this parliament considers the protection of human rights and all human rights to be fundamental, the protection of religion is perhaps the most fundamental, because it is based on an ethical requirement and not just on human needs, and therefore we must be united in defending it, because in this way we are consistent with the objectives of this parliament and we are consistent with the defence of human rights, which has been hailed many times in the world as a conquest of civilization. i'm sure you'll be on my side, as i am on yours.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report is an annual assessment of the extent to which the union's policies are geared to promoting human rights in the world. i am particularly in favour of a critical but constructive approach to strengthening policies to promote the human rights of women, who too often represent a weak and under-protected minority, despite the fact that in many rural areas of the world women are the heart of the economy and the main source of income for the family. the european union must strengthen its cooperation with international organisations dealing with this issue, including through a targeted funding policy, such as the united nations trust fund for the fight against violence against women. any form of discrimination and violence against women cannot be tolerated or justified by religious, political or cultural grounds. i take this opportunity to have the high representative in the house to ask her very strongly to do something for the two italian mares.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are all saying 'what a beautiful report' - it could not be otherwise - we are all taking turns to point out certain rights that are being violated, there has been talk of acts of discrimination and violence against women, of political rights, of selective abortion, of gays, of discrimination on religious grounds. i want to emphasize, mrs ashton, a category which receives no attention from europe. i have submitted a written statement together with my colleagues casini, záborská and takkula to emphasize the rights of the unborn child, the many children who are not born because pregnancy is often accompanied by socioeconomic disadvantages that do not allow women to carry it out. the rights of the unborn, not just of women, but above all of seeing the light of day, of coming into the world, of coming to life, are not being taken care of in europe. my written statement was rejected by the presidency on the grounds that it was not a matter to be dealt with. i would like to ask how many years, how many decades, how many centuries it will be possible in europe to consider the possibility of just discussing the rights of the unborn and then of recognizing the natural rights which, even to a creature who is waiting alone and only asking to come into the world, are often denied, and in a huge way, here in europe.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, the honourable members have ranged across a whole, important set of issues that fall under the universality of human rights. there are many many points that we can reflect upon. let me, in the short time i have, try and pick up on a few of these. first of all, may i say how pleased i am that mr sannikov and mr bondarenko have been released from prison in belarus. we are in touch, and i hope that we may be seeing an opportunity with belarus. this shows the strength of the european union; it shows the importance of being decisive in what we do, and it shows more than anything that standing together is so important. a number of honourable members have rightly raised the importance of faith, belief, conviction; the ability to worship and exercise belief, faith or none. i agree with all the concerns that have been raised about the importance of making sure that this is a core part of the work that we do on human rights. this is why we will dedicate a chapter in the annual report specifically to that, so that it becomes part of our human rights work but is highlighted appropriately. i hear what a number of colleagues have said about the situation in egypt, and we will continue to keep a watchful eye on how this is evolving. mr donskis talked about the subtle undermining of human rights. the challenge is to make sure that we focus not just on the most obvious ways, for example, the abolition of the death penalty (which is, as you know, something i consider to be a fundamental part of the work that we do), but also on the ways in which people are prevented from exercising their rights in more subtle ways. these two things are very important. they lead to that lack of dignity and respect that is core and fundamental to how we feel. mr tavares, i just want to say to you that my message on argentina had nothing to do with this debate. i was asked by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra if i would say something before the debate began about argentina because i cannot be here tomorrow. i agree with you about the terrible situation in guinea bissau. it is why, even before the coup last thursday, i put out a statement and called on all parties to respect the legitimate government, and i have been very strong in my condemnation of the coup. those who are in prison should be released immediately, and we have suspended most of our aid to guinea bissau. we are, of course, looking at how to make sure we can continue to give direct support to the people. but we will not support an illegitimate government, and i completely agree with you on that – but please do not think that i was trying to bring one issue into another. i really was not. it was a separate discussion before the debate. i agree, too, that honourable members have been in the forefront of wanting to see a special representative, and as you know i am currently working on the mandate for that person. we are looking for someone of enormous integrity and with great ability in this field. it will be an important role, and the appointee will need to have a good relationship with this house. this is something we want to continue to discuss. i was very pleased to see that so many people mentioned the issues of women’s rights and the importance of continuing to support women, especially women going through extreme circumstances of horror and terror, but also women trying to engage in the political and economic lives of their countries. very simplistically, we know that when women are engaged in society, societies are richer in every possible sense: economically, socially and politically, and the issue of forced marriages is one that affects many countries. when i was a minister for human rights in the country i came from, i did legislation on forced marriages there. this is something we need to take seriously everywhere. mrs ludford, i have already said before that we will look into that, but you know that i am deeply concerned about the use of the death penalty everywhere, especially, as i said to you earlier, over the 100 instances of the death penalty in iran so far this year. mr stevenson, you have been a champion on the issue of camp ashraf because of your concern for the people there. we are still in touch with martin kobler and are still pushing hard on member states, and i need the help of meps to make sure that we can resettle as many people as possible. this is crucial, but we are also offering to support the un financially in moving forward on this. so in a sense, the more i can rely on help from this house, the more i will be able to do. but you know how much i am concerned about this and how engaged we are on this. in terms of south africa on the point that was raised, we have agreed to launch a human rights dialogue with south africa where we can raise a number of different issues. i agree with what mrs gomes said about the importance of meeting with human rights activists. i try to do that in every country i visit in order to listen to them and hear from them about the situation on the ground and the realities of the life that they lead. i support fully the rights of lesbian, gay, transsexual and bisexual people, and this should be fully reflected in everything we do on human rights. such rights are universal. in terms of how we work with different countries, i have talked before about the spectrum of engagement to isolation and the importance of ensuring that human rights is one of the indicators of how we work with countries. we are often, as the honourable members know, trying to work with people in countries in order to support them while also trying to isolate and put pressure on their governments. the spectrum really matters in that we do not abandon people who are desperately trying to obtain their rights, but we engage where we can. on that spectrum of engagement to isolation, where engagement can be more effective (and it very often is), we need to make sure that we are there, willing to put the pressure on to try and make the difference. my final point is a bureaucratic one: benchmarking. we are working now on how to develop the methodology for this. we want to measure the performance, as a number of honourable members have indicated. there is quite a long way to go, but the action plan may also be an opportunity for us to examine. my final comment is to thank richard howitt again for the work he has done on this very important report. i know his personal conviction and commitment to this, and i pay tribute to that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 april 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in mali.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, after so much good news from africa, so many bad surprises in mali, a country which has also been a successful democracy in recent years: we have kidnappings, the threat of secession from the north, the coup d'état, fundamentalist gangs with the application of sharia law and the risk of famine; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of access to the market for the products concerned. mali is a collateral victim, partly also of the conflict that took place in libya, and it finds itself in a story that is bigger than itself, bigger than the malian political class. the real reasons lie outside its borders and in a history linked to the libyan conflict and, as has been said, even further afield. when we call in our resolution for a post-gaddafi strategy for the whole region, we want political cooperation and also security cooperation to be much deeper, to go beyond contacts, but to ensure food and political security together with ecowas, the african union and the un in their respective roles, knowing that the later we intervene, the more difficult it will be to find a solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few weeks there have been a number of incidents which i would simply call curious, but which are a very serious and dangerous idea. in italy, a group of pseudo-researchers, who have won european and international recognition, have expressed their intention to reconsider, or even ban, the reading of the divine comedy, dante's masterpiece known and appreciated for centuries by millions of citizens in every part of the world. they say the poem contains too many racist, anti-semitic and islamophobic references and should be revised in a modern and politically correct way. in vienna, the association of citizen restaurateurs has proposed banning certain traditional dish names, such as gypsy cutlet or negro bread, so as not to offend the sensibilities of others. these are not isolated incidents, but they represent a common and widespread feeling in europe, namely that we must deny our roots just to please different cultures, but a tree without roots dies, and so europe risks doing if it does not immediately change its tune and defend its origins and traditions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in italy is dramatic and our participation in europe is in crisis. this is because italian workers do not understand europe when they lose their jobs because large companies close down in italy to open in european countries that have lower labour costs. they do not understand europe if the ecb ostensibly finances small and mediumsized credit, but only helps banking institutions. they do not understand europe if a government democratically elected by italians is sacked and replaced by technicians who, as the only solution to the crisis, propose higher taxes and higher petrol prices. they do not understand europe if italian fishermen on the croatian border are penalized by rules which the croats, who will soon be entering the common market, do not respect. they do not understand europe if they exploit our resources in countries which have nothing to do with the old continent, which has historically defined borders: the rocks of stonehenge to the west, the grain of budapest to the east, the brandenburg gate to the north and castel del monte to the south: this is europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that this week in washington, many representatives of civil society and various political parties from around the world are meeting to urge president obama to do justice: the cuban government has been accused of spying and infiltrating the united states as secret agents of a foreign state, without any of this ever being proven. tried in a very hostile atmosphere in miami, they were sentenced to exorbitant sentences, in violation of the international covenant on civil and political rights. the un has declared this trial void, as it lacks the minimum guarantees of defence, and has committed the us government to releasing them. amnesty international has repeatedly criticised the us for its treatment of the five prisoners as contrary to all human rights. today all the stages of the trial have ended and the cubans have been in prison for 14 years, it is only up to president obama to remedy this grave injustice. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to what may be happening shortly in one of the most beautiful forests in italy, the cansiglio forest, situated between veneto and friuli. it is an area of very high natural value, part of the natura 2000 network. it is in this forest, already protected by the serene republic of venice, that for the first time, after a ban that has lasted for hundreds of years, hundreds of deer will be hunted, as requested by the provinces of treviso and belluno and the regions of veneto and friuli. even pregnant deer females ready to give birth will be brutally killed, as stipulated in the slaughter plans. under the pretext of overpopulation, which is disputed by wwf and many other associations, the italian authorities are giving the go-ahead to these killings. the european union must be more vigilant in ensuring that the directives protecting biodiversity are respected, and must punish any local authorities that do not comply with them.
member of the commission. − mr president, the broader picture of the future of the steel industry and, more generally, of industrial manufacturing in europe is, of course, primarily the responsibility of vice-president antonio tajani. however, we do work together in view of the implications for jobs. i think that it is with good reason that industrial policy is one of the flagship initiatives of the europe 2020 strategy, and we have to take this very seriously. i fully agree with you.
member of the commission. − the issue of social rights and social dumping has been mentioned in a question. i have been at the centre of discussions on the posting of workers, especially following a few famous court rulings in this area. this is why the commission wanted to address this problem through various proposals, but particularly as part of the posting of workers package amounting to a regulation. if adopted, it will help to address such situations in the future. i should say again that we have discussed the structure and the content of this proposal with all the stakeholders over the past two years, and we have said on these occasions that the commission will not reverse the jurisprudence of the european court of justice, but rather that it will do as much as possible to prevent similar conflicts from occurring in the future. in the event that such conflicts do occur, it will facilitate a much faster solution. we take a practical view of this problem as opposed to various ideological approaches, and i think that the document which we adopted in march delivers much to improve the situation in a very concrete way on the ground.
member of the commission. − there are two key points which i would like to make in response to this very concrete question. one of them is that, of course, in the judgment on this specific matter we have to see how the working time directive is applied in the country concerned. it varies greatly across member states, and that is why it is very important that in the current period the social partners at european level are negotiating about the working time directive and how to revise it. but secondly and most importantly, in this document, which we adopted in march, there are many points about improving administrative cooperation, and such differences in national regulations will be sorted out and addressed more easily in the future through this improved administrative cooperation.
member of the commission. − ms jazłowiecka, the intention and in fact the objective of the commission with this work is to continue to facilitate cross-border services while at the same time fighting social dumping and protecting the posted workers better. i believe we delivered this. the particular elements in this proposal concerning the construction industry will help clarify and improve the situation and build confidence around posting practices. the number of posted workers will not depend on this. companies will enjoy the same opportunities to provide cross-border services as in the past, but there will be a greater clarity about how to implement the existing regulation and how to avoid the problematic cases of the past. whether there is a demand and indeed a practice of posting depends on a variety of factors. it depends on the situation in the given industry and the markets and the needs for labour, geographic proximity, and various other economic factors. the fact that we now propose new practices to ensure and guarantee rights and improve administrative cooperation will, i believe, not undermine cross-border services. they will actually clarify the situation, build confidence and thus perhaps even facilitate more than in the past.
member of the commission. − for me this is not an opportunity to name and shame as regards best practices or to state where there have been fewer cases because very often the conflicts round the posting of workers have emerged because of differences in regulations: the lack of proper ground for a uniform interpretation of the european rules. we are acting to help the proper interpretation and to respond to the diversity of the european industrial relation systems in a better way through improved european practice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to put a question to the commissioner on the monti regulation on the exercise of the right of collective action. i think that the commission's proposal is unacceptable because it infringes the fundamental rights of the individual and the collective rights of representatives, because when it presupposes mutual respect between the freedom of establishment and the exercise of one's rights, and when it says that the strike must be balanced with economic freedoms, it interferes in an area which should be left to the parties. i believe that a formula of this kind is contrary to the material interests of the people they represent, but also to the rights which have been enshrined in international organizations and in the laws on the rights of working people, as well as on those of citizenship. i think that this proposal should therefore be radically changed, or even, as would be better, withdrawn, in order to open a debate which provides for a balancing point, but which is left to the social partners.
member of the commission. − mr president, this is indeed a sensitive point, but i believe that the correct interpretation will help to eliminate concerns and anxiety regarding monti ii. to clarify: the draft regulation confirms that there is no primacy of the freedom to provide services or the establishment of the right to strike. it will not impose any additional obstacles on exercising the right to strike. in fact, the monti ii regulation aims – without reversing european court of justice case law – to clarify the extent to which trade unions may exercise the right to strike in cases of cross-border operations, and to put forward rules for dealing with obstacles to the free provision of services or to the freedom of establishment created by the exercise of fundamental social rights. the monti ii regulation recognises that member states have limited possibilities to intervene in strikes and that the eu is not competent to legislate on the right to strike, as you can read in article 153 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i believe that the right interpretation of monti ii will help to eliminate misunderstandings on this issue, as was the case with monti i.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the regulation we are discussing is in fact contrary to the existing case law. in some member states there are forms of self-regulation which have been freely decided by the workers' representative organisations and are not imposed by law, and woe if that were so. i think that this is a sphere which should be left to the discretion of the individual - where forms of definition of the relationship between the strike and the effects it has on the user are necessary - and should not be in any way invaded by case law, whether these are actions taking place within a single country, or whether these are actions which may concern cross-border activities and therefore involve different countries.
member of the commission. − no, the commission was not fully satisfied with the argumentation and in my letter to the relevant ministers i also pointed to the insufficient analytical support for maintenance of the restrictions. these governments will have to send additional analyses in the coming period in order to justify their decisions, which have taken effect since 1 january.
member of the commission. − ms schroedter, the member states can build on the regulation which was proposed by the commission and which would be established as a european standard. this was actually a very important point for germany, as the principle of joint and several liability – a key element of the proposed legislation – has already been applied in that country. if there are still controversies – as in the one case in berlin that you mentioned – then this is very unfortunate. if the problem remains unresolved, then i would be very happy to look into the case when i next go to berlin on 5 june. the point is that the construction industry has faced many adversities and problematic cases, and we have to establish greater accountability. there are various instruments for this. there are ‘avoid lists’, which help companies that want to use subcontractors, for example, to see which companies apply good practice and pay their taxes and social security. all of this is very important in creating a cleaner environment and better practices, and in improving confidence regarding cross-border services.
member of the commission. − just two points: first of all, while i know that the government in berlin is comfortable with this element of the proposed legislation, may i just reiterate that they can maintain more regulation and more controls if they so wish. however, the intention of the proposed european legislation is to create a level playing field at a minimum level, as the regulation in certain countries was indeed insufficient. this is not about the level of the wages: it is about guaranteeing that workers actually receive the wages that they are entitled to, especially in the context of the posting. it would be too ambitious, of course, and probably also inappropriate, to try to regulate the level of the wages. the point is that there are more guarantees that the workers will actually receive what they are entitled to, and this is very good.
member of the commission. − i would like to make two points in response to this question. one of them is that there is indeed an important focus in this proposal on the so-called letterbox companies that simply move their centre of establishment to another country without having a relevant part of their economic activities in that country. it contains important provisions seeking to diminish – or even eliminate – such practices in the future. this is indeed a form of social dumping, and it does not help in maintaining fairness and a level playing field in the european economy. the second point i would like to make is that in europe the reality is that there are wage differences between various countries and various regions. there should be broader consideration of many policies – not simply a matter of legislation on one particular working practice – in order to see how convergence might be facilitated and the various tensions which are connected to these wage differences reduced in the future.
member of the commission. − what we judge to be a critical (minimum) level of economic activity should also depend on the sector and various other parameters which have to be looked at in the case of particular companies and countries. the important thing is that within a sectoral context it is possible to define and draw conclusions, if necessary, about improving the situation. the enforcement directive will in fact clarify the elements of the notion of posting, which will help to combat the use of temporary posting by so-called letterbox companies as a subterfuge to circumvent the applicable law. the letterbox company, i may remind you, has no genuine economic activity in the member state of establishment, and this is what we have to look at. concerning further proposals, yes, we will also be looking at the question of a minimum wage and other important issues in the labour market in the forthcoming employment package.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against youth unemployment is a priority for the european commission and there is €82 billion available, of which €8 billion is for italy. of course, as is well known, these are not additional resources, but unspent structural funds, which are important resources. the commission, together with resources, has provided action teams to support the eight member states with the highest unemployment rate, including italy, which reached 31.9% according to april figures. two months ago, the action team arrived in italy, but there was no public evidence of this meeting. so the question is: what's going on? what's going on? is there any information, can the commission give any information on the reprogramming of the funds, on concrete actions taken by the italian government?
member of the commission. − yes indeed, this is a very important initiative and a very practical initiative of the european commission. the eight action teams have been in the member states where the youth unemployment rate is the highest, including italy. i had an opportunity less than two weeks ago to give personal feedback to the italian public because i was in tuscany and attended an event on youth employment, together with the president of tuscany, mr rossi. i did that because tuscany has an excellent example: a programme which is supported by the european social fund called giovanisì, which could also be seen as a model for other parts of italy to provide public support to help young people launch their careers, launch their individual existence and have a better life. it supports hundreds of young people in that particular region and i am very proud that the esf is playing a strong role in this. the action teams came back. they summed up their conclusions and next week in the formal epsco council i will discuss with ministers the actual proposals. there are very concrete proposals for all eight countries regarding various aspects of youth employment and training. we shall then return in order to see what needs to be done in practice, whether it requires reallocation or not. reallocation is possible within the european social fund but also in the broader context of eu funds if justified.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have a question for you. why have the social partners, in particular youth organisations and young people, not been consulted, when the commission, also in its communication on the 'opportunities for young people' initiative, said that it was important to consult and involve the social partners and therefore young people, precisely to require their active and concrete involvement in these initiatives?
member of the commission. − first of all, i believe that the proposal for joint and several liability in the construction industry is not excessive. it helps create a level playing field and focuses efforts where problems are the greatest. i think it is also important to note that most of the famous – so-called controversial – cases in the history of the posting of workers in europe come from countries or areas where this liability regime is not applied. in fact, where it is applied in various ways, there is already a better, cleaner, less ambiguous practice with regard to the posting of the workers. but i should also add that, under the proposal which we made, the joint and several liability will not be mandatory if there is a due diligence procedure. in the countries to which you refer – some of the so-called highly competitive countries, although some of them might currently be in recession or a very difficult situation – there are good due diligence practices. in such cases the principle of joint and several liability would not apply. nevertheless, i still believe that it is a very important and helpful proposal. it simply requires a company to look at who the subcontractor is and at the background and history of that business partner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the unemployment figures are increasing and the commission has very clearly updated its employment strategy. in particular, the commission has given guidance to member states to try to balance austerity and deficit reduction measures with the need to increase employment and promote growth. these measures include greater flexibility, which does not mean job instability, but lower taxes on labour, more aid for new professions in the field of ecology, health and information technology, the introduction of the minimum wage, more employment for women - because they are an untapped or underutilized resource - and more employment for young people because the largest group of unemployed is precisely between the ages of 23 and 26. italy is a country under observation, as mr angelilli also mentioned, or more correctly, a country under supervision. mr commissioner, do you think that the reform being promoted - beyond the spending of the resources available - which means future, which means accompanying the european union's strategy, the reform being promoted by the italian government is in line with the indications of the new european strategy?
member of the commission. − i do believe that this is a transformative time for italy and that the labour market reforms are crucial in this effort. indeed, the objective is fully in line with the commission’s belief that we have to create a dynamic and inclusive labour market. the point which was made by the honourable member about the female employment rate is very striking. there are a few countries in europe – and italy is one of them – where the employment rate for women is below 50%. at a time when we have to make some transformations for the sake of cohesion as well as for economic competitiveness – and when we have agreed at eu level to reach a 75% employment rate by 2020 – governments have to address these situations. they have to introduce reforms, and this is the focus of the italian government’s programme at this time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i regret to say that i did not hear any indication in your reply, because i am convinced that the present situation in italy is one which the commission should pay more attention to. we received a letter in july last year in which we had very precise indications, i do not think that those indications, but above all the updating of the european union's strategy towards greater growth, are part of the reform of the italian government. it makes little sense to send action teams to italy if the basics for achieving the european targets, such as 75% employment by 2020, are not monitored in the time required.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr arsenis, mr patrão neves and mr romeva i rueda and their assistants for having made a substantial contribution to the success of this initiative. fish is a common good, providing 15% of the protein for over 3 billion people and the livelihoods of over 500 million people depend on fisheries and aquaculture. that makes it a truly global public good. the adoption of this declaration gives the commission a clear path to follow on the need to promote responsible behaviour, both among fishing communities and in consumer behaviour. the debate on the common fisheries policy now has one more reason to support action to take european policy out of the narrow corner on the methods of harvesting resources and into a policy of rules that are always internal. on the contrary, a strategy is suggested for the sea as a prime location for increasing its reproductive capacity, both in inland waters and through innovative forms of fisheries agreements with third countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask that the following paragraph be inserted after paragraph 101: 'it considers that the right of women to maternity is also one of their rights and notes that this right is often compromised by socioeconomic conditions which lead women to terminate their pregnancies. it therefore calls for support measures by the member states to support motherhood by helping women to remove the causes which induce them to terminate their pregnancies, where these are of a socio-economic nature. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. "
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to the house, i would just like to point out that the person who stood up (to oppose the oral amendment) was also an embryo.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims to update the 2004 and 2009 regulations in order to adapt the changes in the national social security legislation of the member states and to keep pace with the changes in social reality affecting the coordination of the social security systems themselves. the proposal also includes proposals from the administrative commission for the coordination of social security systems, whose purpose is to improve, modernise and acquire all this, in accordance with article 72 (f) of the previous regulation. the amendments contained in this proposal are designed to ensure legal certainty for the persons concerned and also to ensure appropriate coordination at european union level of social security and national security systems. it also reflects changes in legislation at national level and was necessary to adopt it because it takes account of recent developments in cross-border mobility affecting the coordination of social security systems.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the credibility of the european union at international level and the effectiveness of its human rights policies certainly depend on condemning violations and abuses committed in and outside armed conflicts, the disrespect for women, children and the most vulnerable in general, and persecution on grounds of religion or belief. it is also of the utmost importance to avoid the disparity of criteria between the european union's human rights policy and other external policies, thus promoting democratisation and supporting the fight against social inequalities, especially in times of economic crisis such as the present.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, following the adoption of the european union's annual report on human rights and democracy and the resolution on the european union's support for the international criminal court, the european parliament has committed itself to acting consistently and in accordance with the community's obligations in the field of human rights. an important step in this direction will be taken by implementing the national strategies already prepared in recent months. i agree with mr howitt's proposal to ask the commission to include in the 2005 council regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture, etc. an end-use clause 'for the purpose of torture'. this would allow member states to obtain detailed information and decide whether or not to block the export of the goods and substances concerned.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen rapid economic growth in azerbaijan, and its economic potential is obvious to all. we must also recognize that there has been a strengthening of the strategic role of this country as an eastern partner, particularly in the energy sector. however, we must remember that the gap in democracy and the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights in relation to the standards required by the european union has not yet been fully closed. i believe that these principles must also be considered essential for the smooth running of the negotiations and the conclusion of an association agreement with azerbaijan. i hope that the council and the commission will urge the azerbaijani authorities to adopt anti-discrimination legislation prohibiting discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. the reforms of the judiciary launched by the azerbaijani authorities over the past year should be commended, which should ensure greater independence of the judiciary and eliminate corruption in this sector.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, armenia is a key and strategic partner in strengthening bilateral relations in the south caucasus region. the renewal of the association agreements with the european union will be crucial in laying the foundations for strengthening regional cooperation. i was able to visit armenia with the euronest delegation and to take stock of the progress made in the democratic construction of a state of law and human rights on the basis of the partnership agreements launched in 1999. the participation of armenia in parliamentary cooperation with euronest is a good sign of the willingness to adhere to european values and principles, which are widely accepted by civil society. i voted in favour of the association agreement and i believe that armenia must commit itself to the settlement of the conflict in the southern area in order to avoid undermining the stability of the country.
in writing. - i have decided to abstain from voting on this report. on the one hand, at this particularly difficult time for european society, it is certainly necessary to improve the functioning of the systems of protection of workers, but on the other hand, considering that the social and employment situation is profoundly different in each member state, it is appropriate that the various social security systems remain separate, avoiding creating transnational interference such as that suggested by the report in question. the overlap of european systems, especially on specific issues such as unemployment benefits, is not advisable. for these reasons i preferred to abstain.
in writing. − the free movement of persons within the borders of the european union is one of the four fundamental freedoms guaranteed to citizens. in order to make this freedom effective, it is necessary to avoid, as far as possible, that the decision of a european worker to move to another member state entails a loss of rights acquired in the country of origin. to this end, a regulation was voted by the european parliament in 2004 to ensure greater coordination of the social security systems of the member states. in order to adapt that regulation to the changing legislative and labour market conditions, it needs to be amended. i therefore voted in favour of this amendment, which clarifies the position of selfemployed workers who receive unemployment benefits and of airline workers who work in several countries, who will be subject to the legislation of the country where the parent company of the airline is located, as laid down in the new legislation.
in writing. - the updating of regulations (ec) no 883/2004 and (ec) no 987/2009 which we approve today at first reading, thanks to the agreement already reached with the danish presidency - necessary to reflect the changes in the member states' legislation on social security and the coordination of social security systems - is a text widely shared by this house because it has been able to accommodate the positive needs of the trade unions in the sector. the clarifications on certain key concepts in the air transport sector will help and protect company employees against the risk of frequent changes in the legislation applicable to their contract due to industry work patterns and seasonal demands.
in writing. - while protection against unemployment for crossborder selfemployed workers seems to be a more than acceptable objective, the proposal under consideration raises a particularly sensitive issue concerning the social security system of each member state. the aim of the proposal is to harmonize and coordinate the social security systems of the member states in order to protect crossborder workers, but it is forgotten that social policies also include the thorny issue of unemployment benefits and minimum income, on which legislation differs significantly and which are the subject of heated debate, especially in the current economic climate. for these reasons, i thought it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. − the amendment of regulation (ec) no 883/2004 was made necessary to ensure a fairer and more appropriate treatment of social security schemes for crossborder selfemployed workers. the text is intended to provide certain guarantees for these workers, who are often involved in situations where the legislative framework is not always clear, since they work in a member state other than their country of origin, with different social security legislation which, in some cases, does not provide for depreciation or subsidies for selfemployed workers. the successful coordination of social guarantees for crossborder selfemployed workers through an amendment to the existing community regulation is a sign of attention to the variety of conditions in which european workers work, which are constantly changing.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report presented here. the fact that new social security systems must be created to coordinate with the requirements of new types of jobs, which we could also define as atypical, leads to the study and presentation of criteria different from those usually followed. these criteria must of course be respected by all the member states and must therefore be elaborated in detail in order to present a common plan. the re-training must lead to the employees being reintegrated into the labour market of their own state even after a prolonged absence.
in writing. - the report by mr cabrnoch was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. this report will improve the functioning of the single market by strengthening the social protection of many mobile workers in the eu, such as flight attendants and cross-border self-employed workers. the regulation also focuses on the situation of crossborder selfemployed workers (a worker who returns to his/her home country at least once a week) as regards access to unemployment benefits. in italy, there is no unemployment benefit for selfemployed persons. however, according to the text, a selfemployed person who works in an eu country other than his home country, where he pays the necessary contributions to unemployment benefit, and who returns to his own country, where such financial support is not provided, would still be entitled to receive the benefit paid by the last country where he pursued his activity. this measure would therefore apply to italy.
in writing. the text of the report aims to update the changes made by the national legislation of the member states in the field of social security. one of the most significant aspects of the proposal concerns the question of crossborder selfemployed workers, for whom greater protection and guarantees against the risk of unemployment are required in the member state where the last activity was carried out. the part we are not in favour of is the management of social policies, as we find it difficult to achieve harmonization in the short term. the risk for the member states with the highest numbers of non-eu nationals is that they will be obliged to provide for guaranteed minimum incomes. if italy were to make such a choice it would become a magnet for all the desperate people of north africa. i am afraid that the vote will be abstentive.
in writing. - i agree with mr cabrnoch's report on the coordination of social security systems, as i believe that there is a great need to update, update and clarify the social security conditions in the various member states of the european union. we are living in a historical moment in which crossborder mobility has become an increasingly important phenomenon and there is a real need for coordination in this area in order to ensure the security of our citizens and their future, without neglecting legal certainty for those concerned. i am therefore in favour of the need to find standard solutions to avoid discrimination between citizens of the union.
in writing. the variety and evolution of the conditions under which occupational activities are carried out require that the situation of highly mobile workers be taken into account. the coordination of social security systems has made it possible to ensure that all workers who are nationals of the member states are treated equally and enjoy social security benefits, regardless of their place of employment or residence. i voted in favour of this report because it provides a necessary update, incorporating the content of national legislation and introducing the individual amendments into european legislation. it also clarifies the conditions under which social security is guaranteed to those who work in the various member states. this is all part of the principle of free movement of workers, which is an integral part of the internal market.
in writing. - the european union's foreign policy is of paramount importance, especially in the context of trade agreements that can be concluded with other regions of the world. the main purpose of the treaty of amity and cooperation in south-east asia is to promote cooperation and development between the countries of the asean area and the third countries which have acceded to the treaty. i think it is very important that parliament has managed to speed up the bureaucratic procedures for the approval of the text so that accession to the treaty can be achieved as soon as possible, a treaty in which the eu will be the first non-state member.
in writing. the recommendation by mr elmar brok on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the treaty of amity and cooperation in south-east asia was voted on today in strasbourg with a positive outcome. the tac, originally intended to apply only to asean states in the south east asian region, with the aim of promoting their stability and cooperation, was amended in 1987 to allow other states to join, and in july 2006 the states parties of the european union also started the accession procedures, although the tac was not further amended to allow non-state actors to join. the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy has called on the commission to present a report on the situation in the middle east and to propose a new resolution on the situation in the middle east.
in writing. - the first parliamentary contacts between the ep and the asean countries took place in 1976, but it was not until 1979 that regular meetings between the ep and the asean interparliamentary organisation were established. they are now held on an annual basis, alternately in the ec or in one of the asean countries. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in southeast asia which we are voting on today aims to promote peace, stability and cooperation in the region, provides for the peaceful settlement of disputes, the maintenance of peace, the prevention of conflicts and the strengthening of security in southeast asia. asean opened trade negotiations between the european union and seven countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean) group in july 2007, and in december 2009 the european commission decided to continue the negotiations on a bilateral basis. negotiations are currently under way with singapore and malaysia, but vietnam has also shown a willingness to open a dialogue on this issue. given the importance of the region to the eu, this morning's signing is very important and it is a sign of europe's commitment to friendly relations with asean.
in writing. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia was signed in 1976 with the aim of promoting peace and political stability. originally reserved for the countries of that geographical area only, it was later extended to other nations (including france, russia, australia and the united states) helping to ensure and develop political and commercial cooperation at international level. i therefore welcome the accession of the european union to the treaty, confident that it will further strengthen the european presence and visibility in this region.
in writing. - the position of ireland, following the negative outcome of the referenda held in the republic, presents a delicate problem from the political, institutional, cultural and governance point of view. it also represents a challenge, which many have long imagined they could postpone indefinitely, compared with the development of governance models which, within a framework of institutional cohesion, can demonstrate that they are able to enhance the cultures of the member states, respecting the sensitivities of each european people and responding to legitimate concerns, when they should arise, on individual aspects of a political, social or cultural nature. in this sense, the decision of the heads of state or government to take up the concerns of the irish people on the lisbon treaty in relation to the right to life, the family and education, taxation and security and defence, through a legally binding decision and subject to a subsequent and specific protocol, is to be considered responsible and courageous. this assumption of political responsibility makes it possible to identify an alternative route to that of a specific convention. i therefore vote in favour of the motion for a decision before us.
in writing. - my approval of this draft protocol in relation to the concerns of the irish people follows one of the fundamental criteria of our union, namely the condition of respect for all the peoples who join. the position taken by the heads of state and government in responding to the concerns of this people in the areas of family, education, taxation, security and defence, which are reiterated in the treaty of lisbon, is right. a convention will be convened to encourage those who are still sceptical, although the proposed provisions have already been adopted since the treaty entered into force in 2009.
in writing. - the report receives a favourable opinion on the assessment of the european council's decision to examine a proposal to amend the treaties by adopting the said protocol. the concerns of the irish, which did not fail to influence the outcome of the 2008 referendum, will be addressed in the document annexed to the treaty on european union and its functioning. the council will make progress on the difficult terrain of compliance with their respective constitutional rules and the specific concerns expressed by the irish government, which is calling for a new protocol. the report's approach is therefore fully acceptable.
in writing. − at the european council on 19 june 2009, the heads of state or government of the 27 member states decided to provide the necessary legal safeguards in response to the concerns of the irish people on specific issues such as the right to life, family and education, taxation, security and defence, and agreed on the desirability of providing for a future ad hoc protocol to be annexed to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we therefore welcome the drafting of the text of this protocol, considering that it is necessary to respect previous political agreements between governments and that the content of the draft protocol refers exclusively to the situation in ireland.
in writing. − the main objective of cohesion and internal market policy is to organise policy initiatives aimed at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, promoting a high-employment economy that fosters social and territorial cohesion. however, the initial conditions in the outermost regions (ors) are an obstacle and a slowdown in achieving the objectives set, particularly in the europe 2020 strategy. as highlighted in the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the octs are entitled to a different treatment allowing them to benefit from the maximum level of aid, irrespective of their level of development. in this respect, i welcome the commission's intention to include a budget line dedicated to 'outermost regions and regions with very low population density' in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. i fully agree with the idea that the outermost regions should pursue the main objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, but i think it is necessary to stress the need to adjust the objectives to the specific situation of each outermost region, taking into account their regional diversity, their structural conditions and their potential benefits.
in writing. - i have supported the report by mr teixeira because i am convinced that cohesion policy in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, which focuses on the outermost regions (ors) of the european union, can only be effective if it is structured in ad hoc programmes and pathways that take account of the specificities of these areas and territories. the outermost regions differ from other european regions in that they are characterised by environmental, logistical and social constraints and permanent difficulties, but which can also be exploited as strengths for their small-scale economies. in particular, i believe that the historical relations which the ors have developed and consolidated over the years with third countries should not be underestimated either, since they can be a source of ideas and good practices for developing new opportunities in the future.
in writing. - the report deserves our support, particularly because it stresses that cohesion policy - by its very nature - must take account of regional and ultraperipheral specificities, but also, more generally, of all specificities. the very existence of funds for the 'cohesion' of regions with different degrees of development presupposes the need to operate in different structural situations, due to geographical characteristics or socioeconomic deficits. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the implementation of the cohesion fund. while efforts must be concentrated on the objectives considered to be fundamental, it must not be forgotten that, in order to achieve the same objectives, it is not possible to ignore the different starting points of the areas in which the instruments are actually operating. otherwise, efforts may prove not only futile but even counterproductive. the report also provides an opportunity to stress that future financial allocations must not be lower than the present ones. the only way out of the crisis is to boost investment and, even more so in the lessfavoured areas, the community institutions have a duty to create the preconditions for this to be possible.
in writing. − the eu is one of the richest regions in the world, but there are large differences in the level of prosperity between and within the various member countries. the 2004 enlargement further reinforced this phenomenon: it is not surprising that almost all the funding from the cohesion fund is allocated to the 12 newest member states of the european union. in addition to these countries, the european union also has 8 outermost regions, which are geographically distant from the european continent but which are an integral part of the member states to which they belong. however, the starting conditions for these regions are often less favourable than for other european regions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. this requires adaptation of european policies to the specific conditions of the eu's outermost regions, as only a programme that takes account of their specificities will enable these regions to achieve the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion and contribute to the achievement of the eu 2020 strategy objectives.
in writing. − cohesion policy, in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, must increasingly take account of the specific needs of the outermost regions of the european union. the octs require special and differentiated attention on a case-by-case basis, based on assessments of individual needs and difficulties, which are useful in order to apply the most appropriate and correct policy strategies for the growth and development of these territories. in this respect, both the reform of the new common agricultural policy and the definition of the new multiannual financial framework, which is currently being defined, are fundamental factors. it is not possible to imagine a europe that travels at two speeds, or that considers the ors as a whole, without providing specific economic policies to promote their growth. i therefore believe that in order to have a truly effective eu 2020 strategy, the objectives must be achieved by the european territory as a whole.
in writing. - the text by mr teixeira, for which i have given my favourable opinion, lists the measures to be considered as a matter of priority in order to adapt the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy to the eu's outermost regions. these regions enjoy a special status due to their remoteness and geographical configuration and therefore need appropriate analysis to be integrated into eu programmes and to achieve the goals of social inclusion, cohesion (a better tool for their small economies) and development of the eu 2020 strategy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment. only through a specific eu policy framework will they contribute to the achievement of the eu 2020 strategy objectives
in writing. − i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to adapt the implementation of european policies in the eu's outermost regions so that they can be facilitated in achieving the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion, contributing to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. european investment in these areas is not only a policy to make up for the delays and compensate for the disadvantages, but also an investment for the benefit of the whole european union. in order to assist the outermost regions, it is necessary to adopt a territorial approach to the implementation of european policies, thus pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the outermost regions of the european union are characterised by physical and structural disadvantages due to their remoteness and insularity, topography and difficult weather conditions. to counter these disadvantages, the outermost regions enjoy a special status established by the treaty, which allows for derogation from and adaptation of the treaty rules. this vote will be aimed at a better integration of these regions into the european union. the objective will be achieved through more effective governance through a multi-level governance system and through territorial continuity to improve access to the benefits of the development of a single market and its integration in the context of regional neighbourhood plans. this is not just economic support, but a tailored strategy that provides a development model that can take advantage of their opportunities for greater competitiveness, growth and employment.
in writing. − mr president, i voted for this resolution because it is a comprehensive text that underlines the need for the eu to avoid double standards between its human rights policy and other external policies. i am particularly pleased for the huge victory achieved in this parliament by the cause of the sahrawi population. the text adopted condemns the ongoing repression of the sahrawi people in the occupied territories, calls for the release of 82 political prisoners belonging to the polisario front and strongly supports the path of self-determination of western sahara in accordance with un resolutions. i am proud to have campaigned for this success today. the rights of the sahrawi are those of us all, and this position will have a bearing on the ep’s negotiations to end the last case of colonial oppression in africa.
in writing. - i agree with the positions in the report on the annual report on human rights by mr richard howitt. it provides a cross-sectional analysis of human rights issues throughout the european union, providing interesting insights for its improvement and future implementation. i think that the chapter on freedom of religion is fundamental and that it particularly highlights the problem of persecution of christians throughout the world. without the guarantee that the european project and its partners in third countries are guaranteed the fundamental rights of free expression of our christian roots and the protection and respect of our cultural identity, it would be pointless to be part of it. the european union's relations with all third countries must include binding clauses on the protection of human rights, which we cannot ignore.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i am firmly convinced of the inseparable link between respect for and promotion of human rights and the development and consolidation of democratic societies. in particular, recent events in the mediterranean countries demonstrate that the desire to protect human rights is strongly felt by the local populations; the european union institutions are therefore called upon to commit themselves to the protection of democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms by setting specific objectives in their development programmes with third countries that can be achieved within precise deadlines. i welcome both the presence of a large section on children's rights and condemnation of violence against women and the priority given to supporting efforts to abolish the death penalty worldwide. i believe that women's work is at the heart of the economy in many of the world's conflict areas and that for this reason they must be given greater involvement and their rights recognised as a full priority in the opening of negotiations aimed at pacifying these areas. finally, i welcome this report because it supports the new freely elected parliaments in their efforts to promote respect for and promotion of these inalienable rights.
in writing. − what i appreciate most about this annual human rights report is the breadth of its coverage, which does not focus on the specific problems of individual countries, but rather deals with every relevant aspect of human rights in a transversal way. considering the importance of including binding human rights clauses in all the union's relations with third countries and the need to implement the union's human rights policy in all other community policies, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr howitt's report because i believe that the text adopted by parliament today provides a positive basis for dealing with the difficult subject of human rights. the sensitive field of human rights covers a wide range of issues and must be addressed by the european union not only in its continental and political dimension but also in its relations with non-european countries. the european union's action must therefore continue to extend to the protection of civil rights, such as freedom of expression, gender equality and actions in support of pluralism and democracy. this parliament has done much and must continue to do much in the field of human rights. the commission has a long way to go and the good ideas of community policy in this field must be extended and improved in the context of extra-european relations, taking account of the developments in the social and political context.
in writing. − we believe that the european union must renew its commitment to the protection of human rights and democracy, placing it at the heart of all its policies. in order to maximise its credibility at the global level, the union must act in a consistent manner, in accordance with the treaty and the obligations of the acquis, but above all it must avoid the disparity of criteria between its human rights policy and other external policies, between internal and external policies, in the management of its relations with third countries. we recall that economic and social rights have also been an integral part of human rights since the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights in 1948. we therefore believe that the eu should contribute to the implementation of these rights in the least developed and developing countries with which it has international and trade agreements. the objectives of development, democracy, human rights and good governance are interrelated; we reiterate the need for all external action by the european union to be accompanied by a political dimension in support of pluralism, democracy and respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, a development dimension also focused on socioeconomic progress.
in writing. - i welcome the report on human rights, given the importance of the subject under consideration. the european union must continue its consistent support to ensure that the issue of human rights, especially in countries where authoritarian regimes still exist, overcomes the obstacles still present and reaches a position of global respect. the protection and promotion of democracy is, as always, one of the key points of our european policy, given the actual results achieved over the years. the eu must make further efforts to effectively integrate relations with partner countries and achieve that status of guarantee and support for citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that it is essential for the credibility of the european union in its external relations that its policies are consistent and exemplary, in line with its values and guiding principles, in order to maximise its credibility at world level and the effectiveness of human rights policies. the european union should make further efforts to integrate human rights and democracy more effectively into all development cooperation and to ensure that its development programmes contribute to the fulfilment by partner countries of their international human rights obligations.
in writing. - the european hypocrisy on the right to life of embryos cannot continue. the time has come to address and debate this issue without any prior censorship. the debate on human rights in the world has returned to the plenary this morning. in the report by the british mep richard howitt i asked for an amendment to include maternity among women's rights, and in my speech in the house i stressed that in future it would be desirable to pay special attention to the rights of the unborn child. the unborn child is a human being and deserves all the protection of social protection institutions and networks. the termination of pregnancy, by whatever technique, is both a traumatic experience for the woman and a choice from which there is no turning back. my position is clear: we demand official recognition of the right to life from the first days of conception.
in writing. − mr president, i support this report because i value the closer association of azerbaijan with the eu as a fundamental step for the eu eastern partnership initiative. the report acknowledges azerbaijan as a strategic partner of the eu, but at the same time it criticises the azeri government for its still insufficient democratic standards. in addition to that, thanks to our proposal, the progression of the association agreement is linked – as in the report on armenia – to the resumption of negotiations on the nagorno-karabakh conflict. the current status quo, which involves the illegal occupation of the territory of nagorno-karabakh by armenian forces, bloody incidents on the contact line and inflammatory rhetoric, is incompatible with european values.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the signing of a cooperation agreement with azerbaijan, despite the many problematic issues that are linked to this country, especially its historical, cultural and political proximity to turkey and its conflict with armenia. however, eu political action in the caucasus region is indispensable to safeguard our own strategic interests (especially in energy supply), to the extent that we cannot avoid reaching agreements with problematic political actors such as azerbaijan itself, which still holds a substantially undisputed primacy in the energy resources of the caspian sea. similarly, azerbaijan needs to be brought into cooperation with the eu in order to slow down, and possibly stop altogether, the risk of a new conflict in the nagorno-karabakh area, as a new destabilisation of the caucasus would have disastrous effects not only for asia, but probably for the entire planet. i therefore chose to vote in favour.
in writing. − i fully support the work undertaken by the union in the negotiations on the eu-azerbaijan association agreement. this country has a certain weight in the eastern partnership and it is necessary that agreements be developed for growth which can certainly benefit both sides, both economically and politically. as azerbaijan is an important energy supplier for our continent, dialogue must be encouraged and this line of diplomacy maintained to bring ever greater benefits, also in terms of benefits and opportunities for citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that the association agreement can bring tangible benefits and opportunities to the citizens of azerbaijan and the european union. azerbaijan plays an important role in the context of the european union's eastern partnership, which provides the political framework for strengthening bilateral relations, taking into account mutual benefits and the union's strategic interest in the stability and democratic development of the region. in addition, azerbaijan has become a major energy supplier to the european union and a crucial transit country for energy resources, particularly from central asia. finally, this country is making progress in the realisation of shared values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights.
in writing. − azerbaijan, which has enjoyed good economic growth in recent years, plays an important role in the eu's eastern partnership. azerbaijan has also become a major energy supplier to the european union and a crucial transit country for energy resources, particularly from central asia. at the same time, the union itself is an important energy market for azerbaijan. the vote will therefore be aimed at promoting not only economic convergence but also legal rapprochement with the european union. this is why it is necessary that the negotiations on the eu-azerbaijan and eu-armenia association agreements be linked to tangible commitments to make significant progress towards the settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict. confidence-building measures are needed, including the withdrawal of snipers from the line of contact, the withdrawal of armenian forces from the occupied territories around nagorno-karabakh and their return under azerbaijani control, and the right of all internally displaced persons and refugees to return to their places of origin and to recover their property.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr jäätteenmäki's report because i regard the agreement between the european union and azerbaijan as a great opportunity to deepen and develop political and commercial relations with the azerbaijani government. i also believe that this agreement can help to ensure greater protection of human rights in azerbaijan.
in writing. − mr president, i voted for this report because it recognizes armenia as a key partner of the eu and acknowledges the progress made by this country in the reform process. nonetheless, it also stresses the need to further step up the fight against corruption and the promotion of tolerance. as in the report on azerbaijan, we succeeded – thanks to an s&d amendment – to link the negotiation on the association agreement to credible progress being made on the resolution of the nagorno-karabakh conflict, including confidence-building measures such as general demilitarisation, withdrawal of snipers from the line of contact and the withdrawal of armenian forces from occupied territories surrounding nagorno-karabakh. i also strongly support the need to advocate the right of all internally displaced persons and refugees to return to their home settlements and properties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the signing of a cooperation agreement with armenia. the eu should take note of this proximity by formalising its political relations with armenia. secondly, it is desirable that the eu should strengthen its political presence in the caucasus, which is a region of the utmost strategic importance and whose stability is essential to maintain. if these agreements are to serve those purposes, they should be supported and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am in favour of this agreement, as i have said about the state of azerbaijan. the development of the negotiations on the eu-armenia association agreement will encourage the move towards more democratic living conditions and another primary aim will be to achieve effective economic and social cooperation. in this line of cooperation, the union will also be able to take a more decisive stance in the present conflict between armenia and azerbaijan over the long-disputed region of nagorno-karabakh.
in writing. - i congratulate mr poręba on the work he has done on this report. in adopting this motion for a resolution, in the light of the ongoing negotiations between the european union and armenia on the association agreement and the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between armenia and the european union which entered into force on 1 july 1999, the european parliament recognises the armenian aspirations and considers them to be a necessary catalyst for the implementation of reforms and for supporting public reforms aimed at strengthening armenia's commitment to the common values and principles of the rule of law, human rights and good governance. parliament called on the armenian government to continue to develop the defence of human rights, in particular by providing the latter with additional financial and human resources and by supporting the newly established regional offices.
in writing. − the negotiations on the association agreement between the european union and armenia provide the appropriate framework for deepening relations with this country, by intensifying political association, socioeconomic integration and legal rapprochement with the european union, as well as developing cultural relations and giving impetus to internal reforms. the active commitment of armenia to the implementation of shared principles and values, such as democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, which are essential to ensure the success of the negotiation and subsequent implementation of the association agreement, should be recognised. finally, i hope that the next parliamentary elections scheduled for 6 may 2012 will be held successfully, as they will be of fundamental importance for the development of relations between the european union and armenia.
in writing. - i am glad that the eu's relations with armenia are being discussed here in parliament, and that the report we voted on clearly identifies what i consider to be a fundamental problem in relations with the country, namely the unresolved problem of nagorno-karabakh. more and more often in karabakh we hear about war. such voices come from representatives of baku's political leadership as well as from political scientists and experts. karabakh is effectively internationally recognized as part of azerbaijan. the fact that by creating an atmosphere of fear and by periodically threatening the resumption of hostilities, azerbaijan can present as a compromise the simple fact of not attacking and not conceding anything else to armenia is the political strategy we have been witnessing for a long time now. azerbaijan is trying to keep the threat of war current, so that not fighting remains a concession. this is no longer a secret, it is openly spoken about. it seems to me then appropriate to recall that the demilitarisation of the region, together with the withdrawal of armenian troops from the occupied territories, are essential conditions for the maintenance of dialogue and negotiations within the framework of euronest.
in writing. - despite certain situations, such as the conflict in nagorno-karabakh, which are disturbing the stability and development of that geographical area, i believe that the association agreements are an appropriate instrument for deepening and improving political and commercial relations and for developing cultural relations with armenia and the countries of the south caucasus. armenia's european ambitions also represent the right stimulus and catalyst to strengthen the armenian government's commitment to the common values and principles of the rule of law, in particular respect for human rights and good governance, and to the successful conclusion of the association agreement with the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president barroso has announced measures for small and mediumsized enterprises, but does president barroso know that in my country, padania, every day there is a funeral for a small businessman who committed suicide because his company went bankrupt and he did not have the money to pay his workers, and his workers are at his funeral? your "no solutions" are taking the ship of european economics and finance straight into the iceberg of big international speculation, you don't seem to notice. we think of these "non-solutions", the "state rescue fund", a body not controlled by community organizations, but by the interest holders of international financial creditors, and then this giant - there is no president of the ecb - but we want to have the courage to say that there is a giant conflict of interest between the taxpayers, the european citizens whom we represent, and the owners of the ecb, that is the owners of the big central banks, owned in turn by private banks and private finance. this conflict of interest should scare us. let us get out of the single currency and back into national currencies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr barroso, i agree with those who say that there is a qualitative leap forward in european policy. the response from the eurozone has been strong, we have adopted new, strict rules on national budgets to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past, but these rules, which impose heavy sacrifices on our citizens, cover only one aspect. the time has come to focus on growth, and i agree with all those who speak of growth, because if we are to increase our public budgets by demanding even rigorous structural reforms, we must at the same time implement measures for growth, because otherwise in a global context europe or many of its countries risk recession. the problem we have today is the lack of an investment policy, the only way out of another danger, that of economic stagnation. this parliament is therefore at the forefront of these issues, such as the introduction of a discount factor - and i am addressing president barroso on the basle reform - a supporting factor for smes, that is, a supporting factor for small and mediumsized enterprises, on which a unanimous common response by all the european institutions is needed. in this context we cannot ignore eurobonds, but we must make a distinction because there is a lot of confusion on the subject. these eurobonds must be created by avoiding debt mutualisation. the third approach in the green paper also seems to me to be correct, but some changes are needed: there can be no revival of the european economy if at the same time the strength of the euro is not used. eurobonds make it possible to organise and contain public debt and to raise the necessary financing for the future of europe on the market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to ask president barroso a few questions, but i am happy to put them to commissioner rehn. mr commissioner, have you and the european commission read that the international monetary fund forecasts that italy will not reach the budget balance in 2013 and very likely not in 2014? does this forecast make you think? i am talking about italy, but i could talk about other countries. the most curious thing is that the imf tells us, of course, that if there were no recession, italy would have a surplus of 0.6%. that's great. but the problem is that the crisis is there, the recession is there, it's hard to pretend that it's not there. commissioner rehn, are we in europe making choices based on an analysis of the situation we are experiencing or are we simply applying a doctrine of abstract principles? i think we continue to be focused on objectives that are not aligned with the trend of the business cycle. commissioner, we have been given an overview of the european commission's growth programmes today, but are you sure that growth based on the principles of supply-side policy is sufficient without considering the at least equal importance of a policy acting on the aggregate demand side? i would like to end by making a plea: i ask you to speak to the european citizens in the language of truth, the truth about the crisis and the reality that we do not yet have choices to make today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the commission for its extraordinary commitment to the crisis, but i would like to make a few comments. first, president barroso said that investment is a priority for growth, so we need to go beyond pilot projects and launch a real european project bond initiative. secondly, we need an ecb as lender of last resort, above all we need to heed the alarm cries of european smes who are asking us to make a commitment against the credit crunch, including by introducing the sme supporting factor in the basel review to support business credit. we are not cutting the budget, president barroso said, because the common good is achieved if each member state does its part, but then we are eliminating some anachronistic position rentals, such as the british cheque. in conclusion, a thought goes to rome, the capital of italy, because tonight there will be a silent torchlight to remember the many entrepreneurs who have taken their own lives because of the crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, let us stop at the emergency, because today too there are very strong tensions on the sovereign debt market and the first thing that needs to be done is action by the european central bank. the difficulties of countries like spain do not reflect the fundamentals of the spanish economy and are not due to excessive public spending but to the schizophrenia of the markets. in the face of this disorder on the markets, the european central bank must play its full role, using its monetary policy instruments effectively to oxygenate the public finances of countries in difficulty and to provide liquidity to the banking and productive systems. the reference interest rates must be reduced to support investment and to counteract the economic stagnation forecast yesterday by the international monetary fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i was disappointed by the speech by president barroso. as has been said by many - most recently by mr domenici - there has been a failure to recognise a fact which is obvious to all but the european institutions: we are moving from a recession to the risk of a depression and in this scenario, meeting the six-pack objectives of the fiscal compact is simply impossible. there is only one solution to this recessive and depressive twist: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. the solutions, the recipes that president barroso has proposed to us alone cannot work. we need investment, and since a significant increase in the european budget is not realistic today - even if we are asking for it - we need public investment and therefore a reform of the six pack which introduces the golden rule on a proportion of public investment which must be broken down by the calculation of the structural deficit. that is what europe needs today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, germany sells to china for 50 billion euros and at the same time sells to italy for 58 billion euros and to countries such as portugal, greece, spain and ireland for 54 billion euros. so i think that at the heart of our situation there has to be a deep sense of interdependence. this sense of interdependence is not reflected in the european institutions, because at times it seems clear that when measures are taken, no account is taken of what others are doing. the ecb has intervened strongly to refinance banks, but there has been little concern at the level of governments, for example, to ensure that that funding then reaches businesses and households. so , be careful . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would be a better figure than to show that the institutions are not even there when they should be, as they were this afternoon.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, on behalf of the european commission, i would like to thank you for organising this debate so quickly. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, foreign direct investment, and in particular the protection of such investment, has been an exclusive competence of the european union, which means that the european union has both the right and the responsibility to act in defence of european union investment. the issue of the nationalisation of repsol's holding in ypf raises serious concerns. we need to look at this measure in the context of a series of protectionist measures taken by the argentine government in recent months, such as, for example, extensive measures to make import licences non-automatic. we have already pointed out these protectionist measures to the world trade organization, along with more than a dozen countries. we are now looking at what further action we need to take against these protectionist measures, including the way of the trade dispute settlement mechanism. i have listened carefully to all your arguments and concerns. i can assure you that the european commission will look at the situation carefully and will strongly remind argentina of its obligations under international law, using all the means at its disposal.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank everyone present here today for sending a very clear signal to the argentine government. it is a signal sent by the commission, the danish presidency and a huge majority in this house. i hope that the argentine government will listen, because this is not only an issue implicating a firm or a country, it is an issue between argentina and the eu, and it is therefore important that we see it that way. the council will now discuss the matter at the foreign affairs council next monday, under the leadership of the high representative, lady ashton. as i said in my first intervention, we will take full account of the debate this afternoon. i might add that the issue will also be dealt with in several other forums at a technical level in the council, and the options that the eu has will be examined here in order to take concrete action against the plan to nationalise ypf. against this background we will be working closely with the commission and this parliament to make sure the right solution is found.
in writing. the spanish reaction to the argentine government's move to expropriate the oil company ypf has led the eu foreign minister to finally promote a meeting of the council of foreign ministers on eu-argentina relations, to clarify relations in economic and financial matters. many european investors have long been calling for the intervention of the european institutions, claiming their rights, violated by the decisions taken by the argentine government after its "default". the committee on petitions has dealt with this issue in the course of its work, prompted by numerous petitions. the commission's declaration that it had no competence to regulate financial relations with argentina, which were relegated to the realm of bilateral negotiations, led me to address the request for intervention to the eu high representative, inviting her to review trade relations and to use them as leverage to obtain due compliance from the argentine government. the privatisation of the group's capital, of which the spanish company repsol holds 57.4%, will certainly have a strong negative impact on the markets. but the ones caused by the non-payment of millions of citizens have contributed not a little to worsen the financial crisis, intervening more widely but certainly not less accidentally.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is all very well to defend and protect the environment, but i would like to know how far we are going to go. the price of energy products in many countries has reached historic highs, as in italy, where filling up your car has become a real chore. the proposed solution would certainly lead to further increases in fuel prices and the usual people will always pay, those for whom the use of a means of transport is essential for getting around and for work. i do not think that the european union can afford this situation, which would bring many strategic production sectors to their knees and would ultimately result in higher energy and fuel bills. in italy, the monti government is also considering introducing a "carbon tax" at the national level. one blow is followed by another and in so doing citizens and businesses will die in the name of a false and exaggerated environmentalism which, in italy as in europe, serves only to make money indiscriminately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since mr lambert has said that the best way to eliminate the views of those who oppose these rules is to identify them as dangerous lobbyists, i shall base my speech on an automobile-type system. it seems to me that we are operating under the principle of 'the polluter pays', which is a good principle, a sacrosanct principle, as sometimes happens on formula one circuits. in formula one, you race to win. when someone runs to throw the other person off the track instead of to win, accidents happen. the safety car then enters the field to restart the race on a more level playing field. i believe that if we approve this new tax without approving the rapporteur's line, and therefore approve the amendments, indiscriminately, we will have run a race to get rid of the opponent, which in this case are our companies, it is the citizens who have the right not to perceive these taxes as a way of taking over their lives, and we will also be doing a disservice to the polluter pays principle. i think we must have a balanced attitude, so we support the rapporteur's line, we want the amendments she has proposed to be adopted, precisely because it is possible to give the whole of europe the chance not only of having a better environment, but of having that better environment while continuing to compete with the other great world powers, otherwise we will make our proposals unreliable to the citizens, and the citizens will punish us, considering all our positions to be abstract.
in writing. one of the aims of the amendment of this directive is to introduce a taxation component linked to co2 emissions in order to favour less polluting products from a tax perspective. however, the commission's proposal - by requiring member states to tax products used for the same purpose at the same rates and by eliminating the possibility of exemption for certain products - is likely to have the only effect of unsustainably increasing the tax burden on those fuels and fuels which are actually helping to reduce environmental pollution. for example, in the case of lpg used as fuel, there would be an increase in taxation of about € 0,370/litre. it goes without saying that lpg vehicles would lose any economic advantage in use over their petrol counterparts. the same applies to natural gas and methane: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only more environmentally friendly but also more environmentally friendly. i therefore hope that the principle of proportionality of excise duties will be abolished, so that member states can have the flexibility to set the level of taxation according to their energy policy.
member of the commission. − mr president, in june 2011 the european council encouraged the commission and the eib to enhance the synergies between loan programmes for greece and eu funds. the aim was to increase greece’s capacity to absorb eu funds and to stimulate growth and employment creation. in july 2011 the heads of state and government of the euro area and the eu institutions extended the scope of that political mandate. they invited the commission and the eib to enhance the synergies between loan programmes and eu funds in all member states benefiting from eu or international monetary fund assistance. in january 2012 the european council invited the council, the commission and the eib to consider possible options for enhancing eib action to support growth, including the possibility of using the eu budget to leverage the eib group’s financing capacity. in october 2011 the commission adopted a proposal to amend council regulation (ec) 1083/2006. the objective was to enable the use of available allocations under programmes cofinanced by the european regional development fund and cohesion fund to back up guarantees and loans granted by the eib or by other national or international bodies with a public mission offering adequate guarantees – the so-called ‘risk-sharing instrument’. the target member states are those experiencing serious difficulties with respect to financial stability and which have been granted financial assistance according to one of the existing mechanisms. the measure is intended to address the serious obstacles faced by some member states, particularly greece, in raising the private financing needed to implement infrastructure and productive investment projects, which can only be part-financed by public funds. this is particularly the case for infrastructure projects which generate net revenues, the value of which cannot be covered by grants financed through cohesion policy instruments. it is also the case for productive investments, for which the maximum allowable public aid is capped by state aid rules. the recent approval of an increased rate of co-financing by the eu to 95% is part of the eu response to the crisis. however, it is not enough, in particular for the revenue-generating projects, since the investment costs covered by revenues are not eligible for eu co-financing. the measure proposed is an exception to the normal framework in which cohesion policy is implemented and is justified by the circumstances imposed by the crisis. since the publication of the commission’s proposal, there has been intense debate with the council and parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the committee on regional policy, and in particular its chair ms hübner for her support in this process. i would also like to thank the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and of the committee on budgetary control and their rapporteurs for their support. the adoption tomorrow of the hübner report will open the way to securing strategic investment projects financed by cohesion policy without increasing the eu budget allocated to it and without having a significant impact on the eu budget. it will facilitate the implementation of important transport and environment infrastructure, as well as other economic infrastructure projects which will provide a much-needed boost to economic activity and job creation in greece. in greece alone, the effective implementation of important infrastructure projects in the transport sector will, it is estimated, create some 50 000 new jobs. other member states most affected by the current financial and economic crises may also benefit from this legislative proposal. in recent years, cohesion policy has been mobilised several times to contribute to the changing needs of member states under severe crisis conditions. excellent interinstitutional cooperation made it possible to shape tailor-made crisis assistance, which was available within a short time. i therefore call on the members of the european parliament to give their support to this legislative proposal.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to amend regulation no 1083/2006 may make it possible to transfer to the direct management of the commission funds allocated to member states which, because of the current financial difficulties, are in danger of losing part of their own resources allocated to programmes co-financed by the erdf to the cohesion fund. the extension of this proposal to all member states, which i propose as rapporteur for the cont committee, would be strategically relevant for countries such as italy which, although not in the same debt situation as greece and portugal, are also having to fight the crisis. the picture is therefore clear, although there has been no release of funds, the programming is very poor and does not allow for the achievement of positive results. the possibility envisaged by the amendment would therefore not be the transfer of funds or the loss of resources, but an act of humility which would allow some countries to organize their spending better and to direct it towards objectives consistent with the needs of the community. the financial crises have not spared any european nation and to limit this opportunity to a few countries is a grave mistake.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the members for their remarks. i am glad to see that we share the will to help those member states most threatened by the economic and financial crisis. in terms of extending the proposal to all member states, i know that this issue was raised during the discussions in the different committees and during today’s debate. let me underline that this is an exceptional crisis response measure, justified primarily by the severe situation of greece, even if some of its elements may also be present in other member states receiving financial support. on the other hand, at a time of strong budgetary constraints, extending the proposal to all member states would potentially have a strong budgetary impact. regarding the scope of the legislative measure, initially the commission proposal addressed only national strategic reference framework projects. after discussions with the member states, the eib and meps, it was agreed to enlarge the measure to operations which contribute to the objectives of the national strategic reference framework of the requesting member state and the community strategic guidelines on cohesion. in the commission’s view, this is a good compromise that will secure cohesion policy projects, taking into account other projects which fall under cohesion policy objectives. the commission expects that a significant number of projects will be in the environment sector, including renewable energy. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that covering projects which are not related to cohesion policy would raise a series of questions, mainly of a policy and legal nature. the risk-sharing instrument is a specific response mechanism addressed to a specific number of member states. it cannot be considered to be a mechanism that offers an easy way out of reprogramming structural funds or accelerating absorption. in conclusion, i would take this opportunity to underline that cohesion policy has again proven that not only is it a structural investment, it can also provide short-term assistance. i therefore call on the members of the european parliament to give their support to this legislative proposal.
the agenda includes the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the use and transfer of passenger name records to the united states department of homeland security (17433/2011 - c7-0511/2011 - 2011/0382 ((nle)) (rapporteur: sophia in 't veld) (a7-0099/2012).
i would like to tell mr morvai that i have already accepted three requests for a blue card and that we cannot accept any further questions now, not least because the debate must continue and then he will have the opportunity to put his question to some other speaker.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i go into the arguments, i feel it is my duty to acknowledge the great balance in the conduct of the debate and in the words which mr lópez aguilar has spoken with great dignity and seriousness, and on which i believe no one has dared to propose serious and well-founded counter-conclusions. i think that this morning, rather than carrying out a series of philosophical and legal considerations, we should think responsibly about the right to security of our fellow citizens - and above all about those people, workers, young people, who have been victims of terrorism, perhaps a train carrying workers, young people, and so on - and about the right to security, which we must also put before our personal and political considerations, those of a eurosceptic group which i do not think will be able to vote as mr batten has said. as for the lega nord, it will certainly vote in favour of this measure, not because we are not sensitive to the serious and motivated reasons for privacy, but because we think that the whole world is at present facing the danger of widespread terrorism, which could even be nuclear.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fragility which all our colleagues, including those who will vote in favour today, have denounced in relation to this agreement is easily understood if one refers to a step taken by both commissioner malmström and the council, when they spoke clearly about the new and important concessions which are contained in the agreement. i am not saying that we should not be concerned with the question of the right to vote, but we should be concerned with the question of the right to vote. this is the real problem, i would say more cultural than political, which exists today in the relationship between the european institutions and the american authorities, and it is this problem which has allowed the american authorities, rather than dealing with the european institutions, to rely on negotiating separately with each of the member countries. there is no foreign minister or european prime minister who has not been made aware of this dossier in recent months. nevertheless, and i acknowledge the objectivity of this, i believe that not only the concern for security, but also the consideration of the progress being made in this agreement, must lead us to vote in favour, because, quite honestly, the european union's united and biting position is not built overnight, it is not possible in a single step to transfer the ability to entrust the european institutions with the guarantee of the rights of all european citizens. we are doing this day in and day out and i think that was very well represented by my colleague and president lópez aguilar in describing how lively but also how profound the debate in the libe committee was. that is why the italian delegation of the ppe in the european parliament will vote for this agreement with conviction, waiting for better times.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, you have said it right, it is not a perfect agreement, if we had done it we europeans would have done it differently, but this is not a directive, this is an agreement, an agreement between the parties. an agreement is always better than no agreement, and it is an agreement that makes us take steps forward, which may also allow for further improvements because every year, not secret agreements, as have been made with all the countries of the european union, but a european agreement will return to parliament and will be verified in parliament, and then a political fact must be taken into account: europe is sitting at the table with the united states and entering directly into american jurisdiction. i thank my group for allowing freedom of vote and the delegation of the italian democratic party to vote in favour of the agreement.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the intervention of the council and commissioner malmström, but i believe that today we must finally talk about a real european strategy focused on combating trafficking, preventing it and protecting the victims. the role of the european coordinator, whose staff is, in my opinion, unreliable, is very important, and it requires a strong commission approach to ensure that all the member states set up similar bodies to support the national rapporteur with permanent consultations and with ngos, which are often the most active in this area, and with a strong link with the police, the judiciary and the cyber police for internet crimes. it is also important to compare the measures in place in the various countries on customers and demand deterrence, to go one step further and link the interventions on children in a more holistic way in the implementation of this directive and the directive on child pornography on the internet. i believe that the training of justice workers is crucial, but also the consistency of legislation and i point out the seriousness of the situation of those in our country who have had humanitarian residence permits since 1998 and i hope that this government will change this point because today the crime of clandestinity for illegal immigration has been introduced which is making it impossible to apply humanitarian residence for women victims of trafficking.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with the adoption of the trafficking directive the european union has taken a fundamental step forward in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states of the european union to combat all new forms of slavery. the discipline defines common rules on the definition of an offence and the level of sanctions, it ensures greater protection for victims, especially children who, in my opinion, are perhaps the most vulnerable category, the one that runs the greatest risks and who therefore must be protected by strengthening sanctions, also for crimes committed on the web. as is well known, the directive will have to be transposed in 2013, so there is still a year to go, but i would like to ask a few questions and ask what the member states are doing and how crossborder cooperation between police authorities is proceeding, what data has been collected on this matter and also some news about the announced information campaign. why am i asking these questions? because i believe that the commission must somehow monitor the situation in the member states and somehow support them in the correct and effective transposition of the directive, because the directive is certainly a state-of-the-art legislative instrument of which we should be proud, but my concern is that the member states may be a little behind the target or in any case encounter implementation difficulties, so in my view we must follow this process with responsibility for the best outcome of the work we have done.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking is certainly a heinous crime, but it is also a crime of a transnational nature. the aim is to combat this by means of international cooperation between member states and third countries, with the european institutions playing a leading role. we must defeat the exploitation of prostitution, illegal work, micro-crime, but to speak of human trafficking without speaking of organized crime - because very often human trafficking is in the hands of organized crime - would be to have a partial approach to this very disturbing phenomenon. the crim committee, of which i am the rapporteur, was set up in recent days and there is no doubt that one of the concrete directions and one of the political priorities will be to make the most of our work in order to have a greater relationship of collaboration and cooperation with third countries, because we believe that legal and regular migration should be encouraged, but it should be decisively challenged and defeated - or at least we will try to do so - with illegal migration. the european union must therefore make bilateral agreements with individual third countries on the regulation of migration flows, the protection of fundamental freedoms through firm guarantees, and the collaborative role of europol and frontex in particular, based on two principles: solidarity and responsibility, without which progress is certainly impossible. this is the strong line we will also take in the crim committee, and the fact that today a directive which is about to be transposed in all the member states is an essential instrument in the fight against trafficking in human beings gives us a measure of how much a strong european approach can achieve in this disturbing and still widespread phenomenon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to point out that the notice on the screens indicated that the vote was to begin at 12.10 p.m. but that it was at 12.09 p.m., also because these clocks are two minutes ahead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a risk-sharing instrument must be a real help to the member states most affected by the economic and financial crisis. the european union must do more, support the serious difficulties faced by the states in implementing projects such as those for the production of infrastructure. it is therefore necessary to ensure that projects co-financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund continue to be implemented. we must do so because these are strategic projects, and i am referring in particular to projects which can generate net revenue, such as the construction of motorways, which can therefore help the countries concerned to recover economically and productively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal is timely in that it aims to amend the provisions on risk-sharing instruments for member states which are likely to experience serious difficulties as a result of financial instability. it is particularly timely at a time of serious economic crisis, when countries such as ireland, portugal, hungary, romania, latvia and above all greece see in this amendment to the regulation on sharing instruments an alternative to the risk of losing the funds already allocated and the possibility of continuing the programmes co-financed by the regional development fund and the cohesion fund which are having difficulties in implementation in these member states. all this translates into the implementation of projects and the preservation of jobs in the european union network, which has been hit hardest by the economic crisis, without affecting the budget of the european union in any way, but making a substantial contribution to the growth of this continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this very important amendment to the regulations takes account of the interests of those countries which are in a more difficult situation than others and which are, in particular, subject to a financial assistance programme. we supported this amendment to the regulation because we felt it was important for the european union to guarantee its presence in times of national difficulties and, above all, to guarantee that, in a time of financial crisis, important resources of the union would not be lost, because this amendment to the regulation has the effect of allowing countries which have difficulty spending resources to be able to invest them profitably. the amendment subsequently made to the commission proposal is particularly important, since it allows the net contributors to have no fears, since this operation will remain neutral in relation to the budget of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the third amendment to regulation no 1083/2006 which the european commission has recently presented contains provisions to create a european risk-sharing instrument. the aim is to overcome the difficulties encountered by some member states in obtaining the private financing needed to implement investment projects which can only be partly financed by the use of public funds. although there is still a long way to go to overcome the economic crisis, i believe that the work done to reach a compromise text that has set a ceiling on the funds available for the financial instrument and has better defined the risk-sharing instruments has been fruitful.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciated the hübner report, which is a useful tool in preventing the disengagement of basic resources for countries in crisis. this is a regulation of fundamental importance which will make it possible, without any intervention on the budget of the european union, to provide an alternative to the risk of losing funds already allocated under cohesion policy to member states concerned by a financial assistance programme which have difficulties in co-financing. i particularly agree with the precise definition of the ceiling of the instrument and the political choice to give priority to projects which have generated revenue and projects which could contribute to the achievement of the member state's strategic objectives, in order to promote the economic recovery of the state concerned. i believe that this measure helps to balance the need for investment in development and growth with the all too celebrated recipe of austerity as a solution to the evil of sovereign debts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the unprecedented global financial crisis and economic recession have seriously damaged growth and financial stability and caused a serious deterioration in the financial, economic and social conditions of many member states. to alleviate these problems and to speed up the implementation of operational programmes and projects, as well as to support economic recovery, i believe it appropriate that the managing authorities of the member states which have benefited from financial support from one of the financial assistance mechanisms provided for, should be able to devote part of the resources of operational programmes to the creation of risk-sharing instruments capable of granting loans or guarantees for projects and operations covered by an operational programme. we must strengthen the synergies between the loan programmes and the union funds in the member states receiving assistance from the union or the international monetary fund. the creation of a risk-sharing instrument is therefore necessary, as it would provide additional financial resources for the implementation of infrastructure and productive investment projects without changing the overall cohesion policy allocation for the period 2007-2013.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the terrorist attacks of 11 september 2001, the united states adopted legislation requiring air carriers operating flights to, from or through its territory to provide the us authorities with the pnr booking code data contained in their automated systems. a similar initiative was taken by australia and canada. if the text that comes to the vote this morning is far from perfect, the biggest concern in my view is the data retention times as proposed in the last agreement of 2011. the 2004 agreement provided that pnr data would be destroyed after three and a half years if not used. the 2007 agreement extended the retention period to a total of 15 years. the current draft agreement of 2011, however, despite the masking of data after six months, provides for the storage of pnr data for an indefinite period, even if access to the data is progressively restricted. respect for the right to privacy of our european citizens raises the question how does this decision fit in?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps there was a miscommunication, but i asked to speak on the explanation of vote. in the last decade we have seen a series of dramatic events that we know of, which have led to a consequent increase in controls and restrictions on air travel. in parallel, the european union, the usa, canada and australia have signed a number of international agreements on the processing and storage of passenger data. parliament expressed its willingness to review these agreements as early as may 2010, when it decided to reject the outcome of the negotiations between the countries involved. i am aware that the committee responsible in this house has found this agreement unsuitable, but i think it is more useful to maintain this new agreement than to refer to the existing legislation. since it is not possible to start new negotiations, it would be more appropriate to adopt these new measures and improve the previous framework in terms of data protection and respect for individual rights. the rejection of these new findings would deprive europe of a minimum of discipline in this area, as well as an effective instrument in the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the agreement which responds to the need to strengthen transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism after the attacks of 11 september. i do not share the hardline position of the rapporteur who, despite the positive opinion of the legal service of the committee and the working party on data protection, has continued to argue that the agreement is useless and disproportionate. while i am aware of the limits and perfectibility of the agreement, i believe that the conditions for data protection have improved considerably. the agreement obliges the us authorities to share the data analyses with the judicial authorities of the european union, clarifying in detail the permitted uses, namely the fight against terrorism and transnational crime. i therefore believe that it would be useless and harmful to start new negotiations, with the risk that a possible rejection of the agreement would deprive europe of a minimum of discipline in this area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with this report, which is an important signal from parliament on the subject of simplification and harmonization in the field of corporate taxation. the existence of 27 different corporate income tax rules entails, in addition to high costs and administrative burdens for companies operating in several countries, serious risks of tax evasion and discrimination. this is essential to reduce the costs of companies operating in several states and to promote growth and economic recovery within the internal market. finally, the optional nature of the measure, which leaves the choice to undertakings to assess the benefits and costs when choosing the new system, neutralizes the backlog of some member states which see their sovereignty in tax matters or revenue threatened. i hope therefore that the council will be able to reach an agreement without recourse to enhanced cooperation, in the interests of citizens and businesses and not solely on the basis of calculations of national selfishness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are still a long way from the completion of the single market, and in particular 27 different rules on corporate taxation pose three main obstacles: high administrative costs and burdens for companies operating in several countries, an increased possibility of tax evasion, as well as of double taxation and tax discrimination, an incentive to business policies of 'regulatory shopping', with potential economic distortions and, in connection with this phenomenon, an incentive to national policies of gradual shifting of taxation from mobile to less mobile bases, with clear socioeconomic distortions. the harmonization of the methods of calculating taxable profits so that companies in the 27 member states are subject to the same rules, regardless of the member state in which they are taxed, is therefore a necessary measure. that is why i voted in favour of the text, despite the retreats of some member states who see their sovereignty in tax matters threatened.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i strongly supported this report by mr lulling because it was intended to respond to a proposal from the european commission which was certainly not in keeping with the period of great difficulty that our european continent and all european countries are experiencing. i believe that the amendments tabled by this parliament are in line with the present situation. i would like to stress the importance of the vote we have taken in favour of agriculture in order to maintain the tax exemption for fuel for agriculture, but i would particularly like to stress how important this parliament's vote was for continuing with the distinction between commercial and non-commercial diesel, which will of course also be a tax advantage for road hauliers in the areas furthest from the centre of europe, who will thus be able to have a reduction in the tax burden in the transport of their goods, to the benefit of a free and competitive market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and its member states have always been promoters of sustainable development and the protection of both the environment and human health. the signing of the kyoto protocol and the europe 2020 strategy are among the most important challenges the union has faced. taxation of co2 emissions is a cost-effective way for member states to achieve greenhouse gas reductions within the parameters of decision no 406/2009/ec of the european parliament and of the council. i support the proposal put forward by mr lulling on the need to ensure the optimal functioning of the market, particularly in the context of the new requirements relating to the fight against climate change, the use of renewable energy sources and energy saving. we must ensure that energy sources are treated in the same way so that consumers are treated fairly, regardless of the source used.
in writing. - i am in favour of the voluntary agreement between the eu and the central african republic on the application of forestry legislation, because i believe it can bring concrete help to the development of the african country by supporting a very important economic sector such as forestry, which accounts for 4% of gdp and 40% of its export earnings; in addition, 60% of central african timber is exported to europe. i support the aims of the agreement, as do those of the agreement with the republic of liberia, and i believe that it can bring benefits to all parties involved. the eu, for example, will be able to count on the commitment of the central african republic to market only legally certified wood products in the union.
in writing. - the fight against illegal logging, the establishment of a control and traceability system, the strengthening of the commercial possibilities of imported wood and its derivatives into europe and the improvement of regulation and enforcement in the forestry sector are just some of the valuable objectives that this agreement seeks to achieve. considering that it was concluded taking into account the interests of all parties, and that the central african republic has already declared its readiness to implement each of the commitments set out in the agreement, my vote was in favour.
in writing. - i agree with parliament's position on the eu-central african republic partnership agreement. support for this initiative will not only be a means of bringing about a positive development in the forestry plan, but will also undoubtedly improve the overall development situation in the central african republic. the export of timber is a growing trade in this country which, being in closer contact with the union, will only benefit from it, also taking advantage of an increase in exports not only at european but also at international level. the task of enforcing the legislation, however accepted and supported, is the most difficult, especially as regards the legality of the timber market, so european support is of fundamental importance.
in writing. - it is estimated that a forest the size of a football pitch is destroyed every two seconds worldwide, causing damage worth €12 billion a year. in a report published in march, the world bank said that illegal logging in some countries accounts for as much as 90 percent of deforestation activity and generates between $10 billion and $15 billion a year in illegal revenue. on a large scale, illegal logging operations are often linked to high-level corruption and organized crime networks. the agreements approved today are an important step forward in promoting sustainable timber trade, but also in raising public awareness of the issue. i am confident that the proceeds from the sale of liberian timber will no longer be used to finance bloodshed. we must also ensure that the rights and concerns of indigenous peoples are fully taken into account by the authorities of the central african republic.
in writing. - i believe that the signing of the trade agreement with the central african republic is essential, because it is an excellent starting point for tackling the serious problem of illegal logging, while at the same time strengthening the trade opportunities for central african wood products imported into europe. this agreement will contribute positively to the overall development and growth of the central african republic, including by safeguarding the revenues generated from timber exports to the european union.
in writing. - as for the similar measure concerning liberia, my vote on this agreement is in favour. i remain, however, doubtful as to the practical possibility of its implementation by the central african republic. it is the responsibility of the european commission to ensure that the forestry heritage of this country does not suffer irreversible damage and that a limit is put to illegal logging, a real scourge afflicting the entire african continent. in any case, my vote in favour is intended to be a vote of confidence in the two contracting parties. i very much hope that flegt measures will prove effective and useful in preserving nature and creating development in certain areas of the planet.
in writing. − in addition to being a partnership tool to improve forest management standards, sustainability and accountability, the voluntary partnership agreement can make a positive contribution to the overall development and growth of the central african republic. this is also done by safeguarding the revenues generated from the export of timber to the european union and other international markets. in the future, the economy and local communities in the central african republic should also benefit more from the tax revenues from industrial exploitation of forests. following this vote, the car will make greater efforts to define a legislative framework and systems for traceability, legal verification and authorisation of timber and timber products for export to the eu market, as well as to determine control and audit activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement which allows the eu to carry out more controls on timber from the central african republic and has the clear objective of putting a stop to illegal logging. i hope that this agreement, which concerns only exports of wood to the european union, will also be extended to exports to other countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of a partnership agreement between the eu and the republic of liberia on the forestry sector, as i believe that this agreement has very positive objectives concerning a particularly sensitive sector for the republic of liberia, as timber revenues were used to fuel the conflict during the country's civil war, which ended in 2003. the republic of liberia has undertaken to ensure that all timber products exported from the country are legally produced. i hope that the commission will ensure that the liberian government actually complies with the agreement, and i support the contents of the agreement itself: combating illegal logging, improving forestry regulation and enforcement, developing traceability systems and monitoring activities.
in writing. - the republic of liberia is rapidly moving away from the less happy pages of its history, thanks in particular to a series of tax and business law reforms. although remaining among the least prosperous countries in sub-saharan africa, liberia has nevertheless shown significant improvements in its economy, growing at an average rate of around 6% per annum. in this context, flegt fpa can bring about particularly marked positive effects, because it invests in an important sector of the liberian economy, also in its social, institutional and political implications. from the point of view of building a more robust legal framework, a system of widespread opportunities (starting with the communities living in the production areas), and a greater integration of liberia into international markets, which is a guarantee of political stability, the agreement certainly constitutes an important and positive contribution. i can therefore only vote in favour of the proposed text.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this agreement and i am voting in favour of it. however, doubts remain about the real possibility of liberia being able to fulfil its commitment to europe. it will be the task and duty of the european commission to ensure that the forest heritage of this country is kept intact and that a limit is put to illegal logging, a real scourge afflicting the african continent. so my vote in favour is intended to be a vote of confidence in the two contracting parties. i very much hope that flegt measures, including this one, will be effective and helpful in preserving nature and creating development in certain areas of the world.
in writing. − forests cover about 45% of liberia's territory, and the country is home to over half of the remaining rainforests in west africa. the long civil war, which lasted from 1997 to 2003, deeply affected the forestry sector: the timber revenues were used to fuel the conflict, prompting the un security council to impose sanctions on liberian timber imports. in addition to providing a partnership instrument to enable liberia to halt illegal deforestation and forest degradation, which contribute to climate change, the voluntary partnership agreement should enhance market opportunities for timber products in europe and other international markets. in this way it will also be able to make a positive contribution to the general development and growth of liberia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-liberia agreement on forestry enforcement, governance and trade in timber and timber products because it is an important step forward in putting a stop to illegal logging. the agreement, in fact, in addition to offering guarantees on the quantities of timber imported, offers greater transparency, especially on the characteristics of production.
in writing. - i supported this proposal because it aims to make it possible to continue programmes co-financed by the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund, which are experiencing implementation difficulties in member states which are affected by financial assistance programmes and are facing liquidity problems as a result of the continuing economic and financial crisis. this proposal for the six eligible member states (greece, ireland, portugal, hungary, romania and latvia), although the situation of greatest urgency is currently manifesting itself in greece, will ensure the implementation of programmes financed by the structural funds and the cohesion fund on the one hand, and the maintenance of access to project financing on the other. the proposal contains provisions which would finally allow the creation of a risk-sharing instrument. the operation would cover, without any increase, the resources already allocated to the member state concerned at the beginning of the 2007-13 programming period under cohesion policy, thus without any additional impact on the community budget. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs danuta maria hübner, which amends the regulation on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund in the light of the global economic crisis. this amendment opens up the possibility for the countries of the union which have encountered serious difficulties to be able to use part of the financial resources of these funds to create instruments capable of ensuring a greater economic recovery. the member states which request it will have to provide adequate guarantees and present concrete investment projects, and the eib will be responsible for supervision, which will then ensure further management controls. this is an exceptional and temporary measure, which does not involve any increase in appropriations over those already provided for in cohesion policy and which will naturally come to an end once the crisis has been overcome.
in writing. − the report clearly sets out the reasons for this further amendment of council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 in the context of the situation created in some countries affected by eu or imf assistance. the european institutions must make every effort to decipher the developments in the crisis and to adopt rapidly effective measures to deal with the new situations; the commission has also taken the view that the measures proposed by the member states are not sufficient to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, especially if important stabilisation operations are jeopardised by changes in the general framework and, above all, by the subsequent unavailability of private financing necessary for investment in the recovery. failure to take appropriate action risks undermining the whole recovery strategy and means failing to fulfil our moral obligations towards the citizens of the member states who are suffering the negative social consequences of the stabilization measures, which are being adopted in the form of structural reforms imposed with a sense of extreme urgency, without adequate political and cultural mediation processes. this further change in the risk-sharing instruments framework is therefore an expression of vitality and of timely and effective policy action, and prudent in the nature and purpose of the measures envisaged. i am in favour of the report.
in writing. the report aims to help member states that are most affected by the financial crisis and unable to secure the private financing needed to complete revenue-generating infrastructure. the private partners are unable to invest because of liquidity problems and difficulties in accessing loans, so part of the financial allocations of the individual member states is transferred to the commission to create a fund to cover risks linked to loans. this means that, in order to allow the completion of works under construction, some states are in fact depriving themselves of part of their appropriations. for our part, despite the support for the instrument, we would have preferred some kind of structural intervention to address the endemic liquidity shortage in a large number of member states in order to ensure an improvement in expenditure performance, thus avoiding having to resort to drastic measures that could lead to a reduction in resources. in this connection, we are convinced that these difficulties can be overcome by introducing a derogation from the stability and growth pact to allow national co-financing of projects deemed particularly relevant to economic recovery and job creation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr hubner because i believe that, in a time of crisis such as the one we are going through, the establishment of a risk-sharing instrument at european level is a necessary initiative. the definition of this instrument involves the definition of specific rules and criteria to be met in order to access the risk-sharing fund, rules identified in close cooperation with the european investment bank. the ability of each member state to participate in this instrument, which is activated at european level, is also regulated. there is no doubt that this initiative, which is being taken at a historic time of economic and social crisis, will strengthen the role and significance of parliament, both at the democratic level and, above all, by restoring its role as guarantor of solidarity between member states, which is essential to overcome the financial crisis we are experiencing.
in writing. − in the member states most affected by the economic and financial crisis, several strategic projects selected for co-financing under cohesion policy programmes risk not being implemented because private sector investors and banks do not have the liquidity to lend to projects and project promoters, or because they are no longer willing to bear the investment risks in the current environment. the risk-sharing instrument therefore constitutes an exception to the normal framework of implementation and aims to cover part of the risks associated with lending to banks or project promoters in member states experiencing or threatened with severe difficulties with respect to their financial stability. we welcome this proposal which aims to ensure that programmes co-financed by the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund continue to be implemented. however, we consider that only projects for which the eib or other similar institutions have adopted a positive financing decision and those generating revenue and state aid projects already included in the operational programmes of the member states concerned are eligible for funding under the risk-sharing instrument.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment. these are the countries of the union which are affected by financial assistance programmes because of the economic crisis and it is for these countries that the commission has put forward the proposal, which was approved by parliament thanks also to my vote, which outlines the 'risk-sharing instruments' for carrying forward the implementation of programmes financed by the structural funds and the cohesion fund for the period 2007 to 2013. the text provides for the possibility of transferring funds allocated to the member state to the commission for direct management so that agreements can be concluded with financial institutions (eibs) guaranteeing resources for the protection of investments without additional costs. this will limit the risk of losing the funds already allocated to member states in difficulty for cohesion policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i consider the creation of such a financial instrument to be a priority. i believe that a commitment is needed to deal with the serious difficulties encountered by some member states in obtaining the private finance needed to implement investment projects in infrastructure and production, which can only be partly financed by public funds. it should be noted that the proposed measure is an exception to the normal framework for the implementation of cohesion policy and is justified solely in the light of the exceptional circumstances imposed by the current crisis. the aim of the fund remains to cover part of the risks associated with lending to banks or project promoters in the member states.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has affected many eu countries, with some particularly hard hit. i voted in favour of mr hübner's report and i fully support the guidelines of the text, which have as their primary objective to help and support countries in difficulty. these rules are of paramount importance in this time of crisis; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the construction of the railway network in the community. in this way the european union ensures its support to member states in difficulty, ensures that its aid is not lost and provides guarantees to member states which are net contributors.
in writing. − mr president, i am strongly against this agreement. first of all, i would like to underline that this agreement is misleading as it make people believe that it is difficult for law enforcement agencies to access passenger data. this is not true, and the usefulness of the creation of this huge database for security purposes is equal to zero. this agreement is the outcome of the us strategy based on fear of the terrorist threat. it must be made clear that, on this subject, the mismatch between public perception and the reality is extreme. the data, however, speak for themselves and they show a very sharp decrease in terrorist attacks in recent years in every region of the planet. for this reason, i believe that consent to the eu-usa agreement on the use and transfer of pnr would be the umpteenth effect of the global hysteria spread by governments, arms trade conglomerates and media. additionally, i am particularly concerned by many points left unsettled in the agreement, such as the need to prove the necessity and proportionality of mass data collections, their bulk transfer and compliance with data protection rules and judicial control.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the us-eu agreement on the use and transfer of passenger name records (pnr) to the us state department. the aim of these agreements is to facilitate the prevention and prosecution of terrorist offences, a phenomenon which has recently struck again, demonstrating that the crisis triggered by 11 september 2001 is by no means over. the data sharing with the us is therefore aimed at ensuring the safety of passengers. at the same time, the agreements guarantee european citizens the right to take legal action in the us in the event of data misuse and allow travellers to request the correction of data that is found to be incorrect. there is therefore no reason to oppose the conclusion of such agreements and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the agreements between the european union and the united states of america on the transfer of pnr data represent a significant improvement on those negotiated in 2007. they involve stricter rules to safeguard passengers' privacy and limit the transfer of data to the sole purpose of combating terrorism and serious international crime. although some of the concerns expressed by the rapporteur, mr in't veld, are shared, i consider her approach counterproductive: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner malmström said that the agreements in question were the best possible outcome and that if parliament did not approve them, it would not be possible to renegotiate them. the individual countries of the union would therefore be forced, given the importance of data transfer in the fight against terrorism, to conclude bilateral agreements with the united states, and being in a position of less contractual power, they would not be able to impose rules that are equally favourable to european citizens. that is why i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement despite some misgivings about the way in which the american authorities are conducting the negotiations; the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and in the past few months they have raised awareness of the issue in all the member states, once again highlighting the lack of a strong and unified position of the european institutions in certain areas. this agreement certainly improves on previous agreements, especially on some key points, and it constitutes an important basis for the security of the entire european union and its citizens. i hope that in time the european institutions will strengthen their role so that they can conduct this type of negotiation from a better position.
in writing. − pnr, as defined as the information relating to each passenger's air travel, has proved to be a very important tool in the fight against terrorism and serious crime at transnational level, and will be processed, under the agreement, only for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting such crimes. i also believe that european citizens will have the right to legal action in the united states in the event of misuse of data and will have the possibility of access and rectification of pnrs and that individual travellers can also access the information collected about them and ask for correction where there are errors, so i voted in favour.
in writing. - international terrorism has been the greatest challenge facing the western world in the last decade. the seriousness of the terrorist threat is well known to all and it is absolutely essential that we take all the necessary countermeasures to win a crucial battle for our future. in such a situation, it is crucial to create a network that allows the exchange and sharing of data between the most at risk: the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the transfer of reservation codes by air carriers operating flights between the eu and the united states is therefore a step forward. the agreement strengthens the western common front against terrorism and will help to combat the threat to international peace and security posed by terrorists.
in writing. − the european union and the united states face a number of common challenges in ensuring an effective fight against international terrorism. in order to achieve this, it is considered necessary to share certain information, such as the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) by air carriers operating flights between the eu and the usa. we have already called on an earlier occasion for greater protection of fundamental rights and for the utmost respect for the privacy of european citizens to be guaranteed, in accordance with the relevant eu data protection rules and provisions. we have repeatedly stressed the utmost importance of the criteria of necessity and proportionality, key principles without which the fight against terrorism and international crime cannot be effective. while recognising the limitations of the new draft agreement, in particular with regard to the broad purposes for which pnr data are used, retention periods and concerns about the subsequent transfer of data to third countries, we consider it appropriate to give our favourable opinion in order to strengthen transatlantic cooperation and the common fight against international terrorism in the interests of the security of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement on the processing and transfer of reservation code data by air carriers between the eu and the usa, as i consider this agreement to be an appropriate and necessary tool for preventing possible intercontinental terrorist activities and at the same time a more comprehensive tool for better protection of the rights of passengers travelling from europe to the usa. my vote in favour reflects my personal desire not to create an obstacle to cooperation between the united states and the european union, but to encourage cooperation between the parties in the spirit of the transatlantic partnership in order to safeguard our respective democratic societies and common values.
in writing. − protecting citizens and their security while keeping their privacy and rights intact is the aim of the european legislator. in order to improve existing legislation, agreements need to be amended and adapted as necessary, as in the present case. the eu-us pnr, an agreement on the transfer of reservation code and name record data of passengers on flights to the us, is the result of new security measures to combat terrorism. the transfer of passenger data is nothing more than an exchange of information for the protection of sensitive data and the control of passengers entering the united states. i think the text is particularly positive because it harmonizes existing legislation between the member states of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that we must work towards an agreement that strengthens the joint fight of the european union and the united states against international terrorism in the interests of the security of european citizens. the european union and the united states need to come together to address a number of common challenges and ensure an effective fight against international terrorism within the framework of a broader global agenda, through information sharing, in particular the transfer of booking codes by air carriers operating flights between the eu and the united states. i hope that the european parliament will maintain the same determination as it has shown so far in combating international terrorism and organised and transnational crime, considering them as fundamental elements of european external action, and in pursuing an appropriate prevention strategy.
in writing. − the fight against international terrorism is a challenge which sees the european union and the united states on the front line. close and continuous cooperation between these two political actors is needed to minimise any threat. the agreement reached in 2007 is a first step towards the final goal and now the agreement signed in november 2011 introduces important new features: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i voted in favour of the agreement because it will strengthen the fight against various criminal activities, help to apprehend those responsible for terrorist acts, strengthen the transatlantic partnership and guarantee the protection of passengers' privacy and personal data.
in writing. - i believe that the differences in the methods of calculating the tax base of the different european states involve enormous bureaucratic costs and represent one of the main remaining barriers to intra-eu trade. the establishment of a common method of calculating the taxable base (ccctb) would therefore lead to a reduction in these costs, with clear advantages for companies operating in different countries. the proposal contributes to simplifying bureaucracy and reducing the cost of tax compliance by defining a uniform approach to the calculation of the tax base and by adopting the concept of a 'one stop shop', whereby companies will be required to provide a single return. it also provides for the possibility of offsetting budgetary assets generated in one country against liabilities incurred in another, thus eliminating the phenomenon of double taxation. i believe that this directive can help to increase the growth of companies operating in more than one country, especially smes, for whom the costs of excessive bureaucracy are proportionately higher. the proposal therefore contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives and represents an opportunity to boost growth and jobs in the union. for these reasons i thought i should give my favourable opinion on the proposal.
in writing. - in a time of deep economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing, simplifying the tax system and reducing the tax and administrative burden on our companies is not only desirable but necessary. this legislative measure is intended to benefit both smes and large european companies by encouraging the former to expand in the medium term and by reducing the costs of setting up subsidiaries in other member states of the union for the latter. it also aims to stimulate foreign investment in europe, which is currently discouraged by the fact that the interaction of different national systems can cause double taxation or overtaxation. for these reasons, my vote will be in favour.
in writing. the introduction of a common corporate tax base, based on a fixed formula taking into account turnover, labour and fixed assets, is a step towards reducing red tape for companies operating in cross-border market conditions. the reality of this type of business is increasingly widespread and the harmonization of the tax system, at least as regards the tax base, is indicative of the desire to move towards a tax regime as clear as possible for operators in the sector. the report also provides that each member state may continue to apply its own rate of taxation to the part of the tax base for which it is responsible. the tax harmonization sought will concern the calculation and apportionment of the taxable amount. this is to ensure that individual member states can continue to retain their autonomy in taxation systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which seeks to introduce a common consolidated corporate tax base at european level. the aim is not to harmonize the tax rates of the various member states, which will retain the greatest degree of autonomy in this field: the aim of this proposal is to establish common rules for the calculation and allocation of the taxable amount of corporation tax for companies operating in the european union. this entirely optional formula can help companies operating within several european states, or those which would be interested in doing so by expanding their activities; this can be particularly true for small and mediumsized enterprises, which have to deal with different legislation and different bureaucratic and administrative systems. after a first experimental phase, it will then be seen whether this new formulation has been of any use to our companies, in order to be able to exploit to the full the potential of having a single european market, which too often remains unexpressed.
in writing. - currently in europe, a company that decides to invest outside its home member state has to take into account the tax regime of the country in which it opens up its activity, facing enormous difficulties due to too many differences. the aim is to integrate and promote the european single market, facilitating the movement and investment of small businesses throughout the union. that is why i find the report by mrs thyssen very interesting, which aims to establish a european tax system for a common consolidated corporate tax base. the proposal for a council directive also lays down the rules which the companies concerned will have to respect for the calculation of their contributions, rules of a single european tax system.
in writing. - the report by mrs marianne thyssen on the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) was voted on today in plenary in strasbourg. the differences between the tax systems of the eu countries are sometimes enormous and often difficult to interact with, so that it can be complicated and costly for a company to expand its business in the single market; the ccctb scheme would instead give companies the possibility to calculate their taxable income according to a single set of rules, instead of having to comply with different tax rules in each member state in which they operate, and would also make it easier to have and maintain subsidiaries in different states by reducing the bureaucratic burden for the same companies. the planned plan envisages the binding of the ccctb at the end of a transitional period; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax base is not used to finance the production of goods and services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i consider it essential to define common rules for the calculation of the taxable amount of corporation tax for companies operating in the european union. i am convinced that the common consolidated corporate tax base is an indispensable instrument for the completion of the european internal market and for the european economic integration necessary for the stability of the euro area. the current crisis should not be an obstacle but a catalyst for the introduction of this element.
in writing. - i believe that a process of simplification and harmonisation of the tax rate in the various member states is necessary. the fact that there are 27 different regulations has many disadvantages: high administrative costs and burdens, socioeconomic distortions, risks of discrimination and, finally, increased opportunities for tax evasion. that is why, despite the retreats of some member states which see their sovereignty in tax matters threatened, i voted in favour of the report on the common consolidated tax base for mr thyssen's tax. i am firmly convinced that in order to complete the project of a single market it is necessary that all member states comply with the same legislation.
in writing. − the harmonisation of the methods of calculating taxable profits of companies within the 27 member states is a measure desired by the european business system. by reducing costs and administrative burdens, the growth potential of enterprises operating across borders will be strengthened and access to the internal market will be facilitated for smes and enterprises that currently operate only on national markets. tax transparency will also be improved, with less scope for fraud and evasion and reduction of double taxation and tax discrimination.
in writing. - the european union has a responsibility to promote responsible and sustainable energy policies, and i have therefore decided to express my favourable opinion on the report on the taxation of energy products, which prescribes a series of measures to promote energy efficiency and reduce co2 emissions. i also believe that the amendments adopted by parliament have brought about a considerable improvement in the commission's proposal, and i particularly stress the importance of abolishing the article which would have required member states, in order to ensure tax neutrality, to standardize the rates of energy sources used for the same purpose. this amendment allows the states to maintain differentiated levels of taxation on diesel and petrol. the increase in excise duties on diesel fuel would have led to a loss of competitiveness in the european automobile industry, which has traditionally been stronger in the production of diesel engines, and to a clear drop in employment. the greater energy efficiency of diesel engines is also scientifically proven, and for these reasons it is necessary to be able to maintain a favourable tax regime for diesel. for these reasons i voted in favour of the amendment to the commission proposal which abolishes the principle of fiscal neutrality and i gave a favourable opinion on the report.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mrs lulling on a proposal for a reform of the taxation system for energy products. i think it is essential that amendment no 7 be adopted, which maintains the tax exemption for fuel for the agricultural sector. this vote therefore constitutes a strong signal of defence against the agricultural sector, which is rightly concerned about the consequences that would have been caused by an increase in the price of agricultural fuel in a period such as the present one. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in bananas is particularly important in view of the ongoing negotiations on the reform of the cap for the period 2014-2020, which will be launched in the coming months with the presentation of the european parliament's proposals.
in writing. the rapporteur, while acknowledging the commission's contribution to the implementation of the european strategy, rightly points out the implications for industrial and transport policy. the road freight transport sector would face serious challenges with the increase in the price of diesel as a consequence of the co2 emissions reduction target in the sector. the environmental sustainability of road transport is already guaranteed by strict legislation in force and companies in the sector are already required to pay for emissions in accordance with precise community and international obligations. the principle of 'proportionality' between the various minimum tax thresholds set at union level needs to be seriously reviewed in order to avoid an indexed increase in the price of diesel and to avoid the consequences for competition and inflation. the excise duty on fuel, expressed as a percentage, should not automatically follow the price increase, as is the case in italy, where fuel is among the most expensive in europe (€1738.19 per 1000 litres of diesel, compared with the european average of €1,521.4). this mechanism must be stopped if the member states do not want to lose control over whether or not decisions are taken in tax matters. tax automation is a hellish device to be avoided
in writing. - although a legislative consultation procedure, the revision of the directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity has proved to be an extremely sensitive subject. the debate in the commission on economic and monetary problems has brought to light important critical points. the main point of contention was the concept of 'fiscal proportionality' inserted into the text of the directive by the european commission. the tax provides for the same mandatory minimum rate of taxation on energy products in all member states, which in turn will tax the various products proportionally, depending on the energy value and the co2 emission coefficient. the imposition of rates in the same proportion for all products would, however, reduce national sovereignty to a minimum, limiting the area of manoeuvre of the states with negative consequences in the energy sector in which each country is specialised, inflation risk, damage to businesses and consumers. fortunately, the epp succeeded in suppressing the 'proportionality' principle by introducing a specific amendment, thanks also to my vote, during the vote in plenary. the ball now goes to the council, which will have to take account of parliament's position.
in writing. - the report by mr lulling was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. the proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation in order to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient and to avoid problems in the internal market. the proposal aims to bring the latter in line with the eu's commitments to combat climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i consider it to be an important contribution to the europe 2020 strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. i think the commission's methodological approach to taxing energy on a double basis, that of co2 emissions and that of energy content, is correct. the energy taxes will be partly linked to co2 emissions and partly to energy content. the energy tax structure will thus be designed to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient. the proposal also aims to bring energy taxation into line with the eu's commitments to combat climate change by introducing a co2-related element in energy taxation.
in writing. - in view of the current economic crisis, the european parliament should send a strong signal by voting against the report on the taxation of energy products and electricity which envisages an increase in minimum excise duties in europe for all energy sources. this proposal is an environmental contradiction, since it favours renewable energy sources over 'clean' gases such as methane and biomethane. if the price of energy were to rise, what sad fate would befall small and mediumsized industries, the real engine of the economy? in italy, where the cost of energy is higher than the european average, a further increase in prices would be detrimental to our businesses. the national governments are already thinking of raising excise duties, and there is no need for europe to raise those within its competence which are then used as the basis for calculating national excise duties. the idea of raising the cost of energy by about 80% by 2023 by taxes alone is an unsustainable burden on citizens. finally, the continuing increase in diesel fuel for motor vehicles should not be underestimated and the new taxation would therefore place an even greater burden on european taxpayers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr lulling's report on the taxation of energy products and electricity because i fully share its key principles, namely to achieve an alignment of energy taxation provisions with the environmental objectives set within the europe 2020 strategy and to reduce distortions in the internal market between the member states of the union. the community framework for the taxation of energy products must be as consistent as possible with the union's environmental policies. there is no agreement between the political groups on proportionality. i have supported amendment no 53 in particular, which seeks to remove the principle of proportionality from the text of the proposal, mainly for pragmatic reasons. we cannot allow further increases in diesel prices at a time when, for fiscal reasons due to austerity measures, the prices of energy products are under constant pressure. in addition, diesel is heavily used for professional purposes and it is clear that road transport would suffer significant negative effects from regulated increases in minimum rates. finally, the european citizens would not understand such a choice.
in writing. - the proposal to amend directive 2003/96/ec which we put to the vote this morning was tabled by the commission on 13 april. the purpose of this legislation is to align energy taxation provisions with the environmental objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy and to reduce distortions in the internal market in relation to the current difference between eu member states in energy taxation levels and scope. these objectives are essentially achieved by dividing the current taxation of energy products into two components: a carbon tax component, based on the level of emissions, which would have the specific objective of reducing co2 emissions not captured by the ets covering only 50% of co2 emissions (small installations, services, agriculture, transport, heating) and an energy tax component, based on energy content (fixed rates per gj regardless of the energy product). in voting this morning i wanted to remove the obligation for member states to reproduce a fixed ratio between the minimum levels of taxation applied to the different energy products ('chained excise duties' or 'proportionate excise duties') which would have led not only to a sharp increase in the prices of certain energy products but also to the gradual disappearance of certain industrial sectors.
in writing. the disproportionate size of the public debts of the countries of the union, further aggravated by the financial instability characterising this economic phase, makes the problem of tax evasion even more burdensome. increases in rates due to the inevitable austerity policies implemented by the member states may be ineffective unless accompanied by a strengthening of the instruments to combat tax evasion. it is also necessary to prevent measures taken by states in financial difficulties from resulting in a migration of firms to countries offering tax privileges. these forms of tax competition are among the most harmful and in the long run could lead to a disproportionate reduction in taxation on productive activities, offset by an increase in taxation on employed labour, which is less mobile by nature. i have therefore decided to express my support for the resolution of parliament which identifies concrete methods of combating tax evasion. among these, i would particularly stress the need to abolish banking secrecy, to increase controls to prevent the transfer of resources to so-called tax havens, and to define new instruments to combat the evasion of value added tax. finally, i would stress the important role played by the ccctb system in the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. − the resolution stresses the link between decisive measures to boost growth and the definition of a clear and unified community strategy to halve tax evasion by 2020. the lack of revenue from the shadow economy has a perverse effect on the european economic system and negatively affects levels of investment for growth and employment. by recovering this revenue shortfall (20% of public expenditure and even 105.8% of total health expenditure), governments could zero out public debt within 8 or 9 years. at the same time, they could increase public investment, contributing to the achievement of the eu 2020 strategy objectives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the fight against tax evasion must become a top priority for the eu; so far, much has been said, but too little has been done. it is time to act decisively. paying taxes is a basic civic duty and a matter of social justice, capable of generating the resources needed to emerge from the crisis and to revive the real economy, without burdening workers and the most vulnerable once again.
in writing. − the fight against tax fraud and evasion must be an objective to be pursued vigorously at european level as well: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. there is one point in the report which puzzles me and for which i have therefore decided to abstain on the final vote: i believe that member states should retain the possibility of concluding agreements with third countries if such negotiations can bring benefits in terms of recovering illegally exported money. it would be desirable, however, to prevent these problems in advance, making it more difficult to resort to tax havens or to complacent states, where it is extremely difficult to investigate the nature and origin of money. the phenomena of tax fraud and tax evasion are common to all the countries of the union and therefore coordinated action can certainly be useful, without this however being a renunciation of fiscal sovereignty and a limitation of the action of the member states. if wrongs have been committed, they have been committed against the citizens of each country, and each country is therefore entitled to act in its own interests and in the way it deems most appropriate.
in writing. - i wholeheartedly support this request, especially in view of the difficult historical period we are going through. the problems of tax fraud and tax evasion must be kept under the strictest control, given the risks we face as a union, but also as individual states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this type of crime.
in writing. − today, by adopting this motion for a resolution on the call for concrete measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, in the light of the conclusions of the european council of 1 and 2 march 2012 and in the light of the oecd study of march 2012, parliament calls on the member states to review their tax systems and make them more efficient, by removing unjustified exemptions and broadening the tax base. i also believe, as the report stresses, that member states need to focus on tax collection and the fight against tax evasion, and to ensure that there is mutual cooperation between tax authorities and that the latter have the necessary resources to tackle and combat fraud.
in writing. - a proper fight against tax evasion is an essential element for a fair and modern tax reform, adapted to crisis situations such as the present one, where a reduction in the tax burden on households can have a profound impact on a decisive recovery in consumption, on employment, and on a decisive recovery of the economy. i believe that effective action against fraud is of paramount importance in order to raise the resources needed to increase public investment to reinvigorate europe's international competitiveness and growth potential. in italy, the new government has introduced a number of anti-fraud measures which are producing satisfactory results. i welcome the mandate given to the council and the commission, because i repeat that vigorous action at european and national level is necessary and must be taken.
the agenda includes the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on eu accession to the echr.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, article 6 must be implemented, and it must be implemented soon, because it is a legal obligation imposed on us. the committee i have the honour of chairing has worked swiftly - i thank mr guerrero salom and i thank the colleagues who have worked - a contact group has also been set up between the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and the european parliament, and i believe that this contact will have to be resumed again, and the invitation to the minister and the commissioner is now to speed up the timing and to conclude. i do not hide the problems, which are not structural, we have already solved all the structural problems, it can be said, there are certainly problems of a substantial and procedural nature, but they cannot be solved except through practice, once the union has acceded to the convention. from the substantive point of view, there is a particular phenomenon. as far as i know, this is the only case in the world where a declaration, a legally binding human rights instrument, is embedded in a territorial context in which there is another legal instrument, namely the council of europe convention, within which is the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this raises a number of problems, of course, and also procedural ones, because who will have the last word? that's the big problem, but we can't solve it now. in the meantime, we believe, the solution will come out of the case law, probably by exploiting the principle that the european court of human rights requires, before being brought by the parties concerned, that all other means of appeal have been implemented. in this sense the european court of human rights could be the last instance, even after the court of justice. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i agree with what mr jo leinen has said, i am not opposed to it. i think that my committee should take this request into account, since we have the power to do so and to propose it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i join in thanking the commission and the council presidency, but this debate is timely and important, especially because we are faced with two unacceptable violations of the letter and spirit of the lisbon treaty. the violation of the letter, as has already been mentioned by many speakers, concerns the boycott of the european union's accession to the european convention for the protection of human rights, which is clearly established by the treaty of lisbon and which is an essential complement to the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights. the breach of the spirit of the treaty concerns the proposal currently under discussion in brighton to amend the convention by unacceptably reducing the possibilities for citizens to appeal. these are truly paradoxical proposals, not only because protocol 14 has already significantly reformed the court's procedures, but also because, more generally, solving the problem of too many pending cases by reducing the possibilities of appeal is like fighting an epidemic by closing the doors of hospitals. the problem is not too many appeals, the problem is too many violations of rights in europe and this is what governments should be concerned about. the european parliament is therefore very concerned and very vigilant and considers it absolutely important to react in order to prevent this kind of reforms being discussed in brighton.
i would like to speak, but there are more than 20 people who have asked to speak on the catch the eye. however, i would now like to give the floor to commissioner kallas.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, this was certainly a very interesting discussion of the issue of accession to the european convention on human rights. i remember that this was a topical issue 15 years ago in my own country, where the european convention on human rights was already regarded very positively as a means of improving the judiciary and the legal system. by acceding to the european convention on human rights, the european union will integrate itself into a pan-european legal space of fundamental rights protection. it will enhance its credibility by entering into a commitment under international public law to respect fundamental rights. the eu will submit itself to external judicial control. so accession also means that the eu reaffirms the pivotal role played by the convention system in the protection of human rights in europe. much has already been done on the way to accession. but some important steps still remain. negotiations with the 20 non-eu states of the council of europe must be completed. once a final text has been agreed, the commission will submit the draft agreement to the court of justice for an opinion on its compatibility with the treaties. after a positive opinion, the council will have to adopt – by unanimity – decisions on the signature and conclusion of the agreement. the latter decision requires the consent of the european parliament and will only enter into force if member states approve. regarding international law, the accession agreement has to be ratified by the 47 current state parties to the european convention of human rights and approved by the union. the eu legislature will also have to adopt internal legal rules to properly implement accession internally. i am absolutely confident that the parties involved are fully aware that the governments and parliaments of all member states made a promise to citizens, and gave a strong signal to the outside world, when they committed the union to accede to the convention. i can also add that the commission agrees that it is necessary to work intensely on the internal rules from now on. solutions must be workable in practice and respect the institutional order of the union as defined by the treaties.
president of the council. - madam president, thank you very much for the opportunity to attend and participate in the debate today. it is, after all, safe to say that this has been a very energetic debate, which has been widely circulated and has, among other things, provided interesting insights into british domestic policy. i'm sure it's a good impression, which i'll take back with me. i would like to try to draw a few main points from the debate which i will take back to the council. it must necessarily be this: as i have said, i have noted that the european parliament is very keen on the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights. the debate today has clearly and unequivocally confirmed this. it is a general position which i, of course, as president-in-office of the council, fully understand and we have taken note of your concerns and your views on the part of the council. i would also like to stress that i of course share the view that we are obliged to get eu accession in place and that it must happen as soon as possible. we therefore look forward to the political discussions at the council meeting next week. on the basis of these discussions, we hope that it will be possible to resume negotiations with the other council of europe countries in strasbourg in the near future. i would like to reiterate, however, that under the danish presidency we will continue to work to ensure progress in the negotiations on the draft agreement and, of course, we will do our utmost in this respect to reach a common eu position on the text. we will of course do our utmost to ensure that this text also meets the expectations of the european parliament.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: - the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on biometric passports, by carlos coelho, simon busuttil, on behalf of the ppe group, ioan enciu, henri weber, on behalf of the s&d group, cornelia ernst, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, franziska keller, tatjana ždanoka, on behalf of the green group (o-000052/2012 - b7-0107/2012), - the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on biometric passports, by baroness sarah ludford, sophia in 't veld, renate weber, alexander alvaro, nadja hirsch, louis michel, on behalf of the alde group (o-000065/2012 - b7-0108/2012), and- the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on biometric passports, by timothy kirkhope, on behalf of the ecr group (o-000100/2012 - b7-0112/2012).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner malmström, facilitating the free movement of people within and outside europe's borders has always been one of the european union's priorities, as has the ever-growing strengthening and guaranteeing of a secure european space. it is for these very reasons that the report by mrs coelho on the biometric passport was approved by parliament in 2009. under the principle of 'one person, one passport', children would also be entitled to have their own passport without having to be on their parents' passport. it would be a potentially safer system, but this one person, one passport principle seems to be ineffective, or at least not safe for children under 12, as it has been found that the fingerprints of children under six are not of a quality that would allow a unique verification of identity. considering that children are the most vulnerable to disappearance, human trafficking and even sexual abuse, the question is: what evaluation studies has the commission carried out in recent years to ensure that children are properly protected, especially when travelling alone?
president of the council. mr president, the danish minister for food is unfortunately unable to be present today, so i will therefore, on behalf of the danish minister for food and the presidency, reply to questions nos 70 and 71 on the delimitation of disadvantaged areas in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy. in its efforts to identify the precise implications of the application of eight biophysical criteria for the identification of lessfavoured areas, the commission has asked the member states to draw up maps of specific areas. these are areas which will be eligible for payments as less-favoured areas on the basis of simulations of the application of the criteria. i understand that the european parliament has asked for the detailed maps to be provided. unfortunately, this has not yet happened. the question of new criteria for the designation of less-favoured areas is now part of the reform of the common agricultural policy. despite this, there is still no public information on the consequences of applying the eight biophysical criteria. i agree with the authors that both parliament and the council should have access to the same basic information on the consequences of applying the biophysical criteria for the designation of eligible areas in areas with significant natural constraints on agriculture. as far as i am aware, all member states have now submitted preliminary information and maps to the commission on the consequences of applying the eight biophysical criteria. although these may be preliminary data and information, they provide useful knowledge of the consequences of applying the new criteria which may be relevant to both the council's and parliament's understanding of the issue. however, the council does not have access to this information and maps. the cards belong to the member states and can be made available to parliament and the council only after the member states have given their authorization to the commission for their release. the commission is not in a position to publish or redistribute this information without authorization. however, i understand that 12 member states have now agreed to allow the commission to explain the implications of applying the eight biophysical criteria for the designation of lessfavoured areas by these 12 member states. this will be done at the meeting of the european parliament's committee on agriculture on monday 23 april. despite this receptivity, i understand and share the questioners' astonishment at the lack of publicity and transparency in this area. therefore, at the last meeting of the special committee on agriculture on 16 april 2012, the presidency also encouraged several member states to reconsider their position and to grant this authorisation in order to ensure the greatest possible transparency in the process. i hope that more member states will then give the necessary authorization so that both parliament and the council can understand the implications of the proposed biophysical criteria. due to this situation, the council is unfortunately not in a position to comment further on the questions raised and i would therefore propose that further questions concerning the details of this case be addressed to the commission at the forthcoming meeting of the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development, which will take place on 23 april 2012, as mentioned.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not in fact, what is happening with the redrawing of the delimitation of disadvantaged areas is a bad joke, and i have the impression that this discussion tonight will not improve the point either. we have just heard from the council representative that the member states and the council are something completely different. that's news to me. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no, none of that is left in the commission's reform proposal. the commission is continuing on its course. but above all, we still do not know what this redistribution will entail. which areas are falling out and which areas are coming in. i don't want to be misunderstood. it may well be that there is a better demarcation than the one we have today. it is quite possible, if we consider that some member states are 100 per cent disadvantaged. but the point is to define the right areas, not to define as many as possible. i do not think that the eight criteria proposed will necessarily help to achieve this. but above all, it is absurd that parliament has not yet been informed of the simulation of these criteria. while the commission claims that it cannot draw up the maps because they are in the possession of the member states - this has just been confirmed to us - individual ministers are asking parliament to change the criteria. how are we supposed to do that if we don't know what's actually going to come out of it? the only thing missing from this whole game is that some member states or the commission should claim that parliament is insisting on the redistribution in this form. then the mess would be really perfect. i therefore urge you, as the representative of the council, to be transparent and to enable parliament to do its job properly in the interests of the council, the commission and, above all, the farmers themselves!
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very important one. the opacity and reticence in the transmission of this data to the representatives of the european citizens reveal an attitude of the member states and the council which are not yet aware of the democratic revolution enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament is a co-decision-maker on agricultural matters and we are preparing to reform the common agricultural policy together with the council and we cannot therefore accept any difference between the information held by the two institutions. we must be put in the same position as the council in order to be able to assess in good conscience the criteria proposed by the commission. the commission, i remind the council, does not give us the data because some member states have declared themselves against giving these data to parliament. we therefore call on the council to urge the member states to be as transparent and as cooperative as possible in the light of a new institutional reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to prevent desertification and preserve the richness of our territories, the commission has proposed in the new text it has presented to us that the member states should be able to provide greater support to farmers in areas with natural constraints by means of an additional allowance. this aid will be in addition to the aid already available under rural development policy. 5% of the budget is allocated to farmers with areas in less-favoured areas, with a premium of up to eur 300/hectare. the concern of farmers, however, is the definition of disadvantaged areas. the eight proposed biosphere criteria risk not allowing a reasonable and understandable delimitation and do not seem to be in the interest of either farmers or taxpayers. the proposed thresholds are too rigid and the results do not correspond to the desired objectives. i also believe that measures similar to those in article 68 to assist vulnerable sectors or regions should be maintained. in order to avoid distortions of competition, aid to assist vulnerable sectors should be limited. and here the reference is for example to the cultivation of monumental plants such as olive trees in southern italy, in puglia. it is estimated that the olive sector would lose 60% of its value compared with historical stocks as a result of the reform. the longevity of the monumental olive trees is of extreme importance, also from the ecological, economic and productive point of view for the region. ecological, because to keep these crops viable and productive means to intervene in the hydrogeological defense of eroded territories, economic and productive because this represents one of the largest revenues of the region: in puglia alone, there are 1200 olive presses working 53 varieties of olive oil of undeniable value and quality. finally, the commission is asked to include appropriate alternative thresholds in its proposal for the biosphere criteria and to provide for the possibility of using these criteria in a cumulative form, a sum of physical and geographical criteria together with other production criteria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives of the council, what we have heard today as your position seems to me to be a real insult to parliament. it is an insult to parliament because you do not consider us and do not put us on the same level as the other institutions whose task it is to legislate. we cannot accept - and i do not accept this as rapporteur for the reform of the common agricultural policy - that we have to decide and propose our position without knowing and without having the same information as you. the impact on the first pillar and on direct payments of the share for less-favoured areas will not be simulable in the absence of data, so i do not think that this parliament should and can give you an answer on the reform of the common agricultural policy if you do not give us the necessary data.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is no doubt that locally produced food is very popular. however, the share of these short chains in the total food market cannot be overestimated. this is still a very small proportion. the future of european agriculture and food distribution cannot be a general return to local market stalls and direct marketers. the common agricultural policy has in recent years sought to promote the aggregation of farmers in the form of producer organizations and thus to counter the concentration of the food retail trade. this necessarily entails longer supply chains. however, it is quite true that individual firms offer short chains and consumers want them. it is therefore all the more important to prevent the abuse of this will. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the agricultural products of the third world. but i also wonder whether it is sensible or possible to find european regulations here. the european panorama is very diverse in this respect and i think it is more sensible to leave this definition to the individual groups of offers, who then also communicate their rules. i would like to make one other point. the protection of designations of origin gives the european union a very clear system of geographical indications. if we were to try to introduce a new regional system of names in parallel, we would be creating a parallel system and thus further irritating the consumer. in fact, a new form of food pyramid thinking would emerge. we don't need that, either. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the blue card procedure. i didn't say i was against short chains. i have built up a short chain of this kind in my earlier career, which works excellently and is also very popular. i was merely saying that i do not believe that we need a european regulation for this. as for the bacon, i invite you to come to south tyrol and taste the one i think is better!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly sensitive to the question of the origin of products, because i believe that consumers should not be confused, and that is certainly important. let me put it this way: in italy we have a well-known food culture and we italians often spend our weekends wandering around the countryside to learn about the typical products. now, can you imagine how bad it would be for an italian to walk into an agriturismo and see goods being unloaded from a refrigerated truck with a brand known for its large distribution? now, let's assume that that merchandise was produced within a mile of the farmhouse. at this point, the unknowing consumer would leave confused and would never return to that farmhouse. the operator of the facility would be harmed, even if he believes in good faith that he did not make a mistake and no judicial authority would accept a complaint for food fraud, because no rules were broken. in a system such as the european one, there can be no kafkaesque situations such as the one i have just described, because i believe that regulation is right especially in a context of harmonization of the system. i therefore believe that, in order to protect consumers and small farmers and agricultural enterprises, a clear, precise and valid definition must be given throughout europe of what is meant by local production, especially when it comes to food, which is a subject that is particularly important to us also in terms of safety and it is not enough to apply the rules in force in other sectors by analogy. if i want to taste a local cheese, it is not enough that the last substantial processing is carried out locally - and for this we are also fighting in other sectors - but the animal from which the milk was obtained must have burned the grass of the surrounding meadows, so the milking must have taken place on site so as not to subject the animal to exhausting journeys and the production of the cheese must be carried out according to absolutely strict disciplines. that's what we want for our consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate seems to me to be rather kafkaesque, because we are here to discuss whether or not we should promote local production. it is clear that this is an indispensable value which europe can only promote and enhance. we can debate how, but the fact that we have to imagine a model for promoting local and traditional productions is, in my opinion, something that cannot be given up. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the use of the euro in the future. i am sure that the commission will be able to support the use of the euro in the future, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the use of the euro in the future. i think that this is an indispensable value which europe cannot fail to support if we do not want to transform our institution into one that thinks about alchemy, but which does not look at that precious value made up of good practices handed down from generation to generation, which is within reach and which is a basic fabric of our agricultural productivity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate takes place one year after another debate which had essentially the same characteristics. a year ago, just as this year, greece was under attack, but also in previous years, lampedusa was under attack. this was recently recalled by mr simon busuttil: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these migrants, economic migrants, come to italy, as they come to greece, as they come to malta, not to stay in these realities, they want to go to other states of europe. so the answer is more europe, the answer is more responsibility, more solidarity and enterprise. i suggest to the commissioner that there is an open negotiation on the funds which concern precisely this area of intervention for the 2014-2020 programming period, and that is where action must be taken, as they suggest to the council for greater enterprise. there is no doubt that there are some member states which are in a state of rebellion. we must overcome this turbulence, otherwise europe is going nowhere.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the proposal under discussion today fully implements the agreement reached by the budgetary authorities last december on the financing of the iter study and research project for the 2012 quota part. the iter project, which concerns the european union but also important countries such as japan, the united states and china, requires an additional commitment capacity of 650 million and therefore requires a revision of the expenditure ceilings for heading 1a in the financial perspective for the same amount. we are therefore giving the green light to this increase of 650 million for commitments. the agreement on which this important element of the 2012 budget is based was a crucial point in the negotiations on the european budget itself, and i would even say that it was a fundamental condition for the 2012 budget reconciliation to reach a positive solution and for the negotiations to be concluded and for us to be able in 2012 to increase substantially the funds for important programmes such as lifelong learning, such as cip, such as the seventh research programme, and above all to be able to finance iter using the transfer instrument as little and as little as possible. this is an important and positive element which has enabled us as a parliament to give our assent to this agreement. iter thus enters the 2012 budget without prejudice to the implementation of other programmes, without being placed in charge of other programmes and this is a very important element. with this agreement, with this proposal, the delicate issue of the implementation of the 2012 budget also comes into play, because then we concentrate all our attention on the negotiation for the conclusion of the budget estimate, but then there is the important step which is its implementation, which begins with this step and which will see us particularly engaged on the delicate issue of payments. i hope that in this implementation of the 2012 budget we can now rediscover the excellent climate of cooperation, especially between the commission and parliament, which was decisive in closing the budget and which will be even more important in supporting its implementation.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i welcome your report setting out the position of parliament on what was agreed, as the report reflects the political agreement that we reached on 1 december 2011 to provide additional iter financing of exactly eur 1.3 billion for 2012 and 2013. in addition to the eur 100 million already included in the 2012 budget, it is necessary to raise the ceiling of heading 1a and to reduce proportionately this year’s ceiling for heading 5. here, the agreement does not prejudge implementation or what should be done for 2013, because the other challenge we have to face in the negotiations over next year’s budget is how to find an additional eur 360 million without damaging any other projects in the areas of competitiveness and an innovative europe. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as mr balzani has pointed out, draft amending budget no 1/2012 reflects the agreement reached between the three institutions at the closure of the 2012 budgetary procedure to finance eur 1.3 billion of additional costs for the iter project for the period 2012-2013. in particular, the draft amending budget provides for an increase of the ceiling of eur 650 million for heading 1a for 2012. we as a group support mr balzani's report and therefore call for a positive vote, precisely to honour the agreement reached between the two budgetary authorities with the mediation of the commission at the end of last year. i take this opportunity to remind you that the iter project will be one of the most important points we will be discussing in the course of the negotiations leading to the approval of the budget for 2013, negotiations which are about to get under way, in view of the forthcoming publication of the draft budget which commissioner lewandowski will present to us on 25 april. as already stated in the guidelines approved for the 2013 budget by this parliament, we expect that the eur 360 million agreed for the financing of the additional costs of the iter project to be covered by the 2013 budget will be guaranteed without affecting the correct and efficient implementation of european policies, with particular attention to those that contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, identified as our strategic priorities since the beginning of the year and also shared by the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would just like to make two points. iter is an intercontinental project. therefore, contributing what it agreed to deliver is a matter affecting the credibility of the european union. however, as indicated in the discussion, the project has experienced cost overruns. there is also the real problem of management being delegated to the fusion for energy joint undertaking. however, there is some good news. iter has to be audited by the court of auditors and falls within the scope of a discharge procedure. we can, therefore, draw conclusions in order to avoid such problems of budget overruns in future intercontinental projects. the second point should be obvious to ms andreasen. the 2011 budget faced a problem in that more than eur 10 billion allocated to legitimate projects could not be disbursed, for two reasons: the shortage of money and the inflexibility of the financial regulation. this has caused the current problem we have in 2012, namely how to make up this shortfall for 2011 out of revenue from the 2012 budget. you need some insight into how the eu budget works in order to understand the paradox of a small surplus and some underspending the real problem concerned more than eur 10 billion that should have been paid out in 2011 and could not be disbursed.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all the members for their substantial support for the report we are discussing today. i would like to stress, as was to be expected, that in the debate we naturally dealt with the substance, the merits of this iter project, but i would like to remind you that today we are actually implementing the agreement signed in december, which enabled us to conclude the negotiations on the 2012 budget. we are therefore implementing an agreement reached in conciliation, which has brought us to the end of the budgetary conciliation and has brought us to the end of it, from the point of view of the whole negotiation we conducted last year, in the best possible way, because in order to finance this important project we are using the transfer instrument to a minimum and this is really an important result because we are not prejudicing the other programmes which we are financing from the budget. i think this is a result that deserves greater recognition and above all i am very pleased to recall that this conciliation was the final stage of a negotiation which we were able to conduct with great cooperation and collaboration and which i hope will continue.
member of the commission. − mr president, in the name of the commission i welcome the report by mr tőkés. we welcome parliament’s voice on this issue (for the second time recently), so this is clearly very high on your agenda. it is a timely voice, as we are confronted with the following situation. on the one hand, nobody is denying that the knowledge-based economy is the future of europe. on the other hand, education at a stressful time of austerity is one of the areas which is heavily cut in national budgets. in response to the comments of mr papanikolaou, i have to say that we are repeatedly underlining that, even in a time of austerity, training and education should be defended in the national budgets. otherwise we are running the risk of undermining the future prospects of europe. we are also fully aware of the paradox of today’s europe, which is that we are relatively well equipped with highly-qualified labour in our continent. on the other hand, we are confronted with a problem of structural unemployment, especially when it comes to what is already called a lost generation. the interplay between education and the labour market is thus a complex one, and we need reforms – and not only so we can move towards so-called global competitiveness. this must be done, as in the future the demand here will be for higher rather than lower qualifications. on the other hand we have to involve business communities and other partners in order to ensure that the graduates leaving our schools are equipped with useful employment skills (including vocational skills) and that this is not just producing unemployed people in europe. i acknowledge that mr tőkés’s report endorses the agenda proposed by the commission in september 2011 involving the european institute of innovation and technology and our multidimensional approach to the ranking of universities, youth opportunities and projects such as knowledge alliances. we appreciate what is needed in the partnership in order to ensure decent budgeting for a future generation of the programmes: the institute; the marie curie programme (to be renamed marie skłodowska-curie) and erasmus for all. let me clarify one point that is proposed by the commission. the erasmus master student loan guarantee, a part of erasmus for all, is an additional tool supporting students which is complementary to the grants, which will remain the major engine of our programmes. what comes in the future is not only about reinforcing good education but also concerns supporting education partnerships. one more, mr tőkés, thank you for the really constructive tone of your report.
in writing. to educate means to apply intelligent methods to amplify the potential inherent in every man. the increase in education, training and research is a key support for the growth and modernisation of higher education. the success of tertiary education, however, also depends on policies to improve the social inclusion of minorities, gender equality and reduce school dropout. in addition to these objectives, the aim is to encourage institutions to integrate learning mobility systematically into their programmes. but this requires adequate funding: the eu's share of the world's gross domestic product is only 1.3% compared to 2.7% in the us. furthermore, language skills are highly sought after by companies and good language skills improve the chances of finding a job. this theme is linked to the equally relevant one of higher education in the field of e-learning, namely the fusion between education and digital literacy, as innovative methods of training the new generations. europe's future capacity in this respect will depend on putting higher education at the centre of innovation, job creation and employability, and on the ability of higher education institutions to play their full role in the knowledge triangle, i.e. to link teaching, research and business to foster excellence and regional development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against climate change is essential to the survival of the earth. it is absolutely crucial that europe and all stakeholders commit to limiting the average temperature increase to 2 degrees celsius. this is the only way to reduce the risk of natural disasters and the migration and displacement of populations that these disasters entail. as is recognized internationally, the poor are undoubtedly the most affected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are properly managed, and that the community's water resources are properly managed. for these reasons, gender perspectives must be mainstreamed at all stages of the unfccc negotiation process in order to concretely improve the well-being of women worldwide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the awareness of the links between gender policies and climate change has only recently developed and has not yet led to a genuine integration of gender in climate policies. the international situation is not favourable at the moment, and the risk of failure to reach an international agreement on climate change is high. the spotlight is now on the meeting in rio de janeiro in june. i believe that gender mainstreaming is an opportunity to be able to fight climate change better, fairly and effectively. this integration must be based on two principles: to address the effects of inequalities and to combat their causes. improving the understanding of the relationship between climate change and women through a disaggregated data collection system helps to identify areas of intervention, to save energy and water resources that women consume differently than men to meet family needs. the awareness of the inequalities between women and men involves two aspects: the commission's proposal is to be incorporated into the community's policies. i hope that the link between gender and climate can be effectively integrated into the european union's programmes and not just into individual policies. climate change affects all spheres of human activity and must therefore be integrated horizontally into the projects and financial activities of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the kiil-nielsen report shows once again how strongly the european parliament is committed to supporting the creation of a more equal, more participatory and more democratic society. i would not call it an obsession, as mr helmer has done, but a just and shared determination to create a european union better suited to the challenges of the third millennium. the kiil-nielsen report focuses on the integration of gender issues with climate change and i confess that, despite the admirable efforts of the rapporteur, i have not been able to understand these direct links very well, but i certainly can fully share the objectives of this report, the wider objectives of this report, which are to try to achieve a society in which differences are no longer accepted. it is no longer possible to accept a society in which women own less than 1% of the world's goods, represent 70% of people living on less than a dollar a day, are only 17% of institutional representation, earn 10% of the world's income by working two thirds of the time. we have to get past all this. i believe that the kiil-nielsen report can be an effective denunciation of this state of affairs and an important tool perhaps for activating that arsenal of instruments to which commissioner potočnik referred, to integrate gender issues into all policies, because if it is true that climate change certainly has a greater effect on the most vulnerable and marginalised groups, such as women in some cases, it is also true that the issue of women must be re-proposed in a transversal way in all union policies and in all national policies.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by stressing that no country can tackle the problem of biodiversity loss on its own, and that the governments of the member states must cooperate with each other. i call on the commission to review the maximum sustainable yield taking into account all aspects of the fish stocks, in particular size, age, reproductive status, and to address the issue of stocks composed of different species. i would point out that the achievement of the six objectives of the new eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 depends on compliance with the union's already defined standards and the proper management of the relevant initiatives and programmes, in particular the natura 2000 network of protected areas and the life+ programme. finally, i would like to emphasize that the decisive element of the european union's commitment is in the future reforms of the common policies, agriculture and fisheries, as well as in the multiannual financial framework, and i would point out that the failure of the first strategy is due to the fact that the protection of biodiversity has not been sufficiently integrated into the policies of the european union. finally, i remember that when they took the last reserve from sitting bull, he said to the president of the united states a sentence that should serve as a warning to us all: "when you have destroyed the last forest, "killed the last bison, "eaten the last fish in the rivers, "then the white man will realize he cannot eat the money he has produced". let's hold on to this sentence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not go into too much detail, because in the short time i have i would just like to mention a few things. i believe that this seventh environmental action programme can certainly be a useful instrument, but only if it is based on a vision of the future which takes account of the need to maintain a solid european industrial base, which is essential to maintain a decent and acceptable level of employment. there are some things that worry me. i believe that a top priority is that this programme ensures the most effective implementation of the regulations already in place, before any further binding targets are set, and i am deeply convinced that to meet today's environmental challenges we must build future environmental policies on sound evidence, on the most up-to-date scientific knowledge. i am concerned about paragraph 24 which speaks of the 'ecological footprint' as an absolute indicator; it is an indicator, an empirical model of reality, not reality itself, and we must bear that in mind. this has many limitations, it tells us how much we are affecting the environment, but it does not at all estimate for example the quality of the environment, so my concerns remain and i invite everyone to take them into account.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis, technological development and demographic changes have changed society and the labour market in europe in recent years. to meet future skill requirements, many people will need to complete higher education, many workers will need to continually update their skills and knowledge, even if they are already employed. that is why i voted in favour of mr tőkés's text, which aims to modernise higher education systems in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to promote social, cultural and economic development within the union.
in writing. − while revealing the need for better cost planning for major projects in the future, the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council clarifies the financing of the iter project for the next years of the multiannual financial framework, solving the difficulties the project has presented so far, requiring additional appropriations than those originally envisaged. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the iter project is of particular importance within the programme for a greener and more sustainable europe, a key objective of the europe 2020 strategy. i fully share the views expressed in mr balzani's report and believe that the project for the construction of the power station in the south of france will help to produce clean energy on a large scale without releasing harmful and polluting emissions into the environment. the additional funding for the 2012/2013 period confirms parliament's willingness to support a very ambitious project, which has been the subject of much discussion, but which is also of the utmost importance in order to aim for excellence in a field in which the european union can play a leading role.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 1/2012 follows the agreement reached by the three institutions on the financing of the additional costs of the iter project in the two-year period 2012-2013 for an amount of eur 1 300 million. i think that this additional funding is appropriate, namely an amount of eur 650 million in commitment appropriations for the iter project. in recent years, iter has become a detailed engineering plan, ready to be built, for which the models or prototypes of the main technological components have been produced by industry and have been tested in all aspects. on the basis of this experience, the industry has made a thorough assessment of the construction costs. for europe to aspire to become one of the world leaders in the construction of demonstration fusion reactors, the project needs these additional funds.
in writing. − the dynamics of the european labour market mean that demand for highly skilled workers is constantly increasing, and failure to act on the supply side by adjusting the number of skilled workers would, in addition to an inevitable slowdown in economic growth, lead to an increase in the wage gap between skilled and less skilled workers, and to an increase in unemployment among the latter, who are already under severe competitive pressure due to the large inward migration flows. in addition to the economic reasons mentioned above, the strengthening of the higher education system has obvious positive externalities on the social level. it is therefore in the general interest that a modern, effective and accessible education system be set up for all, without discrimination on grounds of social background. for these reasons i thought i should express my support for the own-initiative report on the modernisation of higher education systems, which includes a number of suggestions aimed at rewarding the excellence of teachers, increased collaboration between education and the world of work to improve the employability of students, increased mobility through increased funding for the erasmus programme and the extension of the programme to master's courses, and finally universal access to education through guarantees provided by the eib on student loans.
in writing. - i have also, as vice-chair of the culture committee, fully supported this report, which aims not only to extend access to higher education and to increase the number of graduates, but above all to adapt school curricula to meet the needs of the world of work and to strengthen the link between universities, business and research. we need to train highly skilled workers in 35% of occupations by 2020; we need to improve our higher education system, because it is worrying that only 200 of our 4000 european institutions are in the top 500 worldwide. but above all, we must ensure a future for our young people: for these reasons, i will vote in favour.
in writing. − in an increasingly competitive and economically interconnected world, a good basic education is a crucial starting point for every young person entering the world of work. however, young europeans often start from a disadvantaged position compared to their peers in the rest of the world: a recent survey shows that only 200 european universities are among the top 500 in the world. the challenge of preparing european students for the world of work is one that must be met with determination and without delay, by increasing funding for student mobility programmes (such as the erasmus programme, which has proved to be one of the most successful instruments among young europeans) and by providing loans to students to pursue a master's degree abroad. this will raise the quality of european students' training and at the same time strengthen the eu's competitiveness.
in writing. − education is a key component to be optimised and made increasingly efficient as a driver of the union's economy and future growth prospects. investing in education and, as the report proposes, in the modernisation of higher education systems, means investing in our future by improving the skills of european citizens who are facing new challenges in the field of employment. taking into account the target of the eu2020 strategy that by 2020 at least 40% of people aged 30-34 in europe will have a higher education qualification and taking into account the estimate that 35% of all jobs in the eu will require such qualifications, i believe that the culture and related investments component will play a significant part in the preparation of the 2013 eu general budget and the definition of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − given the current challenges facing european societies, it is crucial that higher education institutions enjoy sufficient funding even in a time of economic crisis. they must be able to provide the skills and knowledge needed for the labour markets of tomorrow. we believe it is vital to ensure that the skills taught are truly relevant to the realities of the labour market and enable graduates to gain employment in the field for which their degree has prepared them. only close monitoring of graduates' employment performance and improvement in the quality and availability of internationally comparable data on graduates, as proposed by the commission, will help higher education institutions to better fulfil their role and to adapt their programmes to the needs of the labour market. we also consider it essential to involve smes more closely in systematic dialogue with higher education institutions to improve programmes and their content. for students, 'quality traineeships' can be a new way to gain access to the labour market and to discover how best to apply their skills and knowledge in practice.
in writing. - today in strasbourg, parliament welcomed the report by mr lászló tőkés on the modernisation of higher education systems in the european union. this is relevant because in europe, although highly skilled workers will be needed in 35% of jobs by 2020, only 26% of the workforce currently has high-level qualifications. the challenges facing higher education institutions, such as ensuring that the skills taught are truly relevant to labour market realities and engaging with external partners such as regional and local governments, communities and businesses, including small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to promote social, cultural and economic development in their regions, must therefore be supported by the european union with sufficient funding, also in view of the current moment when societies are facing the economic crisis. improvements are therefore needed in the whole of higher education if europe is to maintain its cultural and productive competitiveness at global level.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text as it aims at modernising european education systems in such a way as to make them adapted to the needs of the labour market. it is important to coordinate the best education policies at european level, adapting school curricula and establishing a scoreboard for qualifications which can have the same value throughout the community. higher education is the responsibility of national governments and institutions, but the eu is involved through instruments to coordinate education policies and to complete the pathways of young europeans, such as the erasmus scholarship. these choices are essential in view of the possibility for those who hold a degree to practise their profession in all european countries.
in writing. − education is a key aspect to be taken into account in the process of growth, development and prosperity for the europe of the future. i voted in favour of mr tőkés' report because i fully agree with the concrete measures for the modernisation of european higher education systems which are envisaged in this text. by 2020, 35% of occupations will require a highly skilled workforce; actions such as broadening access to higher education, erasmus mobility programmes at master's level and loans for students wishing to pursue a master's degree abroad will help national governments in this delicate process in the interests of future generations.
in writing. − the economic crisis and its consequences in terms of austerity measures and budget cuts demographic change, rapid technological change and the consequent demand for new skills pose challenging challenges to higher education systems in europe and require far-reaching reforms, which must not, however, undermine the quality of teaching that is based on education, research and innovation in the future of a knowledge-based society. this report is a step towards the europe 2020 strategy, which calls for at least 40% of europeans aged 30-34 in europe to have a higher education degree or equivalent qualification by 2020, taking into account the estimate that 35% of all jobs in the eu will require such a qualification.
in writing. - europe has some 19 million students and over 4,000 higher education institutions. the europe 2020 strategy calls for at least 40% of people aged 30-34 in europe to have a higher education degree or equivalent qualification by 2020. given the challenges facing european societies, it is crucial that higher education institutions enjoy sufficient funding even as societies are facing the current economic crisis. this vote underlines the need for a process of modernisation of higher education systems. the institutions of the future should be increasingly equipping people with the skills and knowledge needed for the labour markets of tomorrow. given the persisting disparities between western and middle eastern higher education institutions, it is also very important to provide a real integration of these institutions to facilitate their development and contribute to their modernization.
in writing. − the opportunities offered by the internet are already being exploited by many public administrations. the use of the network applied to institutions and administrations opens up a democratic scenario which is evolving but needs constant updating. the e-government is therefore a driving force not only for the democratic factor that we are all committed to translate into our daily activity, but also for the online commercial market. companies operating in the european market, including in a cross-border context, need to streamline their relations with public administrations in order to speed up their production processes. improving the relationship between citizens and private individuals and the institutions is also possible thanks to the characteristics of the network, which must be kept constantly up to date.
in writing. - i congratulate mr ţicău on the work he has done. by adopting this text, in the light of the commission communication entitled 'europa 2020 - a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth' and its resolution of 21 september 2010 on the completion of the internal market for electronic commerce, parliament wishes to emphasise that, despite further progress in digital and further modernisation of the sector, member states must take into account the basic needs of ordinary citizens, in particular young people or people without education, disabilities or access to the internet, in order to ensure equal access to a quality public service for all eu citizens. the promotion and use of the most advanced technologies, which will have to be made available through research and development, will also be of key importance in order to ensure data protection and security against cyber attacks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that a decentralised approach to aid delivery brings decision-making closer to the targeted realities and to the places where coordination and harmonisation between donors is most effective at the operational level. i also welcome the positive contribution that this decentralisation has made to aid delivery, since the delivery itself has been speeded up and the rigour of financial management procedures and the quality of aid in the partner countries have been improved.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text of the report as it aims to use the tools and systems made possible by information and communication technologies to make services more accessible and usable by citizens and businesses. the 2011 scoreboard for the digital agenda shows that 65% of the population uses the internet and of this 40% for the purchase of goods and services and 57% for online purchases. in the europe 2020 strategy, egovernment could be the future and succeed in meeting the regulation of online publication, one-way and two-way iteration and full transactions. to ensure the exchange of information via the web and to improve trust between states, the european commission is committed to proposing a revision of the digital signatures directive to ensure cross-border recognition and interoperability. i agree with the proposal for a new mechanism to build a pan-european digital infrastructure capable of transmitting data and information via the web.
in writing. - information and communication have had a direct impact on the political, economic, social, cultural and daily lives of the citizens of the european union. a competitive digital single market, capable of removing all obstacles to cross-border electronic services and not distorting competition, would bring many benefits to european citizens. this requires ensuring the optimal distribution of ultra-high-speed broadband and telecommunications networks in all regions of the european union. the disparities in the levels of infrastructure development between and within member states must also be eliminated in order to ensure the demographic sustainability of sparsely populated regions. finally, the national and european development of egovernment will have to be based on cooperation between public administrations in full respect of the fundamental principles of european public services.
in writing. - mali is a country that has been successfully practicing democracy in recent years, but today the situation has changed: secessionist threat in the north, coup d'état, kidnappings, fundamentalist gangs with strict application of sharia, risk of famine. each of these problems is a human drama with a difficult solution. each of these problems can have a contaminating effect on the region. mali is a collateral victim of the libyan conflict, it is in a larger story than itself, where the real reasons originate outside its borders. if we consider the confirmed links between terrorist groups in the sahel and the sahara with drug, arms, cigarette and human traffickers, in particular the taking of hostages for ransom, and if we take account of the reports of serious human rights violations against the inhabitants of mali, i can only vote in favour. i welcome the signing of the framework agreement, which sets out a series of steps to restore constitutional order, and i believe that the aim should be to strengthen state institutions, to promote the active participation of citizens in decision-making processes and to lay the foundations for sustainable and equitable economic development.
in writing. − although the situation in myanmar is still far from what the international institutions - the european union first and foremost - expect in the future, the progress made by the nation under the leadership of president thein sein is before everyone's eyes. the start of a political process that has stimulated a series of radical changes: the satisfactory outcome of the by-elections held on 1 april; such as the release of a significant number of political prisoners; adopting a range of opening legislative and governmental measures, from the launch of economic reforms, to the relaxation of censorship of the press and the internet, to the enactment of laws on freedom of association and strike; the eu is also committed to the development of a dialogue process with the main ethnic groups. while recognizing the still poor framework in which this process of openness and national reconciliation is taking place, the transition from military to civilian government and the possibility for the democratic opposition to be represented are fundamental aspects. finally, i would like to stress that it was the decisive diplomatic actions of italy, germany and france that led to the adoption of a gradual relaxation of eu sanctions and to a gradual development of the political and democratic structures in bremen.
in writing. - in recent months, a spanish company has been the subject of a public campaign of defamation which, together with various administrative measures, may have contributed to the collapse in the value of its shares. i would like to express my deep concern about this action which is seriously affecting a european company and consequently the significant investments made by the european union in argentina. i believe that there is a need to intervene with the argentine authorities to protect the interests of the union and preserve the principle of legal certainty which guarantees the presence and investment of the european union in the country. the vote therefore calls on the commission to take all necessary measures to protect and monitor the eu's interests in argentina in order to prevent similar situations from occurring in the future. finally, i would like to express my solidarity with repsol in this context, because of the difficult period it is going through.
in writing. − mr president, i support this report because – although the decentralised approach to aid delivery brings decision-making closer to local realities – there is still considerable room to improve coordination among donors. the agenda for change acknowledged the need to enhance harmonization among the eu, member states and partner countries, as well as to coordinate development activities and increase their efficiency and effectiveness. indeed, the recent reorganisation within the commission has not yet generated the expected results in the overall coherence of eu development assistance. for this reason, the evaluation of the results of the commission’s interventions in the field should be improved. it is also vital for the commission to consider promoting local consultation when deciding on aid projects. in addition, i totally agree with the need to stress that neither the commission nor the member states should use the current economic crisis to justify a ‘doing more with less’ approach.
in writing. − we believe that a decentralised approach to aid delivery brings decision-making closer to the targeted realities and places where coordination and harmonisation between donors is most effectively operated, while taking due account of the need for ownership at local level. the ultimate objective of the decentralisation and wider reform of external assistance managed by the commission is to increase the speed, the rigour of financial management procedures and the quality of aid in the partner countries. in order to increase the coherence and effectiveness of the union's development policy, consideration should be given to employing local experts and to working towards greater participation in local societies. we therefore encourage the commission to ask its delegations to systematically carry out technical and financial monitoring visits to projects, to do more to improve relations with bilateral agencies and partner governments as well as other development groups, universities, foundations, ngos and subnational authorities, as closer links will maximise the comparative advantages of the decentralisation process and of the different actors in the national context, while avoiding unnecessary duplication of effort.
in writing. − the decentralisation process should be combined with a mechanism at member state level to report on how agencies intend to spend their funds, thus making aid more predictable and identifying gaps in resources and funding opportunities in individual countries. the disbursement itself has been speeded up and the financial procedures have been made more rigorous, but there is still a lot of room for improvement. this is why i think it is useful to consider the possibility of employing local experts and providing them with more legal and financial training, in order to optimise the management of eu aid and to ensure good governance in the medium term at the level of local administration. the vote calls on the commission to ask delegations to carry out technical and financial monitoring visits to projects meticulously and to focus the internal communication system more on the results achieved by aid operations.
in writing. - mr kaczmarek's report analyses positively the general conclusions of the court of auditors that the decentralisation of the management of the commission's external assistance from the central services to its delegations on aid delivery has helped to improve that delivery, making procedures faster but at the same time more effective. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − climate change is a sphere of issues, such as global warming, which require the widest possible study and consideration in order to adopt and shape effective responses. in particular, the relationships between gender and climate change appear to be strong and closely related. women consume energy in different ways and at different times than men, yet they are not involved in the same way in decision-making processes concerning strategies to reduce pollution, protect the environment and combat waste.
in writing. − women make up about 50% of the world's population and still have relatively more responsibility for daily choices about consumption, childcare and household activities. this means that consumption patterns vary between women and men and that women consume more sustainably than men and are more willing to take action to protect the environment by making sustainable consumption choices. in addition, women play a key role in water supply and management in developing countries, as they are often the ones who collect, use and distribute water, not only for domestic use but also for agriculture. the vote aims to mainstream gender issues into strategies for preventing and managing risks associated with natural disasters, and to promote women's empowerment and awareness through capacity building before, during and after climate disasters.
in writing. − the conservation of biodiversity is not only a moral obligation for future generations, but also of intrinsic economic and social importance. for example, the pollination of insects cannot be replaced by any artificial means, or the self-purifying capacity of soils makes it possible to obtain clean water easily and cheaply. what is missing for biodiversity conservation is not new programmes, policy statements or instructions for use, but action. it is also of the utmost importance to integrate the biodiversity strategy into the eu's forthcoming reform processes (e.g. fisheries, agricultural, energy and cohesion policies). future funding will play a very important role in this respect. the eu and its member states have so far spent less than 0.004% of their economic capacity on global measures to safeguard and promote biodiversity: it is necessary that member states begin to understand the importance of integrating natural capital into their public accounts. i therefore hope that the next multiannual financial framework will provide for the availability of adequate financial instruments to help prevent the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services in the eu.
in writing. − the protection of biodiversity must be restored as one of the objectives of the european union in the field of environmental protection and, more broadly, of economics and food security. the data we have on this issue tell us that we are still a long way from achieving the 2020 target of 40% of species and natural habitats. this means that much more can and must be done in this direction. the multiannual financial framework, the cap and the cfp will be important test beds for what can be done in this direction. the cap is already an important instrument for protecting biodiversity. however, as formulated by the european commission, the proposal on the 'green' component must take account of the need not to increase the administrative burden on farmers and not to compromise the penalties system which must not affect the right to receive the basic payment of the cap aid.
in writing. - the report by mr gerbrandy was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. preserving biodiversity and ecosystems should be a top eu policy priority. the data show a steady decline in biodiversity in the eu, a loss that has a high economic cost. according to economists, 3% of gdp is lost every year due to biodiversity loss. this costs the eu €450 billion every year. the main issue is not the new strategy, but the forthcoming reforms of the agricultural and fisheries policies and the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − i believe that achieving the targets set in the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 is crucial, as it offers the opportunity to take the necessary steps to protect nature and ensure ecosystem services for future generations. the most important challenge is to integrate biodiversity into all other policy areas. i hope that it will take advantage of the review phase which all the main european policies are currently undergoing. to avoid another failure, political determination, courage and commitment are needed, as well as the availability of adequate financial instruments.
in writing. − the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 offers the opportunity to take the necessary steps to protect nature and ensure ecosystem services for future generations. all major european policies are currently under review. the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, common fisheries policy and the european roadmaps for energy, transport and resource efficiency will soon be transposed into legislation. it is necessary to demonstrate that biodiversity claims are much more than just promises and must be reflected in concrete policy measures. i am in favour of the text of the report, but i have serious reservations about the development of new ad hoc financial instruments. it is necessary to provide for the availability of adequate financial instruments in the next multiannual financial framework. the value of biodiversity and ecosystem services must be integrated into our economies. only then will their costs and benefits be reflected in product prices. that is why the member states should integrate natural capital into their public accounts, but this would imply the current economic and financial crisis and above all would expose the member states to a huge risk that could turn out to be another failure at european level.
in writing. − the united nations has declared the period 2010-2020 the 'decade for biodiversity'. biodiversity is essential for the existence of human life and for the well-being of societies, both directly and indirectly, through the ecosystem services it provides. climate change, biodiversity loss, the threats posed by invasive species and the overexploitation of natural resources are transnational and transregional challenges affecting every citizen of the european union, whether living in urban or rural areas. for these reasons, urgent action is needed at all levels of government - local, regional and national - to mitigate these effects. the vote in favour underlines the urgent need for action and the need to give greater priority to this area in order to achieve the eu's key biodiversity target for 2020 and to respect international commitments on the subject. the preservation of biodiversity is a collective challenge that must be tackled with the commitment and involvement of the various stakeholders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that a high level of environmental protection is one of the essential conditions for ensuring the quality of life and preserving the stability of ecosystems. protecting our environment improves the quality of life, stops biodiversity loss, ensures better water quality and less noise pollution. such protection also contributes to job creation and growth and ensures the well-being of current and future generations. the future seventh action programme will also need to provide a clear and ambitious vision for 2050 in order to give a long-term perspective to all stakeholders.
in writing. − the sixth environment action programme is almost at the end of its ten-year planning period, which has resulted in the achievement of a number of global environmental policy objectives. europe continues to want to be first in the class by making unilateral commitments without demanding, as it should, a global effort. a seventh environment programme has become necessary to achieve existing objectives in line with the europe 2020 strategy, such as strengthening environmental legislation and recognising an international dimension to environmental protection. protecting our environment increases the quality of life, in particular by safeguarding ecosystems and their services, halting biodiversity loss, ensuring better water quality and noise pollution, creating jobs and growth, and ensuring the well-being of present and future generations. i am against the text of the report because the prospect of achieving these objectives will prove counterproductive, since they are difficult to achieve except at disproportionate and unsustainable costs, and entirely at the expense of the european citizens. the fight against climate change, the protection of the environment, the defence of biodiversity must be done on a global scale.
in writing. − environmental degradation, due to air pollution, noise, chemicals, poor water quality and deterioration of the ecosystem, is a major factor in the increase in chronic diseases. given the current sustainability challenges facing the european union, environmental action programmes, as comprehensive instruments, help to ensure the necessary coordination between the different union policies. over the next decade, it will be even more essential to tackle environmental issues with a more coherent and integrated approach that takes account of the links between the different issues and that fills the gaps that still exist, as otherwise irreversible damage could be caused. the vote therefore underlines that the seventh environment action programme must provide the necessary readability and predictability for national and local administrations, citizens, businesses and investors in relation to the environmental choices of the european union. environmental legislation will therefore have to be implemented and strengthened, environmental objectives integrated into all sectoral policies and environmental protection given an international dimension.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i agree with what mrs yannakoudakis said. finally, the european commission, instead of proposing new sacrifices for its citizens, has committed itself to reducing tariffs. in this case we are talking about mobile telephone tariffs within the european union. international roaming charges on public communications networks were, and still are, a real nuisance to users. the measure increases competition in the sector and reduces the cost of communications from abroad. this will make it easier for citizens to use their national mobile phone number when travelling within the community to make calls, browse the internet and send sms messages. in line with the objectives of the 2020 strategy and the digital agenda, i believe that it is necessary to contribute to the development of the european communications market by making it more competitive and facilitating market access for new entrants. i am in favour of the text because it harmonises the regulation on international roaming, protecting the consumer and ensuring fair treatment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about good examples for citizens, when we talk about the internal market and the possibility of creating genuine, concrete opportunities for change in everyday life through the internal market, we can really use this example and we would obviously need many more as a result of our work. it is a good example because, as we said, it affects the real life of citizens, their daily lives, it also helps businesses to expand their market, not because the costs are high and the services are low, but because they can increase the supply of services, and it also helps the economy as a whole, so i think it is certainly a good example, a good example. but you will understand, commissioner, that there is a widespread desire in this parliament, and i would particularly like to recall the speeches by two of my colleagues, riera madurell and goebbels, from my group, but also by many others, who would like this good example to become a good one and for us to move towards, and this measure partly provides for this, a zero roaming result, because it is possible. are we utopians? i'm not going. no, because a european internal market requires that the tariffs be similar between domestic and non-domestic, there is no longer any difference if we talk about the single market, and above all because there is no technical justification for the increase in costs. i remember when in 2007 we started talking about voice roaming, the first third-party roaming we've ever been to. there was a certain incredulity and also a certain difficulty, not on the part of the commission - i have to acknowledge your predecessor, commissioner reding. the difficulties were widespread, coming from those who said that the position of a real market does not require regulation of tariffs, that they were political prices, that they belonged to an old conception of the left, and so on and so forth; and there were people who said it wouldn't work and so on, that it would slow down the market, but we did it. the interest of the citizens and the finding that there were no such technical justifications for the increase in costs led to this. so the world is traveling, things are becoming more and more, let's say, possible, so i think an even bolder outcome is possible. the last point, because there is no other point to make: we had a delegation of tunisian citizens today, i don't know if they are still here. perhaps among the many benefits of this extra-eu enlargement is that the possibility of using it without the cost of the scarecrow also helps democracy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are more than 120 million broadband users in europe and at least 70 million citizens who use their mobile devices to connect to the internet, to work, to study or simply to obtain information. thanks to this regulation, the european union has finally decided to act in favour of all these consumers by reducing the cost of international telephone traffic: voice, data and sms. this is a positive decision because the price-cutting programme will lead to an average reduction in tariffs of 35% over the next three years. but that 's not enough . in a difficult time like the present one - both economically and in terms of employment - communication, new technologies and innovation are a primary asset that europe must defend with greater courage. every european citizen must be able to move freely between member states, using the telephone tariff set by his national operator. no more fraud and high-fee bills for people moving within the eu! if we really want to give a concrete answer to the citizens, let us create a kind of telecommunications schengen, which no longer imposes different tariffs on the citizens depending on the countries in which it operates.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is no better day to have this debate: today is the celebration of europe, the celebration of an idea which has brought together twenty-seven nations, creating a single market, a common currency for many of our states, a continuous exchange in the field of culture, in the field of education, in feeling, in short, that we are all more united and closer. what tool today unites more than communication? the existence of a single internal telecommunications market cannot be maintained without telecommunications and if there were still significant differences between national and roaming prices. the ultimate objective is therefore also the hypothetical elimination of the difference between national tariffs and roaming tariffs, with the consequent establishment of an internal market for mobile communications services: that's one of the goals we have to set for ourselves. this improves competition, protects citizens and saves money, because high roaming charges are always a hindrance to the union's efforts to move towards a knowledge-based economy and the creation of an internal market for 500 million consumers. and not just that. the creation of a social area of education, culture and european enterprise, based on the mobility of people and digital data flows, should facilitate communication between people in order to achieve our goal of a true europe for the benefit of citizens. i therefore thank the rapporteur, mrs niebler, for her expertise, for her great ability to mediate, but also to achieve the objectives that have been achieved, for the importance of this dossier, and together with her, of course, for all the shadow rapporteurs.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on europe day this regulation is a good example: the harmonisation of roaming charges is fundamental to the process of completing the internal market of the european union. there is always much talk about the single market and the removal of tariff frontiers, yet the barriers between european countries in the field of roaming telecommunications seemed insurmountable. that is no longer the case, and it will not be until july 2014 and beyond. the reduction in tariffs is finally real and tangible, and that is good news for citizens throughout europe. the agreement commits all operators in the 27 member states without exception to reducing roaming charges for calls, messages and internet connections as from 1 july next. a significant saving at a time of crisis and severe economic hardship for many families. i am also pleased with the rule which will allow users abroad to choose the cheapest operator from 2014. so no more restrictions! but all this is not enough, it is only a first step, the real objective is zero roaming, the real objective is the total abolition of roaming charges. the construction of a fair and competitive market also depends on europe's ability to protect the needs and rights of its citizens.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament for the opportunity to participate in this debate and to respond to some of the issues arising out of the recent visit by a delegation from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to sicily and lampedusa. we all know the challenges that some member states are facing when it comes to large and mixed migration flows to the eu. a number of these issues are more for the commission to address. furthermore, some of your questions should be answered by italy as a member state herself. i will therefore focus my comments on those issues which fall specifically within the remit of the council. i will particularly try to clarify how the council has sought to respond to the migratory pressures which italy, among others, has faced recently. the situation in the southern mediterranean has been an important item for the justice and home affairs council, in particular following the arab spring. in that respect, the council adopted last year conclusions on the management of migration from the southern neighbourhood, as well as on borders, migration and asylum. these conclusions underlined the need for genuine and concrete solidarity towards those member states most directly affected, as well as for a comprehensive response to the underlying causes. therefore, and building upon the work of the former polish presidency, the council has discussed ways of better managing asylum and migration within member states, in particular by preventing irregular migration and through cooperation with third countries. as part of this work the council agreed in march this year on a set of conclusions for concrete and practical ways to ensure solidarity towards member states facing particular pressures on their asylum systems, including through mixed migration flows. they highlight, for example, the importance of responsibility and mutual trust, preventive cooperation, the need for solidarity in emergency situations, strengthened cooperation between easo and frontex, financial solidarity and strengthening cooperation with key countries of transit, origin and first countries of asylum. on 26 april 2012 the council agreed on an eu action on migratory pressures as a strategic response containing an extensive list of actions in six priority areas. the action plan aims to prevent and control the pressures arising from illegal migration as well as abuse of legal migration channels. it combines and develops common eu action points and tools to prevent irregular immigration. in addition to these measures, member states have been encouraged to support the activities of frontex in the region. this support includes a joint operation, epn-hermes, in the mediterranean sea, intended to assist italy to address the increase in immigrants from north africa trying to reach lampedusa and sicily. frontex has also assisted italy in the area of border surveillance and search and rescue operations, screening of intercepted persons, debriefing activities and reaction capacity. according to data provided by frontex, approximately 51 000 people were detected during 2011 in or near lampedusa or in the surrounding area of sicily. most of them were tunisians and sub-saharan nationals. preventing such tragedies has to be a top priority. support for italy has also been provided through funds made available under the ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’ general programme. we are also working on long-term solutions for those in need of international protection in the countries of the southern neighbourhood, such as resettlement opportunities and humanitarian assistance to countries in the region having to deal with people displaced because of the libyan conflict. hopefully this will help relieve some of the pressures on italy. the council is expected to adopt a set of conclusions soon concerning the eu approach to migration and mobility, including on eu cooperation with third countries regarding migration. of course we are also working to put in place a strengthened legal framework which will enable the union and member states to provide better responses to situations of this kind. the establishment of the common european asylum system is an important part of this and the danish presidency looks forward to continuing to work with parliament and the committee on civil liberties and the commission in this area. for the council it is crucial that member states fulfil their obligations both in eu legislation and in international treaties, and that will be and will continue to be the position of the danish presidency.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, everybody is aware that italy faced very high migratory pressure from north african countries last year, especially after the events in tunisia and libya. some 60 000 migrants arrived, many of them needing protection. numbers so far this year are much lower: 790 people were intercepted in the first three months of the year. we all hope the situation in north africa will continue to stabilise, but people are still likely to try to cross the mediterranean. large influxes remain possible, and europe needs to be ready to react. that, by the way, is not just an italian issue; it is a matter of concern to the whole of europe. the eu acted quickly last year to support italy, notably through the hermes and aeneas border surveillance operations coordinated by frontex. frontex stands ready to support italy this year too. those operations both intercept irregular migrants and rescue those in distress. preventing tragedies at sea is a key objective. the eurosur system we proposed last year should also help by improving detection and tracking of small boats, which should enable faster rescue missions. some of those arriving are fleeing persecution and violence and need international protection. eu asylum rules aim to ensure that those who need it have effective access to asylum procedures, even when they are part of mixed migration flows. the commission closely monitors the implementation of those rules. the closure of lampedusa as a safe port of disembarkation is a matter of concern, something we quickly communicated to the italian authorities. commissioner malmström was in rome two weeks ago, and she was pleased to hear that italy intends to renovate the damaged facilities so that lampedusa can again become a point of first reception, assistance and initial screening before migrants are transferred to centres elsewhere in italy, where their possible needs for protection can be assessed. the commission looks forward to hearing the date for the reopening, and that reopening is part of a wider proposal which the new italian government has run up for an integrated strategy on management of the eu southern border. this proposal is very welcome, and we look forward to seeing how it is taken forward. the reception conditions directive obliges the member states to provide asylum seekers with appropriate accommodation. the member states have some flexibility in how this is provided, and specifically-designated reception centres are one option. the commission is in close contact with the italian authorities with a view to ensuring appropriate conditions and will not hesitate to take appropriate action. when it comes to the detention of irregular migrants, the return directive includes important safeguards, notably that the detainees must be kept in specialised facilities and must always be separated from ordinary prisoners. families must be given separate accommodation, and children need access to education. the ngos should be able to visit, and the detainees need to be able to contact their families and legal representatives. both asylum seekers and those subject to a return procedure must have access at least to essential healthcare. italy notified the commission of its transposition of the return directive last year. we are currently checking that this was done in line with the directive. as far as the guarantees i just mentioned are concerned, initial findings are that italy has correctly transposed them. to help address those challenges, italy has received substantial financial support from the eu, with a total of eur 232 million allocated for 2010, making it one of the largest beneficiaries of the ‘solidarity and management of migration flows’ general programme. this is before you count emergency financial support, which was over 18 million last year – and part of that was used to expand and develop government reception centres. the eu is also developing deeper contacts on migration and mobility issues with the southern mediterranean countries where possible, notably including tunisia and libya.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eight months have now passed since we went to lampedusa, sicily, to record and observe in practice what had happened during a year of increasing migratory flows. but the dramas of that period have not entirely ceased. in these very days, but already since april, other dramas have been consummated: ten refugees have died on the journey, a disturbing sign, from which it is clear that nothing that could have been done has been done. we have a priority, and that is to make this parliament and the european institutions seriously committed to three values: solidarity, responsibility and also courage. the commission, and the council, should probably be much more courageous. in the meantime, in the negotiations which will have to bring, in the 2013 budget and the new financial framework 2014-2020, more resources specifically for the protection and security of the territory of the european union and at the same time in cooperation with third countries, recalling the good work done by frontex that can and must be improved. these are priorities that cannot be demanded of others: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we would like to know where the agreement with libya is and whether there is progress with tunisia and egypt. and again, good on the readmission: it is necessary to ensure that readmission, where possible, can take place in the territories of origin. the mediterranean is an area of millennia where bonds of peace have always existed between the countries bordering it. but now more than ever we must look to a perspective in which individual member states cannot cope with an emergency which is european. it is europe that must take up the challenge with strength, momentum and passion, and do so immediately and without delay.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. our head of delegation, cecilia wikström, wrote a letter to the italian minister of the interior, chancelleri, and got a pretty clear answer. i would like to point out above all that after that visit to italy the government has changed, and the approach to the situation has also changed, but the situation itself has also changed in the countries from which the migration flows predominantly originated. but this should not dissuade us from a careful analysis of what has happened and of the present situation. the most relevant fact that is still current today is the status of lampedusa as a non-safe port, the closure of the first aid and reception center of contrada imbriacola following the fire of september 2011 that damaged it, but only in part, that is, a destroyed dormitory and one damaged on seven buildings of the structure, and then the de facto suppression of the presidium project. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union. it is important that a first aid and reception service should be set up and function in lampedusa, which is the first port of call for those who arrive from the other side after journeys that are not easy or without risks, and this is well known by the somali shipwrecked people who arrived in april this year after seeing ten people die on the boat on which they were travelling, or the twenty who were transferred from linosa because there was no room in other reception centres, or the eighteen who, still in linosa, live in the changing rooms of the stadium. and the cala creta tourist residence where they are now staying is certainly not a cie or a car, and above all in the meantime both the health system and the possibility of applying for asylum have been dismantled in lampedusa. everything depends on the good will and good heart of the carabinieri on duty or the citizens and volunteers of lampedusa. another consideration is the role the centre itself has played in the recent past. the fact that thousands and thousands of people were allowed to gather in a place which, by capacity and function, could only accommodate a few hundred, against all legal and ethical standards, and, incidentally, that a territory of a few square kilometres, already difficult because of its location and logistical difficulties, was forced to accommodate a number of people greater than its own inhabitants, must make us reflect on the responsibilities for a situation of extreme tension which then led to the fire itself. i think that all we have to do is look at the facts and analyse them to see that it was the evacuation of so many people from lampedusa that had accumulated to produce all this. today, better relationships will surely lead to better situations.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the previous government did well to block the continuous flow of arrivals in a situation which certainly did not allow for a welcome worthy of the name. the report also makes a number of points on this point, because the centres are regularly destroyed by illegal immigrants, and the european union is paying for this destruction with its taxes. it is true that the european union has provided considerable aid, but part of it is being, or had to be, used to rebuild, at the expense of the european taxpayer, what the non-community gentlemen are destroying. and that would take courage to write! as you should also be concerned about human rights when you do these missions - i, when i participated, i always dealt with these aspects - to make sure that the rights of those who work are also respected: the police force, the personnel, who need to be protected, because there have been cases of murder. so it is right that the government has taken a serious and energetic approach to regulating this emergency and these flows, trying to help defend europe's external borders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am here for the umpteenth time - this is the third year of my mandate - and we are faced with the same problems every time, as if it were the first time. and cyclically, like every other year, a hecatomb is repeating itself. the mediterranean has become an open-air cemetery. it is also the tomb of civilization and, above all, the tomb of hope for thousands of citizens who are fleeing - men, women and children, as was said a moment ago - who are fleeing their countries and especially from civil and religious persecution. europe has a very great responsibility because it dealt with executioners like gaddafi, who used these poor martyrs, and gaddafi did it precisely to raise the stakes and did it precisely at the time when europe was dealing with libya. we always have to argue as if it were the first time: i'd like to understand, what do we want to do? what concrete answers do we want to give our citizens? because we are facing yet another tragedy, and moraes is right, the italian government has certainly changed, but there are still some answers we must give.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today because - we have heard it in this house too - we are also celebrating our europe, which is an institution created to bring together today 27 countries, to bring together a single market, to give some of these countries a common currency, to bring together countries which share the same vision, the same plans for the future, with regard to culture, education is a big deal. but one of the key words of this union is solidarity: so today, let us say the starting point for this discussion is what has happened in sicily, what has happened in lampedusa, even in recent months; but it is a situation which is obviously not linked only to sicily or lampedusa, but is a matter which concerns malta, which has concerned and concerns spain. so if this solidarity unites 27 countries and wants to unite 27 countries, this solidarity must be seen, it must be felt: it is a solidarity that sometimes these nations have not felt, sometimes they have felt alone and abandoned in relation to quite serious phenomena that were happening on their shores. but we now need to strengthen these aspects further, we need to strengthen the instruments which enable us to control our coasts and we also need to establish bilateral agreements with the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean, agreements which enable us to avoid large-scale immigration flows. we saw it: this is the system that works best, which also gives people the chance to preserve their dignity, to not have to flee their countries of birth and to not lose so much human and professional wealth to the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean. so if we are to celebrate this europe, let us also celebrate it by remembering the reasons which unite us, which bring us together, and which also allow us to have a better dialogue with the mediterranean countries.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mrs wikström for her report on amending the rome ii regulation, which formed the basis for today’s resolution. my colleague viviane reding will look carefully into your recommendations. in your report you suggest including a provision on defamation in the rome ii regulation. it is indeed true that the rome ii regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations excludes defamation from its scope, because it was not possible at the time to find a compromise between council and parliament during the negotiations on the regulation. in 2010 the commission carried out a study on the subject, which concluded that the solution to this matter could not be found without the minimum harmonisation of substantive law. let me reassure you that the commission attaches great importance to ensuring that the right of freedom of expression and of information go hand in hand with the right to privacy. the freedom and pluralism of the media must be respected, in line with the charter of fundamental rights. at the same time, the fundamental right to privacy must be supported, as it protects against violations of privacy and rights relating to personality. those two rights need to be balanced properly. with this in mind, the commission takes note of your resolution, and we shall look into it when preparing our report on the evaluation of the application of the rome ii regulation, expected to be adopted by the end of 2013.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mrs wikström on her work and on the excellent quality of the report and the compromises reached. the purpose of this report is to make it possible to fill a gap, unfortunately very serious and obvious, in the rome ii regulation, which arose from the lack of agreement on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations arising from the violation of privacy and personality rights. this is particularly due to the significant impact of the accessibility of the internet on content published and disseminated massively on blogs and social networks. this is therefore necessary to facilitate access to justice, ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and ensure an appropriate balance between freedom of expression and the right to privacy. in this respect, i fully share the urgency of the report to adapt the rome ii regulation and i particularly welcome the proposal to create a centre for the voluntary settlement of crossborder disputes arising from the infringement of privacy and personality rights. given the high costs of judicial resolution, a voluntary alternative dispute resolution system, which is of course much less expensive, could meet a twofold need: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, obviously we italians are particularly attentive to this subject. i thank the rapporteur for her work and the commission for what she has said, particularly for what she has referred to, on the clause and the subject of defamation. this is an important dossier, because the rapporteur has managed to strike the right balance between personal freedom, privacy and legal certainty. all too often, we see defamation, sometimes for free, thanks to the freedom of access through new technologies - and the internet in particular - with real invasions of privacy. the idea of being able to set up and establish a centre which can resolve the disputes that have arisen in a united manner or which can serve as a reference point for them, i think is really a choice of freedom and a choice of rigor at the same time, which we all have been waiting for. i am also looking forward to what the commission will say in the future on this subject, because perhaps too much has been left unfinished today.
member of the commission. − mr president, in the last year we have seen unprecedented developments in our southern neighbourhood. the european union must therefore provide full support to these countries in their paths towards democracy and prosperity, not least through our trade and investment policies. last year i had preparations stepped up for negotiations on deep and comprehensive free trade areas with the four wto members undergoing democratic transition. we have also sought to maintain negotiations under older mandates, namely on agriculture, services and industrial standards. with the exception of services negotiations with morocco, we did not advance far enough; but this was largely due to administrative changes on the other side, with transitional governments deploying resources to achieve other priorities. we did, however, manage to unblock the revision of pan-euromed rules of origin between the eu, efta, turkey, the mediterranean and western balkans partners. we continue to push for a timely completion of this process. in december 2011, the council finally adopted negotiating directives for deep and comprehensive free trade areas with egypt, jordan, morocco and tunisia. the main objective of these future negotiations will be the progressive integration of the economies of these partners into the single market. we have begun preparations for negotiations in march with tunisia, morocco and jordan. we are ready to initiate negotiations as soon as the preparatory process is completed, based on an assessment of the commitment of each partner to long-lasting democratic and economic reforms. as with eastern neighbourhood partners, negotiations will be subject to key recommendations by the commission. these agreements will be comprehensive, covering a full range of regulatory areas of mutual interest such as trade facilitation, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, intellectual property rights, public procurement and competition policy. they will also include provisions on investment protection and on further liberalisation of goods, services and establishment as appropriate. the commission will take into account, in negotiations, the different economic situations and priorities of each partner country as well as their sensitivities. the commission agrees on the need to enhance our trade relations on the basis of the more-for-more principle with countries where a deep and comprehensive fta is not immediately possible, such as libya, lebanon or algeria. the immediate priorities should be their accession to the world trade organisation, and contacts in this respect continue. with libya, we also need to define the most appropriate trade framework for our relations. in all the actions undertaken we will continue to encourage economic integration within the southern mediterranean region, which is still poorer than anywhere else in the world. an integrated mediterranean market will be much more attractive for investors. we will continue to support efforts to reinforce the agadir agreement between egypt, jordan, morocco and tunisia and to extend it to other regulatory areas through trade and services, investments and public procurement. this also includes providing financial assistance and expertise to the members of the agadir agreement, and we will continue to support industrial cooperation. since 1995 we have been sharing knowledge and good practice in spurring entrepreneurship and improving the business and investment climates across the euro-mediterranean area. industry ministers of the eu and the southern mediterranean adopted the euro-mediterranean charter for enterprise in 2004. this policy document provides guidelines for conducting reforms and promoting small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ as much as 25% of the workforce in the region. last but not least, the commission will also invest in student mobility and academic exchanges. we put 743 additional erasmus mundus mobility grants at the disposal of southern mediterranean students and academics for the 2011-2012 academic years, and there will be more of these in the coming years, including for the future erasmus for all programme. mr president, honourable members, the arab spring presents a major challenge for the eu in terms of accompanying our partners towards democracy and a market economy. this will not be an easy task – you are well aware of the complexity of trade and investment negotiations. we hope we can count on the european parliament’s support.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologise to the commissioner - my dear friend the commissioner. so, it is time to offer concrete responses to the arab spring. europe has followed with passion what has happened on the other side of the mediterranean. we followed with passion, with anxiety, with great participation of the citizens, even with a feeling of surprise over what happened and was happening in those months and still continues to take place with very difficult situations in egypt, in libya, in particular, not to mention syria. sometimes even hesitantly, i recall here some statements of european foreign ministers who a little over a year ago defined verbatim and i remember this because it makes us understand where we come from gaddafi as an example of reformism for the rest of africa, statement of february last year, syria as a country capable and i quote again verbatim of meeting the need for modernity of its citizens by its leadership. we come from this. another statement from february last year. but in the end, even with the support, the european empathy, the arab spring has worked hard to assert itself, and it's been a beautiful change. what has happened in the southern mediterranean is extraordinary, it is also a reason for great hope, but of course how difficult it is still. and what contribution can we make as europeans? what can we do to try to make these peoples, who are moving towards democracy, understand that there is a better life prospect also through economic development. now, we have two problems among others. the first is that the potential of trade between the european union and the countries of the southern mediterranean is certainly underutilized. we're below what you could do. there are some figures in the report, i will not mention them here, but taking into account the geographical proximity, the fact that we all belong to one area, which is the euro-mediterranean area, the figures on trade policy are certainly not satisfactory. the second problem is that traditionally we have set up our trade relations - and especially the southern countries have set them up in this way - so that those who have benefited from trade with europe are above all an elite, an oligarchy that has managed the flows from this trade in an often extremely exclusive, if not selfish, way, and we need, after the arab spring is trying to liberate the political processes, to liberate the economy as well, to make sure that whoever wants to become a producer, an actor in a global economic and trade process in egypt, tunisia, morocco, jordan, libya and other countries, can really do so, having a possibility of finding direct dialogue in europe. this means also trying to help, through trade policy, a social situation which is in some cases desperate. in egypt, we are over 35% less in trade volume than we were under mubarak. investment is scarce, tourism is a resource which is almost exhausted, and so we must have new policy instruments, and in this respect i believe that in our work - i thank the commission very much for the constant help it has given me in addition to the shadow rapporteurs - we have proposed and will return to in the final speech a series of concrete elements to meet these expectations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is symbolic that on this day, a day to celebrate europe, europe itself, the european parliament is tackling the problem of a new trade strategy for the southern mediterranean, especially since this will not only be a trade strategy but also the beginning of a series of initiatives of greater strength and impact on democracy, development and the welfare of these countries. europe has among its missions the welfare of its own citizens, but also the welfare of those of other nations, especially those closest to us. the arab spring has changed the politics and economic structures of the mediterranean area and confirmed the strategic role of international trade as a tool - if used correctly - to combine economic relations with the processes of democracy and the development of society. the development of trade and a greater focus on small and micro enterprises can mean an immediate path to development and social well-being, which is useful in promoting greater stability and democracy in those countries. the principle of 'more for more', more aid in return for more commitment, introduced by the commission, must become a market principle, because without a greater commitment on the part of the governments of these countries to a real opening up of the markets, to the implementation of appropriate economic reforms, it will not be possible to create an area where the market will really be free and fair, as we europeans want. the european bank must not make some of the same mistakes in the mediterranean as it has in europe, especially in relation to small and mediumsized enterprises and micro-enterprises which play an important role in the economic progress of that region. i would like to thank mr rinaldi because his report has highlighted these points with great precision and the attention paid to micro and small enterprises is a hope for stability, economic progress but also social progress.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the commission, in its laudable desire to advance, help and, i would say, influence the direction and direction of the arab revolutions in the sense of an opening up to democracy and economic progress based, of course, on a system of productive economy, is not aiming in the right direction when it links all this to the possibility of exporting agricultural products and so on. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then, why not start thinking seriously about the role of our small and mediumsized enterprises, to instill them as a tool for genuine job training, because it is not your bureaucrats who do this, but those who know how to create small and mediumsized enterprises, our small and mediumsized entrepreneurs, who can do it seriously. then we encourage them to cooperate. cooperation and economic revival can only come from below with serious and concrete things, not with declarations of principle, philosophical, which do not help.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i thank mr rinaldi for a comprehensive report, politically acceptable, full of idealistic motives and concrete proposals, which will certainly be looked at with renewed hope by the peoples who face the mare nostrum after the upheavals that have characterized them. we must change course, we must return to the spirit of the barcelona declaration, in order to overcome the fragmentation of the trade relations between the european union and the mediterranean countries. only a short-sighted view of the european union's strategic role can suggest that a policy of closer integration with the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean contradicts the european union's western vocation. trade, regulated by a balanced new free trade agreement, could also be an instrument of stability in an area affected by ferment that has not yet found a full democratic outlet, which also involves reducing inequalities, strengthening the productive fabric, better protection of civil and social rights, and the commitment to avoid drifting towards islamic fundamentalism. of course, it is not just up to us, not just the european union. it also depends on the great difficulties of cooperation and integration between the countries of the southern shore. but if the mediterranean, in the words of a great writer, becomes a project and not just a state of affairs, then together we can overcome the current political and economic obstacles that have delayed a good agreement for so long. the european union must take an initiative in the israeli-palestinian conflict, deepen the regulatory dialogue with all the countries to eliminate the excessive tariff barriers and not open their markets on the basis of reciprocity, which implies that a larger dose of aid must be linked to a greater commitment by our partners. in conclusion, i can only reiterate my appreciation of this report and i trust that the executive committee will take it as a priority objective of its political and administrative agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that mr rinaldi's excellent report has been a success in this house. i agree with the flattering assessment of the report. however, i would like to raise a small question: our europe, compared with this new world which is trying to find democracy and different economic conditions, is a europe divided by the mediterranean. it is precisely this particular attention to the mediterranean that i would like the commission to pay, both in terms of environmental aspects and in terms of economic transactions in the mediterranean. the mediterranean is a fishing place. we are building a new fisheries policy in europe which will set very strict rules on the part of europe. on the other hand, there are no rules. so why not use some form of fisheries agreement, support for these countries so that they apply the same rules as those applied in europe. this would be good for european fisheries, it would be good for the sea, it would be good for the environment, it would make this rift less and less divided and more and more a homogeneous place on which to build the future of europe and of this new world.
member of the commission. − mr president, a lot of interesting remarks have been made and i have taken good note of them, but i am not going to respond to them in detail because the members who put the questions are no longer here, so they cannot hear me. they will have to read me. let me just add that we will, of course, be cautious in this whole process. we have political considerations, trade considerations and human rights considerations. we have to take all these into account. the report produced by mr rinaldi will certainly help us to do so.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i urge the committee not to be too cautious, or vice versa, and above all i urge my colleagues not to be obsessed with the question of agriculture. we cannot continue to see trade relations between the european union and the mediterranean countries solely from the agricultural point of view, and the relationship is going in exactly the opposite direction, namely that we have asked for more links with civil society, more scholarships. i thank the commissioner for what he said at the opening on the development of erasmus mundus. we are calling for bilateral chambers of commerce between the european union and the mediterranean countries, which do not yet exist. we are asking for new credit instruments, something which is also beginning to be available, also for small and mediumsized enterprises, with the work we have done through the eib and the ebrd, and we are asking above all for the liberalization of these trade exchanges through the possibility of new actors, new entities, such as small and mediumsized enterprises, emerging in the countries of the south. there is extraordinary talent in the arab countries in this area, which has always been suppressed by the oligarchies that have been in power. and in this respect technical cooperation to dismantle non-tariff barriers - all elements of our relationship - is crucial. we can't let this go. we have the opportunity through trade policy, which is the exclusive competence of the european union, to do real political work, which has still not been done in part to support these processes. some say that nothing happened, that it wasn't the arab spring. i challenge anyone in this house a year and a half ago to imagine that mubarak, ben ali and gaddafi would be out of power in their countries in a few months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say that i am not against the idea of a trade agreement, but i am against the idea of a trade agreement. the report proves everything else.
in writing. the european commission's tendency to focus on the main airport centres is in direct opposition to the need to link territories which, because of their physical and natural characteristics, such as islands or outermost regions, require full accessibility and territorial integration. the commission also notes the need to review decision 2012/21/eu on the application of article 106 in order to better understand the vital impact of these investments in terms of territorial cohesion and social and economic development, especially in regions lacking other forms of transport. moreover, eu co-financing through ten-t, the cohesion fund and the regional fund would enable regional airports to play a leading role in the creation of a wider common european airspace and it is therefore necessary that the commission, during the review of the ten-t, recognises the vital link between regional air services and economic regeneration. i remain convinced that the future policy on transeuropean transport networks must guarantee the mobility of people and goods and make the territories, including the peripheral ones, more attractive as a concrete contribution to the revival of investment and employment in the european single market.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i am very pleased to be able to participate today in this very important debate on the correct implementation of the eu budget. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr geier and the rest of this house for its very warm reception of the danish presidency. let me start by stressing the particular importance which the council attaches to the proper spending of eu appropriations. this applies especially in times of economic and financial crisis, when many member states have to cut their national budgets and keep their expenditure under strict control, and when european citizens and taxpayers pay even closer attention to the correct use of public funds, not only at the national but also at the european level. on 28 february my colleague minister vestager was in the european parliament’s committee on budgetary control to present the council’s recommendation to give a discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget for 2010. on that occasion she was able to participate in a very interesting and fruitful debate on the implementation of the eu budget, which concentrated in particular on its implementation under shared management by the commission and member states. it again became evident that the european parliament and the council share the same concerns. we therefore both addressed the fact that a large share of payments from the eu budget is still materially affected by error, and we both follow the overall aim of attaining an unqualified audit opinion from the european court of auditors. in that context i would like to mention that minister vestager has informed her colleagues in ecofin about the issues raised by the committee on budgetary control during the debate. i can only repeat what was said in february. the council would like to see more progress in the financial management and control of eu funds. it encouraged the commission to fully assume its responsibility in the implementation of the budget, to reinforce its supervision and control structures and to strengthen its cooperation with and its guidance to member state authorities. the council recalls in this context the importance of recoveries and financial corrections which are an essential element in protecting the union’s financial interest and in improving the management of eu funds. payment should be interrupted and suspended whenever significant deficiencies are identified and until corrective action is fully implemented. unduly paid amounts should be recovered without delay and full transparency in the implementation of corrective action must be ensured. i can assure you that the council presidency will make all possible efforts to make progress on this issue and i have noted that many of the council’s priorities are also those of the european parliament; i therefore count on your cooperation and support. we can improve the situation if all actors – the european parliament, council, commission and member states – work constructively together towards the sound financial management and an efficient control of eu funds. the ongoing negotiations and the revision of the financial regulation are a perfect opportunity to improve and simplify procedures, and to reasonably strengthen supervision and control without creating any excessive administrative burden. finally, i have to say a few words on the disagreement between the european parliament and the council on the discharge procedure between our institutions. the council is of the opinion that it is important to find a durable solution to this recurring problem and that this solution should be based on three principles: accountability, transparency and reciprocity. therefore, the council has made a proposal to the european parliament on the discharge procedure, and the council has asked the european parliament to appoint a formal delegation to discuss this proposal and to solve the outstanding issues. the danish presidency looks forward to the continuing informal dialogue between our institutions on this issue, which we hope can pave the way to solving our disagreements. i welcome therefore this debate today and i am looking forward to a very constructive cooperation with the commission, the european parliament, the member states and the council.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all let me start by thanking you for the constructive and fruitful work achieved over the last few months. the commission has been in close contact with your rapporteur and your colleagues on the committee on budgetary control to discuss all kinds of issues related to the sound financial management of the main eu programmes. six members of the commission and the secretary-general of the commission participated in very lively discharge hearings. this intense dialogue between the institutions demonstrates the importance, but also the complexity, of the matters which we have to deal with. the commission appreciated very much this trustful and good cooperation and i am looking forward to continuing to work with you on the topics we have discussed. the rapporteur mentioned four priority actions for the commission and i would like to stress that the commission is fully aware of your concerns and your expectations vis-à-vis the commission, but also vis-à-vis other financial actors. i would like to highlight the implementation of financial engineering instruments as one example where the commission has proactively taken into account the outcome of the discussions we had. following the commission’s proposal, member states have to provide more focused and detailed reports on the implementation of these instruments. as a consequence, by the end of the year, we should have all necessary information to hand to provide you with an analysis per member state and a comprehensive evaluation of the use of financial engineering instruments. but more has been done. in anticipation of the need for closer monitoring, the commission proposal for the next programming period already envisages enhanced monitoring and control mechanisms for those financial instruments. apart from the priority actions highlighted by the rapporteur, the discharge report includes many more requests to the commission. they are all being analysed and will be followed up. a comprehensive report on the follow-up to the discharge requests and on the concrete actions taken will be issued later this year, together with the evaluation report required under article 318 of the treaty. i consider the effective implementation of these recommendations to be of the utmost importance in addressing the weaknesses identified in the implementation of the eu budget. we have discussed the role of member states in the implementation of the eu budget many times already. member states have a crucial role when it comes to the operational implementation of eu programmes and projects. the authorities of the member states are paying out, and controlling on the spot, some 80% of the eu budget to final beneficiaries. there is no doubt that the commission will continue to assume its final responsibility for the correct implementation of the eu budget, in accordance with the treaty. but to reduce the error rate under shared management, we do need the member states’ cooperation and commitment to assuming their responsibility as the first-level financial actors in direct contact with the final beneficiaries. as the last annual report from the court of auditors has revealed, member states’ authorities did not detect and correct many errors, even though they had the necessary information available. further work on effective – but also proportionate – supervisory and monitoring mechanisms in the current period and for the future is therefore necessary. the commission appreciates your support in further developing these mechanisms and improving the implementation procedures at member state level. the provision of reliable and complete financial information and audit data by the member states is one example of an area where improvements are necessary. we can see some progress in this regard, but this is not yet satisfactory. this is why the commission will, from now on, transmit the annual summaries of the member states with an analysis of their content to the committee on budgetary control, in accordance with article 319 of the treaty. where appropriate, the commission will make recommendations to the national authorities on how to further improve this reporting instrument so they can contribute better to the commission’s assurance process. the discharge authority will be informed about these recommendations. however, their publication remains subject to the conditions set in the legislation on public access to the eu institutions’ documents. in this context, i would like to recall the importance of introducing a management declaration of assurance, which the commission has proposed in the revision of the financial regulation. this would be an important building block towards an improved assurance chain between the management and control bodies in the member states and the commission services. here as well, in the negotiations on the financial regulation, the commission is on the side of parliament to ensure the highest level of transparency and accountability from the member states. we have, moreover, proposed introducing political accountability through the possibility of submitting national declarations of assurance. provided that member states’ national declarations respect necessary conditions, the commission will, as an incentive, take those declarations into account in the establishment of its own audit strategy. as regards the european development fund, we welcome the parliament’s recommendations. the area of external aid is by nature a risky and complex one. an error level of 3.4 % is limited but remains a source of concern for both this house and the commission. we will take all necessary actions to further improve the edf’s financial management, securing the effectiveness and sustainability of the eu’s support, which is badly needed by the acp countries. this discharge procedure provided valuable input for the negotiations on the next financial period. several new measures included in our proposals for the next generation of eu spending programmes were inspired by the european court of auditors and the discharge authority. the commission will demonstrate its firm commitment to achieving all possible improvements. the discharge report on which you will vote is a clear road map for actions to be taken by the commission and the other financial actors.
president of the european court of auditors. − madam president, i am honoured to be the first president of the european court of auditors to be invited to address parliament at this stage in the discharge procedure. the discharge procedure is essential for european union public accountability. it helps provide citizens with assurance as to what european funds were spent on, whether they were used correctly, and what was achieved with them. the primary responsibility for answering these questions lies with those responsible for managing european funds: the commission and the relevant national authorities. they need to put in place systems capable of doing so. the court’s role is to provide independent assessments of the quality of their financial management and reporting systems. for the financial year 2010 the court concluded that the european union accounts prepared by the commission do provide a reliable picture of what european union funds were spent on. we noted, however, that the commission does not yet provide a complete and reliable set of information on whether european union funds have been correctly raised and spent. on the basis of our own audit testing, the court concluded that revenue and commitments underlying the european union accounts were legal and regular in all material respects. in contrast to this, payments underlying these accounts were affected by material error with an estimated error rate of 3.7% overall. as in previous years, the area most prone to error was cohesion. we also concluded that systems were only partly effective overall and that there continued to be risks in the other areas of expenditure, which need to be managed and disclosed. the court recommended that due account should be taken of these risks when revising the legislative instrument for the next programming period. in particular, the court stressed that reforms should focus on both reducing errors and improving the results we achieve with the funds of the european union. it is also important to ensure there is adequate provision for transparency. the commission’s reporting on results achieved needs to be improved. in particular, we emphasised the need to set smart objectives and milestones for the new programming period. this is a point we also stressed in our recent opinions on the new legislative proposals governing the main areas of expenditure for the period 2014 to 2020. in the discharge decision on the 2009 financial year, this parliament invited the court to present an opinion on the evaluation report required by the lisbon treaty. this report was delivered in february this year by the commission and we will issue an opinion shortly. the court believes that this first evaluation report represents an initial step in the right direction and provides parliament, the council and the commission with an opportunity to discuss and agree how it can be made useful to the discharge authority as an instrument for european union transparency and accountability. the court believes that an effective discharge procedure is essential for the european union’s accountability and we are fully committed to working with parliament and the other partners in this process to achieve that goal each year.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the work of the committee on fisheries has been very thorough, since this is a post-lisbon codecision area. in this sense the rate of execution found is 97.20%, so a good rate of execution as recorded. however, within the chapters, a particular chapter, namely chapter 1102 on fisheries markets, has been very poorly implemented and the commission has given some somewhat satisfactory answers, but these do not suggest that they will be replaced in the following years. as well as one of the issues highlighted is the implementation in international fisheries agreements: in these cases, the commercial aspect is too dominant compared to the aspect linked to the growth of the sector: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to conclude, mr president, with just one more small point, namely that there are some cases which have been in dispute for almost ten years and which are not being closed for some time. this is a formal recall of the entire execution. thank you for your time, especially.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction plays an important role in relation to a priority which perhaps should be supported more rigorously and more forcefully by the european parliament: the european union is also taking action to combat drug addiction and drug addiction, at a time when addiction is not limited to drugs and psychotropic substances, because there are other addictions which should and could be better tackled through a list of measures which the european union should support. returning to the audit, we found the regularity of financial management, we believe that in the financial perspective 2014-2020 more resources should be allocated to a context in which the youth system of adolescence is often strongly attacked, it is important to disseminate on the web as important as facebook and the internet but these can also sometimes lead to specific dependencies. the observatory could propose improvements to support multilingualism and we believe that it can further improve its activity, which is very positive, through flexible measures at the organizational level. a greater link, which already exists, with other agencies and with the member states, makes it possible to say that the prospects for growth in this delicate sector are there, with a principle and a value which is that of an overall strategy on addictions as a whole and therefore not just on drugs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to focus on the discharge to be given to two european bodies, the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee. apart from some serious errors in management, especially with regard to the economic and social committee, what puzzles me is the very nature of their budgets, which are purely administrative: for both, we have 70% of staff expenditure and the remaining 30% of property expenditure. i wonder what real added value these institutions can bring to europe. i am certainly in favour of a europe of the regions, but the body which should represent them here, as it is structured, seems to me to be of little use. over two hundred million euros are spent on these two institutions each year with no real return. as they are conceived today, these two advisory committees, which are essentially powerless, represent what europe should not be, namely a series of self-serving bureaucratic apparatuses.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking as rapporteur for the opinion on the 2010 discharge of the committee on women's rights and gender equality and i wanted to speak about the european institute for gender equality. 2010 was a special year for this institute because it became financially independent. two years after this financial independence, 92.3% of the staff in terms of human resources of this institute has been completed and is now fully operational and functional. the institute plays a central role in identifying appropriate measures to overcome the many forms of discrimination against women, in particular through the production of studies, research, statistical data and the exchange of good practice on equal opportunities within the eu-27. the institute is currently playing a key role for the various member states and the european commission, which are considering legislation to increase the number of women in decision-making roles in companies, and so the work of this institute is crucial. i therefore oppose the request to consider merging the vilnius institute with the european union agency for fundamental rights in vienna. these two institutions have completely different roles. as i said, the vilnius institute deals with equal opportunities issues, while the vienna agency focuses on human rights.
mr karim has asked to speak and he has the floor.
let me express the solidarity of the whole of parliament to mr karim.
written declaration 0003/2012 on support for the establishment of a european day of remembrance for the righteous, submitted by gabriele albertini, lena kolarska-bobińska, niccolò rinaldi and david-maria sassoli, has received the signatures of the majority of members of parliament and will therefore, in accordance with rule 123 (3) and (4), be circulated to its addressees and published in the 'agreed minutes' of this sitting, with the names of the signatories appearing in the minutes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of the just, who has always been identified with those who saved jews from the final solution, has become, with the approval of the european parliament, the heritage of all mankind. there have been objections from those who do not recognize soviet communism as totalitarianism and refuse to compare the camps to the gulag, from those who, in order not to compromise relations with turkey, would like to ignore the massacre of the armenians, from those who think that bringing the shoah closer to the other horrors of the twentieth century with the widespread and generalized use of the word just the banalities, from those who finally criticized the exclusion or inclusion of this or that example of genocide or massacre. the european parliament has overcome these and other objections, and from today the men and women who with their courage, sometimes at the cost of their lives, have opposed the oppression of the tyrant of any ideology and political colour are recognized as heroes of human dignity and of the construction of the moral identity of the peoples of europe.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, the commission welcomes the european parliament’s decision to grant discharge to the commission for the implementation of the 2010 budget. i am particularly grateful to mr fjellner, with whom i have had excellent relations throughout the whole discharge process. today’s vote acknowledges that the budget has overall been properly managed. it also points out many challenges for all actors involved in the management and control of eu funds. with the final vote today, parliament submits an extensive list of requests to the commission. the commission services are already working on the replies and follow-ups, and the commission will report back in early autumn. thank you very much for your vote.
thanks for the italian words, colleague! but i have not neglected the vote at all, i have only accelerated the pace when the majorities were clear.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
we shall now move on to the explanations of vote.
mr president, this document focuses on the importance of regional airports as potential vectors of territorial, economic and social cohesion. such infrastructure can and must play this role, especially for citizens living outside large urban centres. the rule that lowers the threshold for determining which airports can receive state aid to two hundred thousand passengers a year is a good one. regional aviation can ensure that free movement in europe is a reality not only for people living in the big capitals but also for citizens of europe living outside these areas, ensuring that these cities and regions can enjoy the benefits brought by not only increased mobility but also the tourism that comes with it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the alde group i am voting in favour of the own-initiative report on regional airports and i am sure that it will provide the legal basis for further regulation of these airports. this dossier testifies to the importance which the european parliament attaches to these airports in the context of air transport and the important role they play in promoting territorial, economic and social cohesion in the territory of the european union. the definition of regional airport was given for the first time and an attempt was made to narrow down the scope by means of a division into major and minor, also in relation to criteria such as the volume of passenger traffic and the connections provided by these airports. it is certainly desirable that the commission should then follow up with more stringent guidelines on their definition. a particular step is the recognition of the need to guarantee public service obligations in relation to isolated, insular and peripheral territories, for which we know that there is a handicap in relation to participation in the single market. finally, i think that the definition which sets out and clarifies a negative indication of the irrational proliferation of new regional airports was useful.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, regional airports are important for better connecting europe and for enabling its citizens to move within the union, but these structures must be built and must operate in accordance with the environmental standards set by the union itself. we cannot allow air traffic, and with it regional airports, to go further at the expense of the european environment, the quality of our air and the integrity of our territory. in northern italy, for example - i am thinking of the cities of treviso and verona - airport facilities have been expanded in recent years without taking due account of the realities in which these hubs operate every day. it is good to have more air connections in europe, but not at the expense of the environment, the air and the territory of europe itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, regional airports are essential transport hubs and factors for growth and territorial cohesion. these airports often depend on large injections of public money, but these are now becoming increasingly scarce and it is therefore important that they have a specific purpose, avoiding a proliferation that would lead to the non-use or insufficient use of airport infrastructure. the scores of airports in northern italy, situated a few dozen kilometres apart, are a typical example. the commission has not yet defined a precise definition of regional airport and should therefore establish common criteria for a correct definition. finally, i am concerned about the wording concerning the scope and in particular the exclusion of airports whose main catchment area is a capital city. i do not think that is correct, as the definition of the user pool is not uniform and can change. despite these criticisms, i voted in favour of the proposal to draw the commission's attention to these important points.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the potential of the new communication channels is enormous, in a world where everything is digital, information is a commodity for every european citizen. the european union needs to protect all end-users and try to minimise the disparities between member states in the european market. i would remind you that the european union, as the promoter of a single internal market, cannot ignore the implementation of the internal telecommunications market. the considerable differences between domestic and roaming prices obviously make these objectives difficult to achieve. i agree with mrs niebler's proposal: each supplier in the country of origin must clearly and adequately inform the customer of the consumption levels reached and agreed. transparent information on the conclusion of contracts and on the charges for the use of data roaming services will be a means of protecting european consumers, and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this resolution is a very important political signal in the fight against maritime piracy. paragraph 30 of my motion for a resolution specifies that in the event of disputes between states as a result of military action to counter piracy in international waters, the national jurisdiction of the flag state over ships and military personnel on board should apply, as required by international law. this is crucial to avoid future disputes like the one currently taking place between italy and india and to defend the prerogatives of the military involved in the atalanta mission and as vpd on merchant ships. i dedicate the approval of this text to massimiliano latorre and salvatore girone, the two italian soldiers who have been unjustly detained in indian prisons for almost three months, waiting for india to recognise italian jurisdiction and for these two soldiers to be tried by the national judiciary. i hope that european diplomacy will renew its support for italy in this battle of civilisations.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not support mr moreira's report. at a time like the present, when uncontrolled relocation and the economic crisis are putting western europe in serious difficulty and would require a review of all the principles underlying the common commercial policy, the fact that the wto decides to accept a chinese complaint against an article of the anti-dumping regulation in force in the european union, or of council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community, clearly shows that there is no will at world level to defend our productive and industrial fabric and that the commission has not yet understood that anti-protectionism does not benefit european companies and its consumers, but the harmful behaviour of third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr moreira's report on defence against dumped imports from non-eu countries. to promote the development of world trade, the 27 member states have drawn up a common commercial policy towards third countries, seeking to abolish trade restrictions and excessive tariffs. this liberalization of trade does not imply a failure to respect the rights and obligations of trading partners operating at international level. i believe that real reforms and a serious commitment to tackling problems of market distortion by ensuring consistency between business behaviour and rules of international free competition are essential.
in writing. - in a globalised market environment and in the light of the recent opening up of the so-called 'arab spring' countries, it is most appropriate and necessary to pay attention to illegal trade practices such as dumping, in order to protect european businesses. strengthening the network of safeguards in defence of our entrepreneurs means not closing ourselves off to competition fears but allowing access to the global market with clear and legitimate conditions for both european and non-eu competitors. i therefore voted in favour of the report which provides for measures to combat the phenomenon of dumping which is likely to favour some importing firms at the expense of others, thereby altering the nature of the markets.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the vital moreira report. i agree with the commission's proposal. i agree with the wording of the new article 9 (5) in particular because an anti-dumping duty must be imposed at the appropriate level in each case and without discrimination on imports of products found to be dumped and causing injury.
in writing. - the economic crisis in europe is such that more decisive action is needed to defend our industry and our small and mediumsized enterprises, especially when they are subject to dumping or other unfair behaviour by economic operators from countries where the rule of law does not apply and where the protection of social and environmental rights is de facto non-existent. the fact that the wto decides to accept a chinese complaint against an article of the already unambitious anti-dumping regulation in force in the european union is a step in the opposite direction, making it more difficult to defend our companies and our jobs. i cannot therefore agree with the content of this regulation, which is likely to aggravate the difficulties of our economic operators.
in writing. - i wish to express my vote against this measure and i wish to state the political reasons which led me to this decision. we must send a signal to the european commission to represent us properly in the wto. the european parliament's defeat in a dispute with china at the world trade organisation would today oblige it to delete an article of our basic regulation on anti-dumping rules. it is wrong not to be more firm in the face of international bodies such as the wto. it's wrong not to defend our production system. it is wrong not to expect china to reciprocate our products and services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr sturdy's report because, after russia's accession to the world trade organisation, the eu can no longer impose quantitative limits on imports from wto countries into the union, as it did in the case of steel from russia. in addition, this measure could favour trade relations between the eu and russia and would therefore be very positive for our country and our companies, as the russian market is rapidly expanding and very dynamic.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1342/2007 on the administration of certain restrictions on imports of certain steel products from the russian federation contains a clause according to which the rules contained in the regulation cease to apply when russia becomes a member of the world trade organisation. this was done last december, and it is clear that an outdated regulation must be repealed. in addition, the union has no right to apply import quotas to other wto countries and would be subject to sanctions or legal proceedings if it did so. finally, considering that russia's accession to the wto can also represent an important opportunity for our companies, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i agree to the abrogation of the previous regulation as russia is now a member of the world trade organisation. i also agree with the rapporteur that he wants to see trade relations between the eu and russia developed in full compliance with the commonly agreed provisions of existing bilateral agreements. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − russia's accession to the world trade organisation means that the eu must adapt to the new market scenario: the opening to the russian federation with consequent limitation of restrictions. the text specifically abolishes the quantitative limits on steel imports into the eu, as provided for in the 1997 partnership and cooperation agreement. the opening up in this sense is certainly positive and considering that the rules to be followed will be those imposed by the wto, the eu's import - export will be able to improve.
in writing. - my vote in favour of this measure is not just a due act. indeed, wto rules require the european union to remove rules imposing restrictions on the import of products from other wto members. since russia has joined the wto, if we had not started with today's vote to remove certain rules, we would have faced certain trade sanctions that would have harmed our production system and our companies.
in writing. − since russia joined the wto on 16 december 2011, the eu no longer has any right to impose quotas on steel imports under regulation (ec) no 1342/2007 and therefore the perpetuation of such quotas would constitute a breach of wto rules and expose the eu to legal action by russia. i voted in favour of this text, as it is very likely that with the repeal of the european regulation, the eu will benefit from more liberalised access to the russian steel market. there will still be minor restrictions on bilateral imports, but these should not, in my view, constitute obstacles within the framework of the wto rules. it is expected that european steel and metallurgical exports could benefit from an increase of some eur 107 million each year, which is to the benefit of our companies working in this sector.
in writing. − independent research shows that the so-called 'digital divide' is largely overcome in all age groups, weighting education and volume of interactions. we live in a world with over 600 million websites and a lot of interaction with government and public administration is now done online. according to eurostat, in 2009, at least 65% of european enterprises used e-government, rising to 83% for large companies. the oecd has repeatedly pointed to the development of e-government as a key axis for improving transparency and simplification processes. the imposition of onerous paper-based consultation procedures on a society that now lives, communicates and informs itself digitally and relies on it for essential aspects of its daily existence, from financial markets to telemedicine, seems to be an outdated legacy that must be urgently corrected, given its widespread negative effects, for example on the economy and business, in terms of legal uncertainty and the resulting slowdown in investment, trade and development. i therefore support the recommendation and hope that the new council regulation will enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. − european integration also involves recognising the role played by the union's institutions. in my view, the actions promoted by these institutions do not have adequate visibility at national level. i therefore believe that an effort is needed to promote transparency policies and to make official documentation easily accessible to all european citizens. the electronic publication of the official journal is already a reality and is now the main form of consultation. the court of justice has, however, clarified that, in the absence of a legal basis, publication on the internet has no legal value and therefore no rights and obligations can be asserted. the legal status of the electronic version of the official journal will significantly increase transparency, since it will be immediately and freely accessible to all, and the information contained therein will be reliable and binding. i believe that it is our duty to make official information accessible to the widest possible public, and i therefore gave a favourable opinion on the report on the electronic publication of the official journal of the european union. i also take this opportunity to underline the importance of implementing the digital agenda set out in the europe 2020 strategy by promoting access to high-speed internet connectivity for all european citizens.
in writing. - i believe that this report should be fully supported, in the name of that transparency and closeness to the citizens which is so much demanded of the european institutions. the publication of the official journal of the european union in electronic format, with its authentic value and legal effect, will also be made mandatory, thereby ensuring faster and cheaper access to it and promoting the development of a digital internal market. i also consider that the report does not overlook the aspects relating to the protection of the authenticity, integrity and unalterableness of the electronic publication of the official journal, so i voted in favour.
in writing. − the introduction of the legal basis equivalent to the legal value of documents published in the official journal of the european union in electronic format is an indisputable step towards opening up public institutions to their citizens. the fact that this gap has been closed gives added meaning to the other initiatives taken by the european parliament to make its own workings, and those of the other european institutions, as transparent as possible for the citizens of the union. i believe that a common legal basis for the legal documents of the official journal was necessary in order to be able to fully grasp the social and technological changes that are evolving with increasing speed and require ready responses from the institutions.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this draft council regulation which aims to strengthen legal certainty by making community law more accessible and allowing all citizens to rely on the electronic edition of the official journal of the european union (oj) as the authentic, official, up-to-date and complete version. the electronic publication will therefore be legally equivalent to a publication of the oj with legal value. only in exceptional and temporary cases of unexpected interruption of electronic publication would the printed edition have legal value. we are convinced that this regulation will allow for an appropriate reform of the way the oj are published, ensuring greater legal certainty and better access for citizens to the legal acts of the european union. the reform will also increase legal certainty and reduce the cost of access for citizens and businesses.
in writing. it is a fact that almost all people consult the legal acts of the european union in electronic format. it is therefore appropriate that it should be brought up to date. the publication of the official journal on the internet will ensure greater legal certainty and facilitate citizens' access to the legal activity of the european union. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − citizens' free access to information and the dissemination and publication of european legislation are at the heart of this council proposal for the electronic publication of the official journal of the european union. easier access to eu law will make it easier for all citizens to understand and be sure of community law; in addition, texts published electronically will have legal value and will be available for consultation at any time. this is a good idea for communicating the work of the institutions to european citizens more quickly and clearly.
in writing. - i congratulate mr ziobro on his work on this new regulation which provides for the electronic publication of the official journal of the european union, in order to ensure faster and cheaper access to official information. while it is true that rules must be established to ensure the authenticity, integrity and unalterability of the electronic publication of the official journal, it is also true that in the age of the internet and the digital revolution european citizens cannot be denied unlimited access to the rules of law in all the official languages.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i consider it a priority to strengthen legal certainty by making eu law more accessible and allowing everyone to rely on the electronic edition of the official journal of the european union. given that almost all people now consult eu legal acts exclusively in electronic format, it is unacceptable that this version is not legally binding. moreover, consultation of the printed version of the official journal is a long and costly process, carried out by a very small number of users. i therefore believe that the reform can increase legal certainty and reduce the cost of access for citizens and businesses.
in writing. − strengthen legal certainty by making eu law more accessible, enabling everyone to rely on the electronic edition of the official journal of the european union as the authoritative, official, up-to-date and complete version. this vote establishes the principle that electronic publication will therefore be equivalent to a publication in the official journal with legal value. only in exceptional and temporary cases of unexpected interruption of electronic publication would the printed edition have legal value. this will ensure greater legal certainty and better access for citizens to the legal acts of the european union. at present, almost all people consult the legal acts of the european union exclusively in electronic format. the fact that the electronic version is not legally binding is unacceptable in itself and is a source of uncertainty which must be removed.
in writing. - i fully share some of the principles set out in my colleague mr bradbourn's report in helping regional airports, especially those in remote areas or on islands, to develop and strengthen existing links while avoiding becoming the exclusive domain of low-cost airlines. it is right to start with a cost-benefit analysis so that a national plan for airports can be drawn up and, if necessary, new airports built. good planning can only bring benefits and answers to social and territorial needs, thus creating new jobs and services, improving the quality of life of citizens and also of businesses and even more of tourism. let us not forget that tourism is the third largest socioeconomic activity in the eu, accounting for 10% of gdp and 12% of employment. in line with the strategy on the future of tourism adopted on 27 september, this report makes a significant contribution to boosting the competitiveness of the tourism sector and to consolidating europe's image and visibility as a tourist hub. finally, i think it is appropriate that regional airports should be included in the ten-t guidelines alongside the terrestrial transport networks and that they too should be able to benefit from private and public funding.
in writing. - i support the resolution by mr bradbourn calling on the commission to pay greater attention in eu legislation to the situation of 'regional airports', whose function is predominantly linked to the territory. they must be included in the planning of the community transport network in order to offer them greater accessibility and to ensure a fair allocation of slots to different air carriers, so as to ensure proper competition which protects both the airport itself and the consumer who approaches it.
in writing. - the report deals with problems, prospects and developments in the air transport market which have sensitive implications, particularly in terms of economic growth and consumer rights, and which should be examined and addressed with the instruments at our disposal, and the relevant local authorities should be called upon to reflect on their own. i would like to highlight four main themes: territorial cohesion, which involves sensitive citizenship rights profiles and problems of maintaining local economies in peripheral areas; the practices introduced by some low-cost airlines, which are only partly due to the low margins of this sector, which call for a reflection on consumer rights, especially as a result of the intervention of the spanish government; the role of regional airports in the economies of the territory, and in relation to structural weaknesses that expose them to the leverage of dominant positions; finally, and most importantly, the need to integrate regional airports into the sphere of attention and intervention of the european legislator, with a simplification and regulatory alignment activity and the incentive to build integrated systems and networks that enhance aspects of multimodality. the report, which i approve and endorse, opens a more attentive view of the role of air transport in our societies.
in writing. − the free movement of persons within the union's borders is one of the four fundamental freedoms guaranteed to european citizens. in order to guarantee this right de facto, it is necessary to establish a capillary transport network, which is not limited to the large capitals. parliament therefore has a responsibility to correct the direction taken by the commission, which is too focused on the development of hub airports and too little on the potential of regional airports. the full development of these airports is essential both to guarantee the freedom of movement mentioned above and to promote the economic development of the areas where these airports are located, since their expansion would also help to alleviate the congestion problem of hub airports and, consequently, to make the transport system more sustainable also from an environmental point of view. for the reasons i have just mentioned, i therefore voted in favour of the report on the future of regional airports. finally, i hope that malpensa airport will be strengthened and will once again play its role as an international hub, because the city of milan, as the economic capital of our country, and its businesses must be properly connected with the other member states.
in writing. − regional airports are taking a very secondary role in eu legislation despite the increasing difficulties they are facing. difficulties caused by the monopoly of low-cost airlines and the unfair practices of these airlines, as well as the isolation from the rest of the transport network and infrastructure, which forces passengers to change transport several times before reaching the regional airport. this results in the cancellation of the advantage originally sought by the traveller, inevitably leading many potential passengers to prefer travel with scheduled airlines via the larger and more functional hub airports. i therefore believe that this report deserves my full support, since it seeks to ensure fair competition between air carriers and greater accessibility to these airports. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − air transport is of fundamental importance both as a transport and as a generator of economic growth. however, there is a tendency on the part of the european commission to underestimate the impact of some of its regulations on regional airports, while concentrating almost exclusively on major airports. this is an unjustified trend affecting airports which already face obstacles from the environmental impact of air traffic, congestion and competition from larger airports. the present report takes these issues to the european commission and makes several proposals (moving some air traffic to regional airports, integrating them into the ten-t network, establishing a common definition of regional airport) to improve the current situation.
in writing. − the development and growth of regional and peripheral airports is an opportunity for the growth of local economies and currently less developed areas of europe. the current under-used and under-exploited airport terminals are diverse and action to improve their efficiency is desirable. the economy of the territories would clearly benefit, particularly in the tourist sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. in this resolution we call for the european union to support regional airports more and more and to take full account of the economic opportunities they represent for the territories in which they operate.
in writing. − with this report we want to underline the important role played by regional airports and their air services as they not only help to facilitate the smooth functioning of the single market of the european union by transporting people and goods between regions, but are capable of producing economic growth in themselves by attracting more economic investment. on the contrary, they have often been affected or excluded from community legislation, sometimes unintentionally but in a highly disproportionate way. we therefore call on the european commission to pay particular attention to regional airports and regional air services, as they risk being excluded from the market in the face of increased consolidation between large airports, airlines and airline alliances. a non-competitive and monopolistic market would not only be extremely damaging to regional aviation but also to european citizens, who would face a reduction in choice and an increase in prices. we therefore call for greater commitment to the development of sesar and the single european sky, as their completion could lead to major economic and environmental savings through increased efficiency and would allow some small regional airports to benefit from new investment and technology.
in writing. - avoid an unnecessary proliferation of regional airports; we must avoid the creation of airport infrastructure which is then unused or used inefficiently, and which would end up being a financial burden for the responsible authorities. i agree with the need to encourage the strengthening of existing links, especially in areas with geographical difficulties. my vote on the report on the future of regional airports and air services in the eu is in favour.
in writing. − the issue of air transport within community policy is increasingly a topic of discussion as, for cohesion and development policy, the eu needs to regulate funding for airports. these are divided into two types, regional airports and hubs: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all air carriers, including those operating in the eu, and to extend the scope of the directive to include air carriers operating in third countries. the eu should focus more on managing funding for these national scales which are crucial for territorial, economic and social cohesion.
in writing. the european commission should not underestimate the importance of 'regional airports', which differ from 'hub airports' in that their function is mainly linked to the territory in which they are located. unfortunately, these airports are increasingly being neglected by european legislation and are considered secondary in recent proposals for the development of the european transport network. i share the rapporteur's view that many regional airports are monopolized by individual airlines and isolated from the transport network. unfair practices such as the 'one-baggage rule' imposed by carriers, which reduces passenger expense at airports by up to 70%, with consequences for the local economies linked to regional airports, must be prevented.
in writing. - today parliament voted on the report by mr philip bradbourn on the importance of regional airports as a development engine for regional tourism and for specialised freight transport, which are crucial for the territorial cohesion and economic diversification of the union, especially in regions where other means of transport are lacking. however, the crisis has hit regional airports hard, which are currently out of the market, leading to a greater consolidation between the main airports and airlines, with the result that there is less choice and higher prices for customers. the inclusion of regional airports in the ten-t guidelines could facilitate access to private finance and encourage member states to invest in better land transport networks, in particular high-speed trains. however, to improve the overall quality of services, it is necessary to address some practices adopted by the main low-cost airlines, such as excessive booking fees and restrictions on hand luggage that discourage travellers from buying products at the airport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe it is essential to strengthen the role of regional airports in facilitating the smooth functioning of the eu single market, in transporting people and goods between regions and in generating economic growth in its own right. i firmly believe that european regional airports and air services should be seen as key elements in creating an efficient european transport network that will facilitate trade and ensure mobility for more people. finally, i hope that regional aviation can ensure that eu citizens living in these areas enjoy the benefits of not only increased mobility but also the resulting tourism, access to new markets and the ability to attract more economic investment.
in writing. − there is currently no definition of 'regional airport' in europe: there are major and minor airports according to the types of connections provided, the volume of passengers and the connections with the main cities and the main airports. once the criteria and parameters for defining regional airports have been established, with a view to efficient intermodal mobility, they can make a significant contribution to improving access to regions and businesses, promoting tourism and the development of related services and spreading economic prosperity. the vote draws attention to the way in which regional airports and air services have often been unintentionally, but disproportionately, affected by european union legislation. the operational and economic efficiency of regional airports and air services needs to be improved, as well as the passenger experience of using these facilities and services.
in writing. − as regards the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section iii commission and executive agencies, i would like to reiterate what was stated in the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, namely that the efficiency and effectiveness of the union's external action could be further increased if the staff of the eu delegations, irrespective of the home institution, cooperated closely and flexibly. the commission and the vice-president/high representative should not wait to put in place all the necessary administrative and regulatory measures in order to facilitate and improve the cooperation of all eu staff working for the commission or the eeas in union delegations.
in writing. − the discharge procedure for the eu budget is an important way of ensuring that eu money is spent in full respect for taxpayers. we must ensure that in times of economic crisis, when every member state is called upon to make economic austerity, the eu uses its resources carefully and minimises waste and fraud. this morning, in addition to the report on horizontal questions concerning the financial management and control of the agencies, 24 decentralised bodies were voted on. for 21 agencies, discharge was proposed and for 3 agencies, discharge was deferred: the european medicines agency in london (among others because of the refusal to set up a new payment system), the european food safety authority in parma (due to the need for drastic cuts in expenditure for board meetings, as well as conflicts of interest of staff and board members) and the european environment agency in copenhagen (due to conflicts of interest). we are voting for clarity for those agencies which will not be granted, also with respect for the public money of european citizens.
in writing. - i therefore voted in favour of the report on the granting of discharge to the court of auditors in respect of the special reports in the context of the discharge to the commission, as the analysis carried out by mr fjellner does not reveal any significant criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - the report annexed to the european parliament's discharge notes the lack of success of the 'europarl tv' project and, in view of the low number of direct users, calls on the general secretariat to submit to the commission a proposal to close the project. the report also quantifies the enormous waste associated with maintaining the european parliament's strasbourg seat, whose cost in 2010 is over eur 50 million, while the estimated savings from the definition of a single seat are around eur 180 million. the report also stresses that parliament has already expressed its position in favour of closing the strasbourg office. the waste of public money is never tolerable, but it is even more odious in times of recession such as the present one, when the states are forced to ask for sacrifices from their taxpayers. i expressed my support for the report on the discharge for the 2010 european parliament budget, hoping that the relevant institutions would make an effort to reduce or eliminate this and other waste.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report and therefore in favour of granting the court of justice a discharge, since the report by the honourable member did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and therefore in favour of granting discharge to the section of the budget for the financial year 2010 concerning the european ombudsman, as the analysis carried out by mr sender does not reveal any major criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union, as no criticisms or controversial points have emerged from the report by mr macovei.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution with the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2010. the analysis contained in mr macovei's report did not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge to the european police college, as there were no criticisms or controversial points in mr macovei's report.
in writing. - i have supported the discharge to the community fisheries control agency, since the report by mr macovei did not raise any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution with the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2010. the analysis contained in mr macovei's report does not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2010. the analysis contained in mr macovei's report does not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - with regard to the vote on the european parliament's decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2010, i must depart in part from the voting instructions of some of my colleagues in the epp. i believe that the role of the european food safety authority is of the utmost importance for consumer health and that its work should not be jeopardised by any conflict of interest that may arise if the independence of its members is called into question. i cannot therefore vote in favour of the amendment to the motion for a resolution which would remove the request to the european food safety authority to consider as a conflict of interest the participation of members of the management board, the groups of experts and the working groups or staff, in the present or recent past, in the activities of the international life service institute in the framework of task forces and scientific committees or as conference chairs. the independence of the members of the authority is a fundamental requirement for them to act with the sole objective of protecting the health of citizens, european and non-european.
in writing. - i agree with the remarks made to the previous administration on discharge for the ema budget. at the same time, i would also like to emphasize that the new management of the structure has, in a few months, taken important decisions for a healthy and correct discipline of the agency. an action plan on public procurement has been completed and will be formally adopted by the governing council at its next meeting in june. in addition, a new revision of the policy on the management of conflicts of interest of its scientific committee members and experts was adopted in april 2012, together with a disciplinary procedure for breach of trust for committee members and experts. it will be important to monitor closely the implementation and the concrete results of the new agency directorate, which must have our full support and confidence in order to continue the work of renewal and rehabilitation that the agency needed.
in writing. - i have supported the discharge for the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, since there are no criticisms or controversial points in mr macovei's report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2010. the analysis contained in mr macovei's report does not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency. the analysis contained in mr macovei's report does not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge to the european training foundation, as there were no criticisms or controversial points in mr macovei's report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2010. the analysis contained in mr macovei's report does not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency. the analysis contained in mr macovei's report does not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i have supported the granting of discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, as no criticisms or controversial points have emerged from the report by mr macovei.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eurojust. the analysis of mr macovei's report did not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of europol. the analysis of mr macovei's report did not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i have supported the discharge to the european agency for fundamental rights, since there are no criticisms or controversial points in mr macovei's report.
in writing. - today parliament voted on a motion for a resolution on a very sensitive subject of recent years: maritime piracy. the european parliament, in the light of un security council resolution 1816 of 2 june 1968 and the un convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982, expressed its disappointment at the member states' reduction of the number of vessels for eu operation navfor atalanta from 8 to just 2-3 at the beginning of 2012 and therefore called on the member states to 'make available more naval resources to ensure the success of the mission'. parliament also formally requested the eu's high representative for foreign affairs catherine ashton and national governments to find a solution urgently to free the 191 seamen still held hostage and to secure the release of the seven hijacked vessels. i hope that this vote has given a strong and decisive signal to the member states and the competent european bodies to find more appropriate solutions to a problem which has been affecting ships and civilians from all over the world, especially in recent years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union, frontex. the analysis of mr macovei's report did not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by the european parliament containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss supervisory authority. the analysis contained in mr macovei's report does not reveal any criticisms or controversial points.
in writing. − the 2010 annual report of the european court of auditors should, in my view, be welcomed, as it highlights several critical points, such as the need for reliable statistical data on the extent of fraud and corruption, tax and customs evasion and organised crime misusing union funds. key data, but so far provided in an imprecise manner, preventing the commission from effectively estimating the extent of irregularities and fraud; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the implementation of the new guidelines for the european union's external action. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the issue of illegality in the economic and financial fields is not losing its relevance and importance. financial fraud is widespread in many eu countries and in some cases, 90% of cases reported by the eu in 2010 were labelled as 'suspected fraud'. but the illegal practice of financial transactions also concerns the use of european funds, often mismanaged, inefficient and with strong shadow areas by the regional administrations of the member states. i have spoken on this subject several times and urged the national institutions to take steps to solve the problem. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to impose more stringent controls on transactions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. − with this report we wish to confirm our strong commitment to the protection of the financial interests of the european union by identifying all possible cases of irregularities and suspected fraud reported by the member states, in particular those linked to the risk of double financing in the context of cohesion policy. reporting of irregularities increased markedly in 2010 in all sectors except the pre-accession funds and traditional own resources. we again encourage the european commission to take the necessary steps and to exercise its right of legislative initiative to ensure that member states comply with their reporting obligations and that reliable and comparable data on the levels of irregularities and fraud in the member states can be obtained. the commission's annual reports are often based on imprecise data which cannot be properly compared, and this ends up calling into question the very purpose of the reports. we believe that the commission must take full responsibility for asking the member states to provide all the necessary data in a timely manner and to enable the real extent of the fraud to the community budget to be established.
in writing. − the global economic and financial crisis, and in particular the euro area crisis, require the adoption of special measures to ensure the adequate protection of the eu's financial interests in terms of revenue, which is directly related to the financial interests of the member states. i agree with the rapporteur that it is the commission which must take full responsibility for asking the member states to provide all the necessary data in a timely manner and to enable the real extent of the fraud in the member states to be established. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the 2010 annual report on the protection of the european union's financial interests presents the latest information on irregularities and suspected fraud reported by the member states. the report examines the risk of double funding in cohesion policy. the overall situation is not satisfactory: the fact that the commission's annual reports are based on imprecise data which cannot be compared calls into question the very purpose of the reports. these data should therefore be taken with caution, as they are not entirely reliable. the vote aims to clarify the matter in order to establish the real extent of the fraud in the member states.
in writing. − considering that the single market should be a space that protects the consumer first and foremost and not the interests of large companies, i support the new measures supported in the agreement because i feel that the time has finally come to remove barriers to free competition and open the market to new operators. the high charges currently levied on mobile devices are unjustifiable and contrary to the digital age and free movement we live in, and represent a significant cost for users and especially smes. finally, from 1 july, with the new rules, roaming charges will be drastically reduced and users will be able to travel within european borders free to choose and purchase different services from different operators with clear and transparent information.
in writing. - the report addresses a central issue in the area of consumer rights and freedom of communication and circulation of information and news and therefore meets my favourable opinion. the application of exorbitant tariffs for international roaming services, in a climate of poor transparency and information on costs, is probably due to the fact that the device market has developed very rapidly in relation to the evolution of the operator system and above all the maturation of a modern business culture. the introduction of the euro-tariff is therefore a good thing, not only as a measure to protect consumers' rights, but above all as a benchmark and as an incentive to the market. achieving the policy objective of roaming tariff alignment by 2015, set out in the digital agenda for europe, appears difficult without robust incentive and accompanying measures. in this sense, and in a liberal and market view, greater information and the freedom guaranteed to consumers to choose between several operators will play a driving role, thanks also to the introduction of the possibility for mobile operators to access wholesale roaming services, thus enriching the market in the spirit of competition and competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the excellent report by mrs niebler on roaming on public mobile telecommunications networks because i believe that the solutions it proposes can have a real and immediate positive effect on the daily lives of european citizens and on the strengthening of the free market. in particular, it will reduce the difficulties for all those who move within the european union, who will encounter less difficulty in using mobile telephony, whether it is calling, sending messages or surfing the internet. i am also convinced that the proposals in the report will make a real contribution to the development of a competitive european digital market by making it easier for new and alternative players to access the wholesale market. the decision to lower the tariffs further than the reduction already proposed by the european commission is also particularly welcome, a decision which is certainly in the interests of final consumers in that it corrects some distortions and inconsistencies in the market which have been created over time.
in writing. the proposal aims to increase the level of competition in the mobile roaming segment by means of the so-called structural solution: the user will be able to sign a separate contract exclusively for roaming charges, keeping a single telephone number and a single sim card. i am convinced that the proposed solution will help to establish a more competitive system in this sector, and i have therefore expressed my favourable opinion of this report. i regret, however, that the amendment was not adopted, which would have prevented telephone companies from charging roaming charges to the user for calls within a 10 km radius of the border of the country where the telephone contract was concluded. this amendment would have avoided the unfair application of roaming charges for calls made in municipalities bordering foreign countries, and would also have alleviated the costs of use for crossborder workers, such as citizens residing in italy but employed in swiss companies close to the italian border.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal by mrs niebler on roaming on public mobile communications networks within the european union. today, with the rapid increase in mobility within the union and at the same time with the considerable developments in the telecommunications sector, we cannot ask citizens to bear excessively high costs, particularly in 'data roaming'. i therefore agree with the further reduction of roaming charges, which guarantee full transparency and consumer protection. i believe that these new measures, which will take effect from 1 july 2012 and will be fully implemented from 1 july 2014 with the possibility for customers to choose a different operator than their national operator for roaming services, will encourage more operators to compete by further reducing tariffs.
in writing. - i welcome the desire expressed in this report to make it easier for citizens to move within the union by allowing them to use their national mobile phone number to make calls, send sms or surf the internet at lower prices than those currently in force. this not only benefits travellers, but also contributes to the development of a competitive european digital market, facilitating access to the wholesale market for new alternative operators. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs niebler's report because i believe that the mobile telephony market needs structural reforms to ensure that consumer rights are protected and at the same time to allow for greater competition in the roaming market so that the cost of tariffs can be reduced. among the measures envisaged, the introduction of tariff ceilings is in line with the proposed direction and continues the path of a commitment to streamline the european single market and make it competitive in trade relations with non-eu countries. in view of the exponential growth of roaming services, the adoption of this resolution is a significant act that takes the needs of european consumers and citizens seriously.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this report because for years we have felt that there is still little competition in the telephone roaming market, to the direct detriment of our citizens who are consumers. roaming charges remain excessively high, despite our 2007 measures, and this results in a consequent low usage of roaming services in the eu in clear contradiction to the fundamental principles of an ambitious european digital single market. the commission already set itself the objective of broadly aligning national and roaming charges for mobile telephony services by 2015 in its 2010 digital agenda for europe. in order to increase competition, the commission proposal for a regulation which we voted on today now provides for the introduction of structural measures which we consider appropriate, in addition to the existing tariff ceilings, and which will help to protect consumers adequately. we believe, however, that further efforts are needed in the area of transparency: the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide more comprehensive information on the new opportunities and tariffs that customers will be able to enjoy as a result of the scrapping measures and the more ambitious retail data roaming caps than those proposed by the commission in this case.
in writing. - my vote on mrs niebler's report is in favour. the demand for roaming services is growing exponentially. however, high prices for data roaming services discourage customers from using mobile data services when travelling within the european union. i therefore agree that there should be no obstacles to the use of alternative data roaming services, provided directly on a host network, either temporarily or permanently, irrespective of the existing roaming contracts or agreements with national providers and without additional charges being charged by the latter.
in writing. − in recent years, the number of people moving frequently across europe has increased considerably, for a variety of reasons. one of the biggest inconveniences these people face is certainly the astronomical cost of using mobile phones abroad. the situation has gradually improved in recent years, and the text we have adopted today is a further step in that right direction. the measures provided for in the regulation will lead to a significant reduction in the prices of calls, sms and data roaming. the commission has also proposed that the market should be opened up to more operators, so as to allow for effective competition and thus reduce the monopoly of the few telephone companies currently offering roaming services. initiatives such as these at european level are certainly useful and desirable, with positive repercussions for all citizens and consumers, and without causing any damage whatsoever. it is on actions such as these that the european union should concentrate, that is, on proving itself useful, and for which it can therefore have, as in this case, our full and resolute support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs niebler's report because i am one of those mobile phone users who, when using telephone services outside my country, feel that they are spending too much on national tariffs. the commission's analysis of the proposal for a regulation on roaming on public mobile communications networks in the eu shows that high prices or risks of high costs are due to low competition in this market. the mobile operators are not very numerous and this allows them to keep the costs to users much higher than they would be in the event of increased competition. this is why the eu, in addition to setting tariff ceilings for international incoming and outgoing calls and sms, is planning system structural reforms that will open up international roaming networks to operators in other countries, thanks to regulated wholesale tariffs.
in writing. - the report by mr bradbourn was voted on today at the brussels plenary session. the cost of using mobile phones, smartphones and tablets when travelling within the eu will fall dramatically from 1 july this year, under an agreement with the council approved today. the new rules will also allow customers to buy roaming services from operators other than their national operators and open the market to new competitors, in order to increase competition and reduce prices. the proposal will enter into force on 1 july 2012, replacing the 2007 regulation which expires on 30 june 2012. during the summer holidays, our citizens will be able to benefit from more favourable fares. parliament has been successful in its call for lower prices for consumer roaming, and in particular for data services. in addition, as from july 2014, consumers will be able to choose a provider other than their national provider for roaming services. the new rules will help to open up the market to new players, thus increasing competition.
in writing. - mobile phone roaming charges have long been much higher than domestic calls. the new eu regulation, for which we voted this morning, puts an end to these unfair tariff practices. this is a victory for this parliament, which has always fought for the citizens to have the system of spending on calls abroad reduced to avoid the abuses of the big telephone companies. many of the positive points of this text, first of all that from 1 july 2012, the regulation will also apply in the event that european consumers move abroad outside the territory of the eu. another big news is that from 1 july 2014, consumers will have the option to sign up for a cheaper mobile roaming contract, separate from their domestic mobile contract, while keeping the same number. in short, a very good agreement at first reading following three trilogues with the council, in which european citizens can appreciate the new weight of the european parliament after lisbon in decisions that positively affect their daily lives.
in writing. − the european union plays a crucial role in environmental policy at european level. by signing regulation (ec) no 689/2008, the eu set itself the objective of encouraging and increasing the exchange of information on chemicals placed on the market between the parties to the rotterdam convention and also of implementing the prior informed consent (pic) procedure. this ensures that countries exporting chemicals formally obtain the consent of importing countries before export can take place. the proposal by mr jørgensen seeks to limit the derogations which are usually adopted in opposition to the pic procedure, thus trying to defend the original meaning of the convention. joint action between the commission and the relevant national agencies will also be of great help. such synergy will certainly lead to more accurate and reliable documentation of the possible impacts on human health or the environment resulting from the use of hazardous chemicals in the importing country or another exporting country.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported mr jørgensen's report. transparency in the marketing and therefore export of chemicals between the parties to the rotterdam convention, implemented in the eu by regulation (ec) no 689/2008, is a political and common sense priority that must always be defended in the name of the safety of all european citizens.
in writing. − this regulation provides a clear legal basis for companies trading with foreign countries in the chemical sector, thus contributing to clarity on substances that can be traded within the union's borders, and on labelling conditions for their export. the proposal thus contributes to security within the eu's borders without adding burdens to exporting companies in the sector or making the task of the competent authorities more difficult. as regards substances which, although not banned, require authorisation by the country of destination, this regulation will now make it possible to export such substances to countries which have not responded within the prescribed time limits if there is evidence of use of the same substances in the country of destination for a period of at least five years. despite the commission's efforts, some 30% of previous requests have not been answered, effectively preventing trade in chemicals that are not prohibited. in my view, this regulation represents the right balance between the safety needs of citizens and the consolidation of the european single market, and i therefore considered that i should express my favourable opinion on the report on trade in dangerous chemicals.
in writing. - i think that the amendments are very important. i agree that it is appropriate to promote the exchange of information, the sharing of responsibilities and cooperation between the union and the member states and third countries in the proper management of chemicals. this is despite the fact that third countries are not party to the convention. in addition, technical assistance to developing countries and those with economies in transition must be provided directly by the commission and the member states or indirectly through support for projects carried out by non-governmental organisations. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 689/2008 implements in the european union the rotterdam convention which promotes the exchange of information on chemicals placed on the market between the parties and introduces the prior informed consent procedure. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. the regulation also goes beyond the convention itself in that it covers a larger number of chemicals and applies the informed consent procedure to all countries importing from the eu, including third countries. the commission proposes to increase the possibilities for derogating from the prior informed consent procedure with regard to third countries, thus allowing, under certain conditions, the export of a substance even without having received consent. some of these substances, however, can be very harmful to health and the environment. i therefore consider it too dangerous to apply the commission's proposal in this case and i support the report by mr jørgensen, who has expressed his disagreement. the eu should continue to play a leading role in environmental legislation, ensuring the health of citizens and the environment.
in writing. − the european union is playing a leading role in environmental legislation and should continue to do so. it is the union's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals we export do not cause unnecessary damage to human health or the environment. the current prior informed consent procedure in the field of exports and imports of dangerous chemicals is a mechanism which ensures that countries exporting substances obtain the formal consent of importing countries before export can take place. this vote confirms and strengthens the previous provisions in this area without any distortion. one of the objectives is to make it difficult for producers of chemicals which are banned or subject to strict restrictions in the european union to sell them in europe.
in writing. - i think it is very important to stress the excellent work of clarification of the committees' powers in the casini report, which i shall vote in favour of. the adaptation of the regulation required by these amendments resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has been carried out correctly and will certainly allow the request of the president of the european parliament to be met, which is to provide for a procedure clarifying the procedures for the rapid adoption of a delegated or implementing act.
in writing. - my vote on the wikstrom report is in favour. i agree in particular with the need, in order to promote the collective benefits of reducing the costs of litigation, facilitating access to justice, ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market and ensuring an appropriate balance between freedom of expression and the right to privacy, for the commission to conduct extensive consultations with interested parties, including journalists, the media and lawyers and specialist judges, with a view to proposing the establishment of a centre for the voluntary resolution of crossborder disputes arising from violations of privacy and personality rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of the recommendations on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, as provided for in the rome ii regulation. the basic principle will therefore be supplemented by a predictability clause. in a democratic society such as ours, the right to privacy is a fundamental and sacred right. when personal liberty is violated, there must be a right of appeal. the aim is to ensure both freedom of expression and the right to privacy, while ensuring a balance between the two priorities.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it states that the arab spring has offered the eu the opportunity to match its commercial and foreign policy interests with its core value of human rights. the lisbon treaty defines international trade as one of the three arms of the eu’s external action and requires coherence between foreign affairs and international development policies. it is in the highest interests of the european union to adopt a strategy that is flexible, mutually beneficial, and based on support for democratic transition. in addition, i believe that the call for the reconsideration of the public external debt of the countries in north africa and the middle east to be of fundamental importance. that debt was built by the dictatorial regimes, mostly through the personal enrichment of the political elite and the purchasing of arms, which were often used to oppress their own populations.
in writing. - despite some positive steps, on the whole i do not share the rapporteur's approach and i voted against the report. in particular, i find some of the assessments of the arab spring too optimistic and i do not support the proposal to facilitate the issuing of visas under the pretext of facilitating the mobility of businessmen. in addition, two factors were decisive in my vote against the report: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
in writing. - i express a favourable opinion on the report, emphasising its strategic and organic nature and the careful articulation of the lines of political action, in relation to the instruments currently available. moving from an honest analysis of the mistakes that have prevented decisive action in the past to stabilise the area, to the benefit of tactical visions that are relevant to bilateral and sphere policies, it recognises the need to relaunch the creation of the free trade area as an expression of the eu's external policy action, to involve the eib and the ebrd (with the extension of the mandate), to promote global ftas, to support the construction of legal, administrative, financial and civil frameworks and systems that are relevant to a business-friendly environment and to strengthen the middle class which is the indispensable factor in the difficult equation towards the development of models of complete and stable democracy. the delicate issue of the dubious automatic correlation between free economies and civil rights is also being tackled with courage through the doctrine of 'more for more', which will ensure a more targeted aid policy based on regular and careful verification of results.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it seeks to make a concrete contribution to relations between the eu and all the countries bordering the mare nostrum, in the light of the changed conditions resulting from the arab spring revolutions. on the one hand, the proposal calls for the eu to take increasingly stronger action to encourage international trade and with it all european businesses wishing to invest outside the community's borders, contributing to the establishment of a free and inclusive euro-mediterranean market. on the other hand, the text looks at those countries which after the arab spring started a path towards democracy to try to make these peoples understand that economic development is possible and is the first step towards a better life prospect. finally, i support this initiative because i believe that it is not just a commercial strategy that is an end in itself, but the beginning of a series of initiatives that the eu and the countries of the southern mediterranean will have to be able to pursue and coordinate with ever greater strength, capacity and impact in terms of democracy, development and the well-being of all the citizens involved.
in writing. the arab spring has raised enormous expectations of democratic and economic growth for the countries of the southern mediterranean. these two phenomena will only be able to reinforce each other, creating a virtuous circle from which europe will also benefit. the european union must therefore seize this opportunity to promote development in the countries concerned. economic and democratic growth in the countries bordering the union is beneficial not only to the countries themselves but also to all the member states. by establishing trade relations with these countries, european companies, especially italian ones for obvious geographical reasons, would have an opportunity to recover from the current economic contingency. migration problems would also be alleviated. the eib has a key role to play in this context, as it is responsible for promoting the development of smes in the area. the territorial integration of the area must also be promoted in order to develop the trade within the area, which is currently very limited. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the trade and investment strategy for the southern mediterranean.
in writing. - this report is a document with a strong political content. in my view, it is too premature and optimistic in its assessment of what has happened in some countries in the region, and it ignores the concerns about the escalation of violence and religious fundamentalism. it is also a report of the committee on international trade: the commission should therefore consider the legitimate interests of european companies in the first place, not assistance to third countries. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, especially after the recent events of the so-called 'arab spring', should be able to play a much more ambitious role with the countries of the southern mediterranean, particularly in the economic, entrepreneurial and commercial fields, in order to offer opportunities for exchanges between the social and business communities, and finally to gain political leadership. we believe that european activities in the field of trade, investment and financial support in the region need to be fully coordinated in order to achieve the greatest possible positive impact. this strategy should be implemented in full cooperation with other policy areas in order to create training opportunities for entrepreneurs, promote participation in eu programmes and facilitate the visa procedure. we therefore welcome the commission's 'more for more' principle and believe that the achievements in the field of democratic reforms and individual freedoms must be followed by a process of liberalization in the economic and commercial spheres as well, with a view to dismantling the oligarchy which has traditionally held power.
in writing. - as in the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs of 17 february, i would like to stress the importance of tolerance and economic development, which are essential for long-term political and social stability and for an improvement in the standard of living in the countries concerned. i also believe it is important that countries in democratic transition ensure full respect for all fundamental rights, including freedom of expression, the right to peaceful assembly, freedom of association and freedom of religion, conscience and thought for all citizens, men and women, including members of the coptic christian communities.
in writing. - it is undeniable that the events of last spring have profoundly changed the face of all these countries bordering the southern shore of the mediterranean; it was about coming out of regimes that had been in place for several decades, and often dominated by the presence of a charismatic leader. so we must welcome a change that brings more democracy and participation, but with a careful eye to how different situations are handled. in all the countries where elections were held, which were more or less free, the parties of muslim religious fundamentalist inspiration were very successful, and thus influenced the political and social climate. i therefore think it is perhaps a little too risky to undertake such important initiatives with these countries today, which do not yet offer the necessary guarantees, especially in terms of socioeconomic stability. europe has made a mistake in behaving in a sometimes servile way towards its old leaders, but i would not want it to make a mistake again today by launching enthusiastically into openings, especially commercial ones, which i would not want us to regret any time soon. i therefore decided to vote against this report.
in writing. − the arab spring represents the greatest opportunity for the eu to expand its market and create development in the countries south of the mediterranean in an unprecedented civil atmosphere. but the eu needs an appropriate strategy for investment, for enlargement to trade, for market opening with the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area; it has been discussed for a long time but never put into practice. unfortunately, the eu's foreign policy is still very weak and unable to take strong and common decisions, but the future seems to be improving the room for manoeuvre towards a good integration and exchange policy with the arab spring countries, following the principle of more aid for more commitment, in which we are committed to a bilateral opening of markets for the benefit of the citizens and to the benefit of the economic and social reforms of these countries.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rinaldi's report is a very ambitious document, which allows us to reflect on the effects, but also on the causes, of the so-called 'arab spring'. unlike the rapporteur, however, i think that the view advocated is too optimistic and that many of the measures proposed are more related to the field of development cooperation than to that of international trade. the growing instability and the more extreme political tendencies that are increasingly expressed in countries such as egypt and libya prevent me from sharing the general feeling of confidence in the so-called "arab spring" and the parallelism - in my opinion premature - with the fall of the berlin wall. the principle of 'more for more' should be the cornerstone of european policy towards the mediterranean countries and any increase in european contributions should be conditional on genuine reforms to achieve a deep democracy in these countries. only then will it be possible to discuss any revision of the tariff barriers.
in writing. the text of the report is a highly political document, containing a number of very unrealistic and overly optimistic views on the arab spring, the greatest political transformation since the fall of the berlin wall. the rapporteur strongly criticises the union's weakness on the north african chessboard but fails to mention that the absence and the strong limits of the high representative do not apply only to that area but are prerogatives that highlight the lack of a european foreign policy. i am opposed to the text of the report because it contains some criticisms such as the call for increased european investment bank financing and aid, especially for smes in the southern mediterranean; the commission has also proposed that the visa system be simplified to the benefit of businessmen, as it is for turkey. in view of the fact that the report does not deal with the common commercial policy in the interests of our undertakings, i am voting against.
in writing. - i am firmly opposed to voting for this report. i understand the rapporteur's position, but i do not share his enthusiastically positive view of the outcome of the so-called arab spring. i do not agree with the call for the creation of a free trade area with the countries of north africa, which would seriously damage our textile and agricultural production sector, which is already suffering from an unprecedented crisis. finally, i do not agree with the general tone of the report which focuses exclusively on protecting and promoting the interests of the other party and completely avoids citing and defending legitimate european commercial interests. it sounds like a report from the development committee and not from the international trade committee!
in writing. - while i am in favour of the report we voted on overall, in the sense that the eu and the member states should make greater efforts to support the transition to democracy in the arab spring countries, i voted against two paragraphs which refer to the promotion of trade relations which could harm the european agricultural sector. the case that has caused controversy over the eu-morocco partnership agreement on certain agricultural products is still a recent one. this agreement provides for an increase in goods traded at low customs rates. the risk of a further positive vote on the text in question could in fact form the basis for new agreements which would in the long term prove harmful to our farmers or to other sectors.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the joint resolution. i particularly agree with the call to the epo to exclude from patentability products derived from conventional breeding and all conventional breeding methods, including breeding using advanced breeding technology and markers (smart or precision breeding) and breeding material used in conventional breeding methods.
in writing. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which reaffirms the principle of non-patentability of essentially biological processes for the production of plants or animals and of all products derived from conventional breeding. the commission had brought an action against the grant of patents by the european patent office for tomatoes and broccoli. i believe that intellectual property rights are fundamental and, in this case, vital in order to stimulate the development of new plant varieties and plant-related innovation. the patent allows small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to boost growth and innovation and to help european companies cope with the economic crisis and global competition.
in writing. − maritime transport is one of the cornerstones of economic growth and prosperity on our continent. moreover, over 80% of world trade is carried by sea. today, piracy is a threat to international security and regional stability. tackling the root causes of this phenomenon is a priority for the union. in today's vote the european parliament has reaffirmed the commitment of our institution to combating this phenomenon and has emphasized that under international law, on the high seas, the national jurisdiction of the flag state always applies to ships and the military personnel on board - and therefore also in the case of anti-piracy operations - and no authority other than that of the flag state can order the arrest or detention of a ship, even if it is an investigative measure. it is a fundamental principle of international maritime law, but one that is too often ignored. this is the case of the two italian seamen who are still unjustly detained in indian jails today despite serving on an italian-flagged ship in international waters. we call on india once again to respect these standards.
in writing. − i support this resolution because piracy continues to spread in the indian ocean, particularly off the coasts of somalia. in that country, one of the causes of piracy is political instability. indeed, i believe that an effective approach to countering maritime piracy must include a broader strategy to lift somalia and the whole region of the horn of africa out of poverty and state failure. for this reason, i am particularly concerned about the deteriorating humanitarian situation in the region. the international community should increase its provision of aid assistance and prevent any further worsening of the situation. in addition, third counties and those eu member states that have not yet done so must transpose into their national law all the provisions laid down by the un convention on the law of the sea and the un convention for the suppression of unlawful acts against the safety of maritime navigation.
in writing. - authors such as w. bernstein and niall ferguson explain how large international trade has reorganized itself along sea routes: the european union has a duty to protect its citizens and to protect the environment. according to the csis think-tank, piracy costs the global economy between usd 7 and 12 billion each year, with estimated profits of around usd 250 million from hostage trafficking alone. a threat of this nature, which challenges international law and global stability, by parasitically growing and parasitically flourishing in regions affected by government failure and the penetration of terrorist or criminal organizations, requires a firm and measured response, such as that called for in the joint resolution, which i wholeheartedly support. the framework for international cooperation must be strengthened as a matter of urgency, as the violence of these criminal gangs is triggering individual responses by sovereign states and private operators, in a context of legal and organisational coordination which risks undermining efforts and investments in the fight against piracy and multiplying crises resulting from divergent interpretations of operational protocols and the institutions of international law, such as the one affecting the two italian marines still detained in india.
in writing. - the persistence of impunity for piracy is at odds with the need for a deterrent. despite the european union's transfer agreements with third countries (kenya, seychelles, mauritius) and the bilateral agreements on the return of convicted pirates between seychelles, puntland and somaliland, many pirates and other criminals have not yet been arrested or, after arrest, have often been released for lack of solid legal evidence or the absence of political will to prosecute them. we therefore call for immediate and effective measures to prosecute and punish those suspected of committing acts of piracy .
in writing. - the resolution we discussed this morning was signed by almost all the political groups, which shows that the problem has been tackled in a transversal way. the text reminds us that some 200 seafarers are currently being held hostage by pirates who continue to hijack boats carrying humanitarian aid, merchant ships and fishing vessels for ransom. the attacks are taking place mainly off the coast of somalia and in the western indian ocean, as we are reminded by the un forces currently deployed there. with this resolution we call loudly on the eu high representative to secure the release of the hostages and the ships and to support the establishment of an international tribunal against piracy. the fight against piracy can only be won if the union tackles the root causes of piracy, namely extreme poverty and state failure in the region.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m.)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the priority and the emphasis given by mr busuttil in his report, which i hope this house will adopt by a full majority, in order to strengthen ever more the functioning of the single market, which is absolutely strategic in the development policies of the european union. this would send a strong signal to the individual member states. the latest results of the evaluation framework have shown that member states are increasingly failing to meet their obligations in relation to the transposition of european legislation. for this reason, i agree with my colleague that we need to give greater strength and flexibility to infringement procedures, while at the same time rethinking the role of solvit as an alternative to judicial review. in this respect, i too have reservations about the risk of encountering problems with respect for the principle of subsidiarity if the legal basis of solvit is over-formalised. i therefore believe that the commission should carefully explore all possible solutions with a view to making the portal more operational without running the risk of getting bogged down in legal tricks. finally, i would like to recall that the treaty of lisbon has greatly redefined the role of the european parliament, giving it substantial powers to structure and review european union legislation. in this regard, it is essential, in order to enhance cooperation with national authorities, that the conclusions of the evaluation framework are properly analysed in the structured dialogue between the european parliament and national parliaments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are all convinced of the importance of the internal market, which has even become one of the defining features of the union in the course of the last 20 years. we also believe that the internal market has the potential to make a strong contribution to the growth of individual countries and the union as a whole. for these reasons, and precisely because we share this view, we must pay close attention to certain aspects which have been summarized in today's debate. the first of these aspects is that the real enemy of the internal market today is the crisis. it is the crisis that is calling into question the value of the internal market in the eyes of many citizens and it is the crisis that is taking away the potential of the added value that the internal market represents. therefore, as has been said by many, even in this house, we must focus on the priority of growth, because without growth our work - the work on the internal market - becomes objectively more difficult. the crisis process which is affecting our countries is actually having another negative effect: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as has already been said, we are faced with two problems. the first concerns the delays in transposition by the member states, delays which are not due to the complexity of the measures but are often the result of a wrong policy choice. the other concerns alterations, defects, in the transposition. too often we deviate from the text and the intentions themselves. the differences are very significant in some areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. the instruments needed to give substance to the internal market must therefore be revised and strengthened. the penalties for incorrect or late implementation of decisions were discussed: but i would also like to emphasize the importance of solvit. i am aware of the delicate nature of the legal basis: but an instrument which has proved its worth cannot be left in its present condition. i would now like to make one final point to the rapporteur: i do not understand why, at this necessary stage of difficulties caused by the crisis and external circumstances, the hypothesis of the internal market ombudsman, that is to say, a third party, has been put forward, which would lead to a lengthy discussion, when we need to decide quickly with as much unity as possible, that unity which has been highlighted and which this proposal is likely to call into question.
the rapporteur. - madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very excited to present my own-initiative report on internal security in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i would like to dedicate the approval of this report to all the victims of the mafia, organised crime and terrorism, and in particular to melissa bassi, the young victim of the bombing of a school in brindisi last saturday, in which six other girls were also injured. the motive for the act is still unknown but it is clear that it is part of a growing climate of tension and insecurity caused by the crisis, which organizations or individuals may be tempted to exploit for violent subversion. i also think of the victims of the earthquake in emilia romagna, because natural disasters are also an issue of internal security for the union. the text we are voting on tomorrow underlines the importance of a coherent union strategy on security, and i would therefore like to thank the european commission for the considerable effort it has put into its preparation. as we have repeatedly stressed in the report, security must always be guaranteed in full respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights, which are an integral and inseparable part of this strategy. this is another reason why the role of the eu institutions in defining and implementing the strategy, particularly in the post-lisbon framework, is of particular importance. in this context, an appropriate role for the european parliament is needed, both in the development of the strategy's priorities and in the evaluation phase. this is a role which derives from the full legislative power which parliament has assumed in the field of security. but it is also an essential element in ensuring adequate democratic control which the european parliament must have together with the national parliaments. that is why we will work to establish a regular relationship between the european parliament and the national parliaments - a parliamentary policy cycle linked to the commission's annual report on this matter and ending with an annual parliamentary report on the state of implementation of the internal security strategy. we think that the union must be clear about the extent of the threats to internal security, which it is not today. we therefore ask that europol, with the support of the institutions and other agencies, be able to carry out a comprehensive analysis of the threats to be addressed at union level, based on a more robust and transparent methodology and on the information contribution of the member states. with reference to the five priority objectives identified by the european commission, we argue that this should not be an exhaustive list and that the order of priorities could probably have been better structured. the fight against terrorism, organised crime and the mafia is and must remain for us a key priority of an internal security strategy. the union must not only react, but also anticipate and interpret what is happening in europe: the events in utøya and brindisi have shown us that. we must be able to detect early signs of violent radicalisation, of the disruption of the social climate and of violent extremism. judicial cooperation is the major missing element in the commission's security strategy and this gap must be filled. joint action by the judiciary is vital in europe to combat and strengthen crime and terrorism, as is the fight against corruption and environmental, economic and corporate crime. while we share the emphasis on the fight against cybercrime, we did not see any justification for the commission's choice to include the protection of intellectual property rights among the security priorities. as the acta case shows, this is not a purely security issue, it is a very complex issue, it concerns the rights of individuals and it needs a more in-depth debate. i would like to conclude by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs who contributed to the drafting of this report, as well as the officials of the political groups and my personal assistant.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very pleased to note the considerable interest that parliament clearly attaches to consumer issues. this is evidenced in several own-initiative reports that have been very helpful to the commission in the preparation of the consumer agenda – our new consumer strategy – which we are presenting tomorrow. i would like to thank, in particular, the rapporteur, mrs irigoyen pérez, and the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable work on this latest own-initiative report. your input will contribute towards developing further actions for protecting and strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers. the commission wholeheartedly agrees that it is important to address the vulnerability of consumers, and this will be reflected in the consumer agenda. this initiative will present a coherent, strategic vision for consumer policy for the years to come, focusing on concrete measures that put consumers at the centre of the single market. special attention will be paid to those markets also identified by the parliament report as being particularly problematic for consumers. this includes financial services, energy, transport, telecommunications and the digital market. i would agree with parliament’s view that it is not possible to encapsulate vulnerability in a single definition. instead, we need to identify the various factors that can contribute to consumer vulnerability in specific markets or in particular circumstances. to this end, research and innovation have an important role to play. we are fully committed to mainstreaming the issue of vulnerability into market surveys and consumer studies, including consumer behaviour studies. as also pointed out by parliament’s report, the concept of ‘vulnerable consumer’ has only been introduced relatively recently in european legislation. however, we already have in place provisions that safeguard the interests and rights of groups of consumers that can be considered more vulnerable in a structural sense – children, elderly people and people with disabilities. i can assure you that the commission is constantly looking to improve these measures. i fully acknowledge that we also need to anticipate market developments and innovation to make sure that these also deliver benefits for vulnerable consumers. let me briefly outline just some of the initiatives that the commission has already brought forward and which focus on the specific areas highlighted by the report. these initiatives include: revising the general product safety directive; evaluating the implementation of the consumer credit directive; looking into ways of tackling the problem of over-indebtedness; and assessing the functioning of the unfair commercial practices directive, especially in the digital and financial markets. we will also further monitor and assess the application of the rules of the audiovisual media services directive in order to strengthen their effectiveness, in particular with regard to the protection of minors, across different audiovisual media environments. we are bringing forward a proposal on web accessibility. we have set up a working group across the commission services on the exchange of best practices across member states and long-term solutions and appropriate non-policy solutions that better target vulnerability in the area of energy. finally, the commission is launching guidelines on the application of the regulation on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air. if vulnerable consumers are to be properly protected, member states, businesses and intermediaries, such as consumer ngos, also have an important role to play. there is a need for close cooperation and the active involvement of all the main stakeholders. we must collectively remain constantly vigilant to market and societal changes that increase the risk of exclusion for certain groups or individuals. to conclude, may i say once again that i very much appreciate the valuable report that parliament has produced, and which i know will make an important contribution to the commission’s work.
in writing. membership of the european union provides an element of protection for citizens by establishing an equivalent level of safety for different consumer goods and by introducing measures to protect the general interests of the consumer against unfair business practices, misleading advertising and abusive contractual clauses. however, vulnerable or vulnerable consumers represent a subset of the general category of consumers who require special protection and a specific strategy from the authorities. i believe that the creation of a strategy to strengthen the rights of the most vulnerable consumers can contribute not only to their social inclusion but also to ensuring a more dynamic and competitive internal market. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to improve consumer information so that they are more aware of their rights, but i also stress that practice has shown that the vulnerability of many consumers is in fact due to a lack of understanding of the information they receive or their ignorance of existing complaint and refund practices. i would urge the commission to consider specific legislative measures to ensure adequate protection of vulnerable consumers, which go beyond mere information and are in line with the consumer programme 2014-2020.
in writing. mr president, i would like to comment on the european parliament's motion for a resolution which aims to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers. i think it is important to define clearly who are vulnerable consumers, because if on the one hand those who have a mental, physical or psychological disability are considered to be such, for young or older age, on the other hand we must not forget those who are in a temporary state of vulnerability due to contingent situations. in all cases we must always and in any case provide the consumer with all the means necessary to ensure that he can make the right decisions and stand up for himself. this includes providing all product information in an accessible and understandable way, and always explaining all the options available to the consumer, such as existing complaint and refund systems. a special mention should be made of children and adolescents who are often exposed to misleading and aggressive advertising which should be more closely monitored, for example, advertising for food products intended for children. a final point i would like to make is the importance of easy access to justice for those who are entitled to compensation for damage suffered.
in writing. all consumers are likely to become vulnerable during their lifetime, either because of endogenous causes, inherent in the individual and his cultural and psychophysical condition, or because of exogenous causes, inherent in the objective difficulty of accessing information. this is why we need to give greater and special protection to vulnerable consumers, taking account of their particularities. particular attention should be paid to disabled people and persons with reduced mobility, especially in the transport sector, while passengers' rights should be improved by ensuring transparency of information and fares when purchasing a ticket.
mr president, development is not a luxury, it is a duty. the priority of growth is now recognised by everyone, which was not the case until recently, and my group can only be proud of having always insisted on this issue, even calling for significant changes in the direction of european policies. as has already been said, smes are the backbone of the productive structure. in addition to the urgent measures which i shall mention below, we also need far-sighted measures to address the human capital of young europeans, to tell them that an entrepreneurial culture and spirit is not just a personal adventure, a career or a success, but is also useful to society because it builds on a widespread model of entrepreneurial development, and creates conditions for more equitable and sustainable growth, as mrs krehl has already said, because we want development that is innovative, capable of seizing all the new opportunities together, but also environmentally and socially sustainable. as far as long-term measures are concerned, i would also like to see a reassessment - from the training point of view - of the technical training institutes, which are a real asset in europe and which we have too much neglected. it is a great capital and a great school to get close to technology and science and therefore also the desire to create something new with the fruits of their own ingenuity. as regards the question of resources, which is also a matter of urgent action, it will be indispensable. i am addressing this in particular to the commission, but also to the council, which, together with parliament, will have to decide on the regulation of the structural funds and the coordination of resources. will we be able to use the cosme funds, the financial instruments for smes, the research funds and the structural funds in a complementary way? if we use these resources well, in a complementary way, we will increase their potential for meeting, otherwise we risk a great dispersion. the structural funds are indispensable and have embodied this thematic priority. however, mr commissioner, while recognizing the importance of thematic concentration, i also believe it is important that the regional authorities should be able to contribute to the definition of programmes and choices, because while it is true that many regions need to be guided, there are many others that are quite capable of planning, of expressing a capacity to indicate priorities. the territory is fundamental, because it is on the territory that positive processes are generated, the growth of enterprises, the spirit of new employment, the desire to participate also of all the economic, social and territorial structures. so the territory is the main resource where european policies and local authority policies have to meet. i would therefore like to stress the question of the coordination of resources. finally, as regards the definition of smes - a subject on which the member states will be involved, and therefore the council will also have to give its opinion - i think that not only the structural elements - employment and turnover - but also the quality of small and mediumsized enterprises operating locally but with a global outlook are important. i therefore ask that particular attention be paid to the elements of the very nature of small businesses and the network that supports them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, employing 120 million people, account for more than 90% of the production system. in italy, it's as high as 98 percent. these are often enterprises with fewer than 50 employees, as well as micro-enterprises. we cannot agree with those who are pushing for an increase in the thresholds for mediumsized enterprises, not least because this would further reduce access to community funds. in general, it is necessary to ensure that smes have easier access to the structural funds, especially at this time of crisis, when access to credit is also difficult. the procedures are complicated, too bureaucratic and often discourage potential beneficiaries: the fact that even germany, which is very efficient in using community funds, is lagging behind in using these funds. small and mediumsized enterprises are not b-series enterprises, far from it!
in writing. in a single market without internal borders such as the european one, it is essential to have a definition of smes that is shared by all member states, so that the measures taken to regulate and determine eligibility for aid are consistent and do not create market imbalances. in this respect, it is important that the definitions of 'micro', 'small' and 'medium' enterprises currently in force are not changed: the proposed widening of the threshold within which medium-sized enterprises are classified, from 250 to 1000 employees, would have the effect of forming a highly differentiated group of enterprises within it, placing in the same category persons who are not comparable in size or wealth, inevitably favouring larger enterprises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the many distinguished speakers i have heard from one part of the house do not help us to focus on what i believe is the crux of the problem: the only alternative to this situation is the release of yulia tymoshenko. i don't think there's anything else to add, since anything else of common sense that i've heard is likely to veil or prevent us from seeing what's really going on in that country. i think it is time for all of us to cooperate, including the sporting authorities, because if it is true that the boycott is useless, it is also true that uefa in particular, the organiser of the event, must make its contribution to urging the government in kiev to release yulia tymoshenko. for some years now, uefa has been promoting a campaign called 'respect' to combat all forms of discrimination. i believe that "respect" means respect for the truth that is in the heart of every man and therefore, essentially, the exercise of the activity of justice in the interest of the individual person, whoever that person may be. for these reasons, we must share this battle together, because a strong europe, which demands truth, freedom and justice for yulia tymoshenko, is the europe we want and which i am convinced the ukrainian people also want.
answer to a blue-card question. if i understand the translation correctly, i say absolutely yes, of course, we agree, we want the maximum possible pressure to be applied in these six weeks. in fact, i think it would be a good thing if every single member of this parliament asked the ukrainian authorities to allow them to visit yulia tymoshenko: because it's one thing to give one negative answer, it's another to give 754.
mr president, some colleagues have rightly said that, in the midst of endless bureaucratic procedures and legal battles, there is a risk that we will be taken for tiredness. but we must state clearly and firmly that we are not tired of defending human rights. yulia's daughter, who is here today, is not tired, yulia is not tired, who is fighting along with many other people around the world for her rights, despite being tried by the harsh and unjustifiable prison conditions. the problem is not to open a debate about whether or not to boycott sports; the problem is that ukraine must respect human rights. we can 't accept compromises on people 's skin: we are the european parliament.
mr president, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament has become a fully fledged institutional subject in the field of security policies and therefore has the right to participate actively and decisively in the priorities of the internal security strategy, which is the security model of the union. the report by mrs borsellino identifies five key areas for which concrete action has been proposed and calls for greater judicial and police cooperation between member states to combat organised crime and terrorism. i believe it is particularly important to give strong consideration to the development of prevention policies, which are a fundamental instrument for ensuring an area of freedom, security and justice in europe.
mr president, i voted in favour of mrs borsellino's report, which responds to the need for a multidisciplinary, cross-cutting approach to security. i particularly agree with the emphasis on defining the key areas of the strategy, including the fight against terrorism and organised crime. i do not think it is appropriate to take measures in the area of intellectual property rights, however, as this subject is already the subject of a thorough debate which is still ongoing. in this context, it will be essential to strengthen police and judicial cooperation in the european union through europol and eurojust, with the proper implementation of the strategy. at the same time, it will be necessary to have adequate and consistent legal instruments to facilitate the use of evidence and the conduct of investigations.
mr president, the strategy for the internal security of the union, launched under the spanish presidency, includes five important actions: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, in particular the fight against organised crime, the fight against terrorism, the fight against cybercrime, border security and natural disasters. this is a dramatically timely agenda for my country, which this weekend has experienced two difficult moments, both because of a criminal attack and because of the violence of nature that has struck the region of emilia-romagna. i thank this parliament for the solidarity expressed this morning, and i take this opportunity to thank also the individual colleagues who have expressed their feelings of grief individually to each italian member. i think the work of the libe committee and the rapporteur, mrs borsellino, is very important. i think it is essential that these five points, which are exhaustive in their listing, be better addressed in terms of the implementation of the integrated approach to security policies, in terms of cooperation between the different operational levels and above all in terms of the exchange of information. i voted in favour, although i did not fully agree with the exclusion of the forecasting of natural disasters, including man-made ones. but i was encouraged by what commissioner malmström said yesterday. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work. according to eurobarometer, 40% of europeans want the european union to have better tools to fight organised crime and terrorism. but with the current economic crisis, the resources available to counter these threats are likely to be diminished. the aim must therefore be not to let down our guard, but to strengthen coordination between europol, eurojust and frontex in a continuous dialogue between the european and national institutions. i take this opportunity to commemorate, in the year of the 20th anniversary of the massacres in capaci and via d'amelio, the heroic judges giovanni falcone and paolo borsellino, who, together with their staff, were brutally murdered for their uncompromising commitment to fighting the mafia and organised crime - an example not to be forgotten.
mr president, there is no doubt that the internal security strategies of the european union are certainly a fundamental guideline for the protection of citizens themselves. it is equally clear, however, that if there are not sufficient resources allocated to this sector to ensure the implementation of these important objectives, security will remain, as it has been so far, a possible but not certainly defined option. recent events show that security must be guaranteed not only by considerable resources but also by strong cooperation based on trust between member states. the fight against organised crime and terrorism must be conducted through strong solidarity between member states, protection of the legal economy and a strong response to all transnational threats. a system based on prevention, with border protection, with effective action against organised crime, the mafia and terrorism. it's a challenge we can all win together.
mr president, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon the basis has been laid for the development of criminal law integrated into community law. while it is important to recognize the harmonization of the rules protecting the presumption of innocence, it should be stressed that the law must be extremely clear and easily understandable, so that it is clear to everyone which actions constitute or do not constitute a criminal offence. this applies in particular to directives, which must be reciprocal, of national law. any lack of clarity could lead to divergent interpretations of the law. i therefore believe that only close cooperation between the european institutions on the principles of the methods to be followed can guarantee a coherent and high-quality european strategy in the field of criminal law.
mr president, i welcome the report by mr de jong which seeks to clarify the scope of the new european area of freedom, security and justice in criminal matters. the discussions in the council are proceeding in a restrained manner, with two opposing positions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the council's deliberations are answered by parliament's practical proposals, which are aimed in the right direction: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection. i therefore fully support the request for additional resources to strengthen the legal advisory service in parliament to carry out a thorough and systematic evaluation of the proposals. at the same time, i believe it is essential to promote greater institutional coordination on this matter, with the aim that future initiatives will be based on the full consensus and criminal policy needs of the member states.
mr president, unlike my colleague, i voted in favour of this own-initiative report and i commend the libe committee and its rapporteur, mr cornelis de jong, for the serious approach they have taken. this is a very delicate matter. we are entering a new environment because it is as a result of the treaty of lisbon that we can now begin to speak of european criminal law. the rapporteur has rightly introduced this aspect into the report under consideration, in order to give a methodological indication that would identify the guidelines on which the new european criminal law would be based, acting with great caution, inviting the council, the commission and also parliament to take account of the fact that criminal law is still a great and important restriction of fundamental rights, so it must always be addressed in an appropriate way. i am convinced that this report and this invitation from parliament will be an important guide for those who have to work, especially for the council.
mr president, i agree with mr de jong that the european union should create a common legal culture in the fight against crime, precisely in order to achieve a coherent and uniform criminal strategy. crime is costing our society too much, both socially and financially, and it is increasingly operating on a transnational level, exploiting, among other things, the differences between national legal systems to its advantage. i too have called for and obtained greater harmonization in the fight against child abuse in the text of the directive on the prevention of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography. i therefore believe that it is useful to harmonize the penal system, especially with the primary objective of promoting the practical application of the principle of mutual recognition, without which it is difficult to lay the foundations for a credible and strong strategy to combat crime.
mr president, i supported the de jong report because it takes account first of all of a principle which is also a value: the court of justice has already held that the principle of proportionality is a principle of community law which is based on the particular characteristics and history of each nation and which therefore forms the basis of the substantive criminal law of each member state. protection of fundamental rights, respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and at the same time in a european union that wants to combat organised crime, terrorism and corruption in practice the possibility of recognition of judgments of judicial measures issued by a member state in other member states. the aim of harmonization, with all the conditions set out above, is to define the legal situations common to the member states and the guarantees for the accused, particularly in the case of contradictory evidence, which can constitute the basis for a common criminal law in the european union.
mr president, the european union safeguards the general interests of consumers against unfair business practices, misleading advertising and abusive contractual clauses. but there is no doubt that those consumers who are more vulnerable because of their age, physical or mental health problems or simply lack of information, must be protected more carefully. i therefore voted in favour of mrs pérez's text because i agree that the creation of a strategy for the rights of the so-called most vulnerable consumers contributes not only to their social inclusion but also to ensuring a safer, fairer and more competitive single market.
mr president, mrs pérez' report, for which we voted in favour, deals with the need to consider the development of a strategy to protect the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, in view of the strategy which the european commission and the member states will be called upon to develop in this respect. consumer vulnerability conditions arise from a variety of causes and can potentially affect everyone. for this reason, it is necessary to provide for the protection of this category, alongside that of the consumer in general, and to provide for a targeted strategy in this regard which, taking into account the complex nature of the problem, avoids, on the one hand, the formulation of static and rigid definitions that are unable to take into account all the facets of the matter and the different possible forms of vulnerability and, on the other hand, prevents the creation of new types of discrimination. it is therefore necessary to define specific and targeted protection measures.
mr president, we welcome the report by mr pérez on strengthening the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, and we stress that it is not just the young, the elderly or the sick who are bombarded with information that is not regulated by specific rules, but all citizens. it is essential that the creation of a strategy to strengthen consumer rights does not simply mean the retrospective protection of citizens' rights, both in judicial and social terms, but is accompanied by the application of fair, clear and reciprocal rules to guarantee a safer and more competitive market. the house also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'contract' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
mr president, in the absence of correct and transparent information, we not only make poor choices, but when problems arise, we are reluctant to act or simply unable to complain, to demand answers to our rights and, above all, fair compensation. complaints procedures are too cumbersome and too difficult, especially for the most vulnerable consumers - i am talking about the elderly, children, disabled people, or those who, because of particular social, cultural and economic conditions, are more exposed and more easily manipulated: think of the false and misleading advertising messages. i believe that large companies in particular should commit themselves to being more socially responsible by providing easy-to-understand and easy-to-use complaint or refund systems, especially for online products and services.
mr president, the single market was conceived as a key instrument to put europe back on the path to sustainable growth and full employment. its full implementation could provide an adequate response to overcoming the economic crisis that has been affecting europe and the world for several years now. this requires the correct transposition, application and implementation of the directives that contribute to its functioning. i therefore agree with the proposals put forward by mr busuttil, who stresses the need to implement these directives in order to exploit the economic potential of the single market. the solvit network has proved to be a useful and effective tool in providing clear and timely answers to citizens and businesses, helping to solve problems related to the misapplication of competition rules. its non-judicial nature is perfectly suited to the requirements of economy and efficiency. i therefore hope that solvit will be given greater prominence and publicity among european citizens.
mr president, although there is already a legislative framework on women's rights in turkey, in reality there is still a lot of discrimination, especially in small towns. the rapporteur herself is critical of turkey's progress in promoting women's participation in social, economic and political life. nevertheless, the turkish government is urged to improve and to do its utmost to ensure that all the parameters are met in view of turkey's accession to the european union. i am voting against this report because i believe that a third country cannot even imagine joining the european union when it not only does not respect religious freedom and the fundamental rights of its citizens but even occupies militarily northern cyprus, which is part of the union. as regards religious rights, i would remind you that the catholic church is prohibited from training clergy within the turkish state, and therefore the opening of seminaries and catholic training institutes is prohibited. if this is democracy...!
mr president, despite the progress made by turkey in the field of human rights, i regret to note that violence against women is still one of the most pressing problems in turkey. the official figures from the turkish statistical institute are alarming: 39 percent of turkish women are victims of violence. the establishment of the equal opportunities committee in the turkish parliament and the gender equality committee within the ministry of education is a step forward. the recognition of the rights of turkish women must be an essential part of the negotiations for accession to the european union. women must be given the same right to education, access to employment and access to justice as men. i voted in favour of the report because i hope that parliament's demands will be fully accepted by the european commission.
mr president, despite the recent efforts and progress made by turkey, culminating in the meeting between the turkish minister for family and social policies and representatives of the equal opportunities committee, some important issues on gender equality still remain open. given its status as a candidate country, the existing gap will have to be fully closed in order to reach the levels in force in the european union. i am particularly concerned about the recent figures on the safety and protection of women, which show that 39 per cent of turkish women have been subjected to violence at least once in their lives. i agree with mr bozkurt's proposal, which is to urge the turkish government to take the necessary steps quickly to combat the number of violent incidents. finally, i would like to stress the importance of access to information and education in ensuring gender mainstreaming at all levels of education.
in writing. - i have wanted to support mr martin's report because it not only proposes the adoption of uniform measures between member states to ensure legal certainty in this area, but also reminds the european commission of the need to carry out an impact assessment of the issue of one and two cent euro coins, the cost of which may be higher than their real value.
in writing. − the lack of binding provisions on the issue and circulation of euro coins may lead to different practices in different member states and, consequently, to a lack of legal certainty: the present report seeks to dispel these doubts and i have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i agree with the commission's proposal as amended. i also agree with the rapporteur's reasoning that the reduction in commemorative coins in circulation will lead to a simplification of the administrative procedures involved. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the euro 2 commemorative coins are special coins minted and issued by the euro area member states as legal tender. such coins are usually issued to commemorate anniversaries of historical events or to highlight current events of particular importance. until 2010, 87 variants of the commemorative 2-euro coin were minted. the commemorative 2 euro coins have become collectors' items. the reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation will lead to a simplification of the administrative procedures involved, as well as increasing the value of each commemorative coin by virtue of its rarity.
in writing. − dear mr president, i voted for this report because, thanks to the lisbon treaty, internal security cannot just be an intergovernmental policy any more but needs to include an active role of the ep and the national parliaments both in defining the main priorities and in the evaluation of eu policies. unfortunately neither the member states nor the commission have as yet envisaged any role for parliaments in this process. for this reason i support the call made in this report for a stronger parliamentary dimension when it comes to the internal security strategy. i also believe that freedom, security and justice are objectives that must be pursued in parallel and that, in order to achieve freedom and justice, security must always be pursued in accordance with the principles of the treaties, the rule of law and the union’s fundamental rights obligations. in addition it is important to underline that the key common threats identified in the internal security strategy, in particular organised crime, terrorism, corruption and challenges to border management, have interlinked external and internal dimensions. therefore a coordinated and coherent action in both areas is required for any response to be effective.
in writing. - the most recent attack, of an as yet undefined origin, on the school in brindisi has further strengthened my inclination to vote in favour of this draft report on the 'strategy for internal security', as i believe it is of the utmost importance to consolidate a sustainable european security model, in which security is the necessary prerequisite for the free exercise of rights. this would allow for the creation of a european social context in which citizens feel on a daily basis that they live in an environment made even safer by the operational collaboration between eu agencies dealing with security: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to express my full support for this draft report, as i believe that particular emphasis should be placed on strengthening the integrated border management system, which would have the effect of increasing the interconnection between the internal and external dimensions of security and of improving the control of entry and exit from the territory of the eu. i believe that the strategic priorities identified in the document, although not exhaustive, are appropriate to the achievement of the objectives set and i hope that the eu commission will undertake to prepare annual communications on the state of implementation of the objectives.
in writing. − this proposal aims to introduce a 'european security model' by defining an integrated approach not only to crime but also to natural disasters. some threats to internal security, such as terrorism and organised crime, have become increasingly crossborder in nature over time, and therefore require a strategy that goes beyond the national level or bilateral relations. i think it is essential to stress that this joint action must be carried out in parallel with, and not in place of, the national action, which, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, must nevertheless represent the first level of action. in congratulating the rapporteur, mrs borsellino, on her expertise and commitment in the preparation of her report, i would also like to take this opportunity to remember giovanni falcone and paolo borsellino, two icons of the fight against organised crime who died within a few months of each other exactly 20 years ago, and to wish that this report will contribute to the cause for which they gave their lives. i would like to express my sympathy to the rapporteur on this sad occasion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs borsellino on the strengthening of the internal security strategy of the european union. over the past 30 years, a series of major events such as natural disasters, terrorism and the mafia have shaken public opinion to its core, creating problems for the economic development and political integrity of countries and exacerbating the relationship of trust between citizens and institutions. to regain this trust, we need to create a wider synergy between the social and institutional components by consolidating the area of freedom, security and justice in terms of respect for fundamental rights. it is no longer useful to examine social phenomena in a local context, but we must now extend our view beyond national borders. we must ensure security by maintaining existing strategies and integrating them in an innovative way: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. in italy we all still have vivid memories of the tragedy that struck a high school in brindisi, causing many injuries and the death of a young student. this event has further awakened a sense of insecurity among citizens in the face of organized crime. a community-wide internal security strategy is desirable because it can offer more coordinated and agile action to target the different gangs of crime at european level, thus lowering the threshold of concern of european citizens. such a strategy requires the effective integration of the european agencies and security institutions (europol, frontex and eurojust, among others) and a clear vision of the objectives and critical issues to be addressed. in this respect, i encourage the use of a tool to monitor and control the work of the internal security bodies, so that the efficiency and effectiveness of the results can be improved.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the borsellino report. the european parliament is now a fully-fledged institutional actor in the field of security policies and is therefore entitled to participate actively in the definition of the characteristics and priorities of the internal security strategy and the security model of the european union, as well as in the evaluation of these instruments, including through regular monitoring of the implementation of the strategy.
in writing. − the future model of internal security of the european union aims to protect european citizens, rights and freedoms. the strategy for a 'european security model', which is also being discussed by the new parliamentary committee on organised crime, is inspired by the terrorist and mafia threats against which the eu needs principles and safeguards to create a safe social environment in which citizens are perceived positively in dealing with everyday life situations. the new challenge is the capacity to respond, which this time will have to go beyond the national level and will highlight the importance of joint eu action and organisation.
in writing. - mr president, the report by mrs borsellino is largely acceptable, since it is essential that the fight against terrorism, organised crime and corruption be conducted and coordinated across borders. it is also appropriate to provide for detailed provisions to protect persons at risk of attack and their family members, as well as victims of crime or terrorism. the fight against the dissemination of illegal content on internet sites, with particular attention to child pornography or incitement to terrorist recruitment, should not be forgotten. the problem is that of facilitating free movement, greater solidarity and security at the external borders. while i agree with you on defence and external border controls, i think it is wrong to oblige member states to take in and let in unwanted people out of a pure spirit of solidarity. for these reasons, i shall abstain.
in writing. the initiative report welcomes the work being done to establish an internal security strategy for the european union. in this context, parliament, under the terms of the lisbon treaty, has the right to participate as the main actor in defining the priorities and the future model of internal security. i think the work done by the libe committee and by mrs borsellino is significant. the key areas of european intervention are highlighted here, with the primary objective of achieving greater cooperation at the level of judicial and police bodies between member states to deal with threats from organised crime, terrorism, corruption, cybercrime and natural disasters. i fully agree with the intention to build a common european area of freedom, security and justice and to adopt a unified strategy for all member states. i believe that there is a great need to increase efforts to improve the consistency of information and data on which risk assessments by union bodies are based and to ensure transparency in the methods used and thus achieve the fundamental objective of ensuring the full protection of citizens.
in writing. − the main common threats identified by the internal security strategy of the member states are many: from organised crime to terrorism, from cybercrime to corruption and border management. all these phenomena are interconnected and therefore coordinated and coherent action in both areas is needed for the response to be effective. the vote underlines the importance of a comprehensive approach to a european union security strategy based on a concept of human security anchored in human rights, freedom, democracy, the rule of law, good governance and peace. finally, there is a need for closer cooperation with other international institutions responsible for security strategy, such as nato and the osce.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it clearly defines the principles that should be taken into account when developing an eu approach on criminal law. so far the european union has often developed criminal law provisions on an ad hoc basis, thus creating the need for increased coherence. it is fundamental to acknowledge that an eu criminal law should constitute a coherent legislative system governed by a set of fundamental values in full respect of the eu charter of fundamental rights and of the european convention on human rights. i also believe that the harmonisation of criminal law in the eu will contribute to the development of a common eu legal culture in relation to fighting crime and to a more coordinated action against the most serious crimes. in addition i would like to stress the importance of the establishment of uniform minimum standards of protection at the highest possible level for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings in order to strengthen mutual trust amongst the legal systems of the member states.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty laid the foundations for the development of criminal law integrated into the community law of the union, which was previously the exclusive competence of the member states. despite the importance of this new provision, i am concerned that a number of new union initiatives in the field of substantive criminal law may represent an excessive burden for national administrations. the competent national authorities have, in fact, also as a result of the recent economic crisis, reduced financial resources and, in this context, there is a well-founded risk that the adoption of new legislation will not only not result in better application of criminal law, but also undermine the credibility and effectiveness of the union's criminal law to the clear detriment of citizens. in my view, the european union should take a very cautious approach in drawing up or revising additional criminal law provisions. the european institutions must also agree on the principles and working methods to be applied. in order to facilitate cooperation in the future, i believe it is essential that the european institutions agree on a common framework, which includes a set of principles governing each criminal legal instrument.
in writing. − the adoption of the treaty of lisbon has laid the foundations for greater european integration in the field of criminal law. without prejudice to the prerogatives of the member states, which are not affected by this report, which in fact reaffirms the competence of the states in the main areas of criminal law, a strengthening of the european criminal justice system would help to increase its coherence and, consequently, its certainty. measures such as the strengthening of the legal advice service at the european parliament and the promotion of greater interinstitutional coordination represent a step forward in the process of defining guidelines and core principles at european level, which is essential for the effective adoption of new european criminal law.
in writing. − the harmonisation of criminal law in the european union must help to create a common eu legal culture in the fight against crime. i therefore agree that the harmonization measures should be proposed primarily with a view to promoting the practical application of the principle of mutual recognition. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - if a judicial area, however partial it may be, exists in the union, it is normal, lawful and desirable that it should develop in particular in the area of criminal law, in order to avoid the incongruities we are witnessing and to provide both the states and the union with guidelines aimed at its harmonization. the commission's november 2011 document on criminal policy is valuable to me, as is the study by parliament's services on harmonisation. the matter is delicate and directly affects the sovereignty of states. but there is no doubt that, with great care and foresight, it is necessary to manage this sovereignty in certain areas in common. in the customs sector, for example, it is useful for the functioning of the internal market and for the users themselves. in the case of criminal law, certain anomalies would probably be avoided, which affect hundreds of citizens who have a nationality different from that of the state in which it is practised in a more than singular way: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european arrest warrants issued for citizens who leave germany with their children are not used to further the aims of the treaty. if the european approach to criminal law will help to eliminate these aberrations, it will be a triumph of legal civilization to be hailed with satisfaction.
in writing. the legal system of the european union often and willingly lacks coherence and certainty, especially as regards criminal law. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has seen a major acceleration of european legislation in criminal matters, to the extent that the european commission has already presented a communication in favour of a single european criminal law. the road is still long, of course, but despite the resistance of some member states and procedural difficulties, the process has begun. the european parliament, thanks also to my vote, has given a positive assessment of these first steps and has pointed out the need for an internal legal advisory service to assess and weigh the proposals in balance with the law of the member states.
in writing. mr president, we voted today in strasbourg on the report by mr de jong. the own-initiative report states that in order to ensure a coherent and high-quality european strategy in the field of criminal law, there should be agreement between the three institutions on working principles and methods. the emphasis is on the importance of mutual recognition, the harmonisation of protection rules and the principle of the presumption of innocence. the main areas of criminal law will be the responsibility of the member states, while a 'coordinating authority' should be appointed within the european commission.
in writing. - the report by mr de jong stresses that to ensure consistent and high-quality european legislation in the field of criminal law, it is necessary to reach agreement between the european institutions on working principles and methods. i agree with this own-initiative report because of the serious approach which has been taken in regulating such a delicate policy area. in particular, i agree with the importance attached to mutual recognition, the harmonization of protection rules and the principle of the presumption of innocence. i support the creation of a common european legal culture and a coherent and uniform strategy and the promotion of greater institutional coordination, while leaving the main areas of criminal law to the member states. the law must be extremely clear and easily understandable, which is why i agree that the european commission should appoint a specific coordinating authority.
in writing. the new treaty allows us greater flexibility in adopting criminal law, in all areas of the union, but at the same time obliges us to exercise greater caution both in adopting new rules and in introducing them in such a way as to ensure respect for fundamental rights and the most classical principles of criminal law. i believe that we must avoid the use of the criminal instrument being motivated by purely symbolic reasons and that the reference to the charter of fundamental rights or other international instruments designed to protect them is merely rhetorical. among the operational proposals in the document we voted on this morning, i find particularly interesting the call for the strengthening, through the allocation of additional resources, of the legal advice service at the european parliament, which allows for a systematic study and evaluation of proposals relating to criminal matters and the promotion of interinstitutional coordination for a serious study of the problems on which action is proposed, as well as the evaluation of the effectiveness of the legislation in force and the possible impact of the legislation to be adopted.
in writing. - the protection of the consumer, and even more so of vulnerable categories of consumers, must be considered as the basis of the project for the development of the european project. the text of this own-initiative report proposes practical solutions to safeguard this principle, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - i appreciate and approve the report, emphasising its balanced realism. in areas such as this, there is a high risk of a heterogeneity of aims, for which legislation is enacted in defence of certain categories which end up being even harmed by unexpected effects of the legislation. another risk, which the report has been careful not to take, is that it will end up serving an abstract model of the nanny state in the laudable but illusory prospect of eliminating the risks associated with the exercise of citizenship from our lives. i would stress, among the laudable recommendations, that of consumer protection against bad practices, which unfortunately are widespread in the consumer credit industry, which exploded with the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the defence of vulnerable consumers is morally justified but also in the interest of the maintenance of welfare networks in our countries, which are often called upon to deal with the effects of bad practices to the detriment of the most vulnerable groups.
in writing. − while providing adequate information to consumers is a necessary condition for ensuring their protection, it is not sufficient in itself in some cases, especially for vulnerable consumers. the report therefore urges the commission to take this into account by developing protection instruments for the most vulnerable groups which go beyond mere information. the proposal, adopting the principle that every consumer can, in the course of his or her life, become a vulnerable consumer, avoids giving too rigid a definition of vulnerability. the need also emerges for action in the online sector, identified in the proposal as one of the sectors at risk, where inefficiency in age verification systems exposes underage consumers to misleading advertising, and where social networks allow sellers to promote their products through ad hoc advertising, by offering preferred brands within the social network, leveraging social pressure. i am convinced that the guidelines set out in the proposal will help to identify an effective strategy for protecting consumers, particularly the vulnerable, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i think that this text is entirely acceptable for three reasons. first, it proposes strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers through a horizontal approach, i.e. taking into account the different needs and capacities of consumers, as well as the various circumstances in which they may find themselves acting. secondly, i welcome the principle on which the report is based, namely that all consumers could become vulnerable in their lifetime, for exogenous or endogenous reasons. finally, the concrete measures proposed in the report are aimed at improving the existing tools and their effectiveness, and at providing easily accessible and understandable information to consumers themselves. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - one of the most frequent criticisms of the european union is its democratic deficit, i.e. the lack of opportunity for citizens to influence european decision-making processes. the european parliament, as the only institution whose members are directly elected by citizens, is particularly attentive to these issues and already in 2010 had approved the report on the proposal for a regulation on the citizens' initiative: it is an opportunity for citizens to make their voices heard and to bring issues of interest to the attention of the european institutions. a first example was a few weeks ago, when a committee of citizens from austria, belgium, italy, luxembourg, romania and spain presented an initiative to improve eu exchange programmes.
in writing. − new forms of trade and new ways of accessing products inevitably require a strengthening of consumer rights, particularly for the most vulnerable. as proposed in the report by mr irigoyen pérez, for which i voted in favour, we must take action in this direction, following a broad approach. the strengthening of consumer rights is achieved through improved legislation, more extensive and easily perceivable information campaigns and, finally, through the empowerment of the consumer himself. in this sense, taking into account the results of recent research available to us, particular attention should be paid to the purchasing behaviour of financial products. this is the sector where consumers are most exposed to illegal practices, which must be vigorously combated with a view to greater information protection.
in writing. − i fully agree that the strategy for the rights of vulnerable consumers must focus on strengthening their rights, ensuring that they are effectively safeguarded and enforced, and providing the consumer with all the means necessary to ensure that he can make the right decisions and assert himself, regardless of the instrument used. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - mr president, i support this initiative by mr irigoyen pérez which tackles a key issue for the fair functioning of the market: the protection of the rights of consumers, and in particular of the most vulnerable consumers, against unfair practices. the consumer must be made more aware of his responsibilities by providing accessible and comprehensible information. this is particularly true in sensitive areas such as financial products, and in the field of new technologies and social media, which require a reflection on how to protect the consumer.
in writing. - i congratulate mr pérez on his work. in adopting this report, in the light of directive 2005/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 11 may 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market and article 9 tfeu, it is reiterated that membership of the european union provides consumers with an additional element of protection. the report is based on the principle that all consumers can be considered vulnerable and in particular stresses how the creation of a strategy for strengthening the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, aimed at enabling them to participate in the single market, can contribute not only to their social inclusion but also to the creation of a more equitable and tolerant society, with a dynamic, secure and competitive internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it is necessary to guarantee greater protection for european consumers, especially the most vulnerable and those at risk of unemployment. this requires rapid action, through a specific and far-reaching strategy that takes account of social habits and changes in consumer behaviour that are most at risk.
in writing. - mr president, i am in favour of the text of the report on the strategy for strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers, as they represent a special category of consumers who require special protection and a specific strategy. such vulnerability may arise either from endogenous causes, i.e. whether the consumer's vulnerability is due to temporary or permanent causes related to their nature or physical or mental condition, or from exogenous causes, i.e. caused by external agents such as lack of information. i share the view that strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers implies not only regulatory development but above all efforts to promote the strengthening of their responsibilities by providing accessible and understandable information. i believe that strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers, with particular attention to those with disabilities, such as accessibility in reading for the visually impaired and the use of universally recognised symbols, should be included among the priorities of the new consumer protection programme 2014-2020.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr irigoyen pérez, which seeks to ensure equal treatment and the elimination of discrimination in the internal market and in particular the protection of the most vulnerable consumers, through a targeted strategy consisting of the promotion of programmes to support consumer information and education, the uniform application of standards in all member states, price transparency, particularly in relation to online trade. more stringent rules on advertising, which can be misleading, and greater control over the information provided to the public are also needed to avoid uninformed choices by shoppers. consumers need to be better protected when they make purchases. they need to be given careful protection, guaranteed by the creation of fair, clear and precise information legislation, which also contributes to the creation of a more transparent and competitive single market.
in writing. − one of the objectives of the european union is to protect the general interests of consumers against unfair business practices, misleading advertising and abusive contractual clauses. in a complex social and economic context, there are some consumers who for various reasons prove to be weaker and more vulnerable than others. the areas of high concern for consumers include the financial sector, the food sector, transport, the internet, liberalised markets and access to justice. one of the aims of this vote is to clarify the term 'vulnerable' so that the subject and the regulations relating to it can be harmonised. the creation of a strategy for strengthening the rights of the most vulnerable consumers will contribute not only to their social inclusion and progress towards a fairer and more tolerant society, but also to ensuring a more dynamic, secure and competitive internal market.
in writing. - i am in favour of the report, particularly in its commitment to examine the implications of the circulating one and two cent coin and the planned introduction of the one and two euro banknotes. as part of the spontaneous adjustments that internal markets trigger in response to the crisis, the introduction of one and two euro banknote values could have positive effects for consumers, particularly in countries most affected by the fall in demand and especially in certain sectors, such as food and public services on individual demand. it is now clear that the introduction of the one and two euro coins in some countries has contributed to higher consumer prices and an overvaluation, implicit but no less real in relation to purchasing power, beyond the value fixed in national currency. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the protection of the euro against counterfeiting.
in writing. - i am in favour of the proposal to issue one and two euro banknotes. the issuance of small denomination banknotes, replacing those currently in circulation, would create a better perception of the value of money and would probably improve its use. we must not forget that in a crisis such as the one we are experiencing, the recession in many member states is also marked by a lack of confidence in our european currency and by rising consumer prices. the introduction of the one and two euro banknotes is therefore an important step towards the development of a new monetary policy which also involves these small but significant measures.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. i particularly agree with the amendment calling on the commission to assess the effects of continuing to issue 1 and 2 cent coins and to assess the effects of the possible issue of 1 and 2 euro banknotes.
in writing. - the issue of euro coins has been a topic of discussion since the introduction of the single currency. at the beginning there was talk of withdrawing the one-cent euro coins, but now the debate is on the conversion of the one- and two-euro coins into banknotes. the european parliament's proposal for a regulation is aimed at demonstrating how the changeover from the euro coin to the euro 1 and 2 notes can have a positive effect on the real economy. in addition to the improved handling of the banknote, there would be positive effects on tourism as it would be much easier to get the european union to accept the one and two euro banknote. moreover, this would bring benefits to the member states.
in writing. − the issue of one and two euro banknotes would lead to a reduction in the number of one and two euro coins in circulation but the use of such banknotes would at the same time bring benefits to the member states. firstly, the issuance of small denomination banknotes would increase the handling and acceptance of the euro and would have a positive effect on european tourism, without diminishing the value of the other euro coins in circulation. it would also increase the value of euro collector coins. that is why i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'internal market scoreboard' because i share the need to promote a coordinated and cooperative approach in order to make the internal market work better through the timely and full transposition of community legislation. full transposition would allow the single market to be strengthened and its functioning to be made more efficient. given that the definition of the category of smes (micro, small and medium-sized enterprises) must be economically objective, certain and easy for the administrations of the member states to apply, i welcome the creation, as suggested by mr busuttil, of a body headed by an internal market ombudsman who can operate without political pressure, addressing and resolving possible infringements. i also agree with the reference to solvit, a very useful tool as it allows member states to work together in resolving issues concerning the misuse of internal market rules: i therefore believe that it is necessary to ensure a good level of funding by the member states to ensure that it functions properly. finally, i hope that the new instruments will increase transparency and make it possible to understand the reasons for the failure or partial transposition by those member states which do not adopt community legislation in this field in a timely manner.
in writing. - i have often voted in favour of the annual report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. this year, however, i think that the report contains excessive criticism of the member states, which are too often guilty, in the rapporteur's view, of misapplying the directives. if this is sometimes true, i think it is necessary to point out that this often happens because of complex texts, which are not explicit, which are difficult to apply in the territory or which are strongly opposed by citizens, by categories of workers or by companies. in my view, the present report lacks almost entirely an examination of the social, political and economic reasons for some of the failures to transpose the treaty, and it seems to be irrelevant that the union is made up of countries with completely different constitutional structures and dimensions, some of which see in them a division of legislative competence between the state and the regions. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. − the internal market scoreboard is a useful tool for constant and timely monitoring of the european economic and trade situation. in particular, there is a sense of urgency in having a precise picture of how individual member states transpose european directives. a constant monitoring, annually or biennially, would give us a precise picture of the application of the directives, which would enable the european union to act in the right direction, calling on the member states to fulfil their obligations in a short time. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the internal market at a time of crisis, which some member states are experiencing more acutely than others. i believe that finding and strengthening instruments of cohesion and cooperation such as this is a good way out of the crisis.
in writing. − it is right that the commission should work towards offering citizens and businesses an integrated virtual package of information and support services. i also agree with the importance of direct human contact and the proposal to complement these efforts with a single point of direct contact for citizens and consumers, through the commission's representative offices in each member state. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - this year marks the 20th anniversary of the european single market but unfortunately, despite the adoption of the single market act last year, the report assessing the european single market is not positive. never before have the member states been so far from implementing what the european commission has asked for. the crisis period certainly does not help, but the single market is the real field in which the crisis must be fought. the european parliament therefore hopes that the member states will change their priorities and implement the measures needed to achieve the objectives of the single market as soon as possible, as the european commission cannot be satisfied with its information portals for citizens and businesses.
in writing. - mr president, today in the chamber parliament voted in favour of the report by mr simon busuttil on the evaluation framework for the internal market. the rapporteur states that the internal market is the best instrument the european union has to boost the growth of the member states' economies and that it must be used to the full. in the past, there have been positive trends which unfortunately are not reflected in the latest internal market scoreboard; it is therefore necessary to continue efforts to achieve and exceed ambitious targets: the lowest possible transposition deficit, the shortest possible transposition delays and the highest possible quality of transposition. the commission has also made considerable efforts to set up fast and efficient information portals to ensure that citizens and businesses are in the best position to benefit from the single market, but these mechanisms are often coupled with many others, resulting in duplication of effort and insufficient coordination. the rapporteur therefore believes that the european commission's efforts in this area require greater clarity. a stronger commitment is also required from national institutions and administrations to ensure the correct and timely transposition and application of internal market directives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because the creation of a single market for citizens and businesses requires not only coherent legislation but also strong synergies between different national administrations. this internal market assessment framework is a key instrument for the completion of the single market, as it provides an incentive for european states to transpose directives on the internal market quickly.
in writing. − in an international context of economic crisis, the internal market is the best tool we have to boost the growth of the member states' economies. to date, several instruments have been developed to further encourage the completion of the single market and to assess the contributions of individual member states to achieving this objective. the internal market scoreboard is one such tool and encourages member states to improve the quality and timeliness of their transposition of directives into the internal market. the vote underlines the need to achieve the more stringent transposition and implementation targets. the latest results of the internal market scoreboard have shown that member states are falling further behind in their obligations.
in writing. − the european union is experiencing the worst economic crisis since its inception, a crisis that threatens the very foundations of the european economy. i am convinced that the internal market is a valuable instrument we have at our disposal to boost the growth of the economies of the member states, and i have therefore expressed my support for the text presented by mr busuttil, who supports stricter transposition and implementation targets because the member states are increasingly failing to meet their obligations. in order to achieve the objectives set and to get out of the crisis as quickly as possible, member states cannot put the internal market at the bottom of their priority list. the present difficulties should be a signal that the internal market is being given due consideration and should not be used as an excuse to evade one's commitments to a fully functioning internal market.
in writing. − i support this report because fighting violence against women, including honour killings and forced marriages, remains a major challenge for turkey. i am particularly concerned by the ineffectiveness of the existing remedies and by the lenience of the turkish authorities as regards punishing the perpetrators of gender-based crimes. for this reason it is fundamental that women’s rights and gender mainstreaming are upheld in the new turkish constitution. coordinated action is also needed in the areas of education, work, and representation at national and local level. it is important to stress that economic and social underdevelopment in disadvantaged areas of turkey, as well as problems stemming from immigration, poverty and prevailing patriarchal social structures, aggravate women’s problems and undermine their position.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on a 2020 perspective for women in turkey, as turkey as an eu candidate country must continue its path towards greater participation of women in all spheres of society. there is still worrying discrimination against women in turkey which must be eliminated urgently. i am referring in particular to violence against women, since two or three women are killed every day by their husbands, boyfriends, families or ex-husbands. the turkish statistical institute even claims that 39% of women have been victims of physical violence at some point in their lives! the turkish government must increase the penalties and adopt a zero-tolerance policy towards those responsible for such acts. a further major source of social marginalisation of women in turkey is the high female illiteracy rate, which particularly affects rural areas. it is essential that the turkish government persevere in its campaigns to increase women's participation in primary and secondary education. only in this way will it be possible to facilitate women's participation in the labour market and to increase the female employment rate, which currently stands at 30%.
in writing. - there is an urgent need for a change of mindset in turkey that can transform the patriarchal structure of society into one based on gender equality. the figures on violence against women in turkey and on women in employment are still alarming, to say the least, especially as we are talking about a country that is a candidate for accession to the european union. my vote is in favour of the report.
in writing. - mr president, the situation of women in turkey is still far from being acceptable. beyond some stark disparities in education and employment, the 'moral issue' is still more worrying, namely the consideration of women as such in turkish society. in the countryside in particular, there are still many cases of "honor killings", with the perhaps even more tragic variant of so-called "honor suicides". these impositions, often dictated by religious issues, have nothing to do with reality and the european dimension. the women's issue is just one of the many problematic aspects of turkey, and we cannot understand how anyone can still talk about possible accession to the european union. i hope that the turkish government will work to ensure that the status of women can be brought to a level of effective equality; but this must be kept absolutely separate from any possible negotiations on an accession agreement with the european union, which i still abhor.
in writing. - turkey, like all countries preparing to join the european union, must respect fundamental rights and bring justice and socio-political development into line with the union's parameters. unfortunately, there is still a strong gender gap in this country which does not fit the parameters required by the eu in the 2020 perspective for women in turkey. violence of all kinds and violations of rights are recorded every day against women who are killed, mistreated or humiliated because of a male-oriented mentality and culture that unfortunately the statistics continue to highlight. the european parliament therefore calls for greater state control, a commitment of local policy on the issue of the protection of women for gender equality by facilitating access to education and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because gender equality can only be achieved with the cooperation of all the social partners. in this respect, the turkish government, despite all the initiatives taken to date, still has a long way to go in terms of women's rights. in particular, to achieve the ambitious objectives set, it is necessary to change the current regulatory system by introducing more effective remedies in cases of domestic violence and ensuring greater consistency of judgement by all competent authorities.
in writing. − turkey is a candidate country for accession to the european union and is therefore obliged to respect the union's acquis and to commit itself to areas such as respect for human rights, including women's rights and gender equality, a priority within the europe 2020 strategy. unfortunately, some negative aspects have emerged with regard to the respect of these rights in turkey, a country where violence against women continues to be repeated day after day. i believe that there is a pressing need for a change of course, for a transformation of the patriarchal structure in turkish society and culture. the report calls on the turkish government to take concerted and coordinated action to implement legislative measures on women's rights, education and political participation. turkey does not protect women sufficiently. in fact, there are still countless cases of forced or early marriages. it is essential that we develop a better education of everyone in respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. - in turkey, a legislative framework on women's rights is already largely in place, but it is far from sufficient. to date, the turkish government has passed laws, decrees, strategy papers, national action plans and protocols on important issues such as the prevention of violence against women, the education of girls and the elimination of female illiteracy, and the increase of female participation in the labour market. however, the implementation of this new legislation has not reached satisfactory levels. in addition, the lack of cooperation between the turkish government and civil society has also affected the area of women's rights, which is particularly regrettable, as gender equality can only be achieved through coordinated action by all components of society. in turkey, more legislation and a cultural change are needed to ensure that women have the same rights as men.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs bozkurt's text which, in examining the situation of women in turkey, stresses the need for a change of mentality which could transform the patriarchal structure of turkish society into one based on gender equality in the years to come. this would be of fundamental importance to ending gender-based violence, to increasing female participation and, in general, to empowering women. i also agree with the rapporteur that in order to achieve these objectives and to bring about this change in mentality, a more active role for the media is essential.
in writing. − the citizens' initiative aims to give citizens the same powers of political initiative as the council of ministers and the european parliament. it is an important tool for european citizens to define the issues to be put on the union's agenda. the citizens' initiative complements the direct link between citizens and the union institutions by ensuring that the latter respond to their concrete problems. parliament approved the report on the proposal for a regulation on the citizens' initiative by an overwhelming majority, thus demonstrating the strong consensus surrounding this new instrument of participatory democracy at european level. in this context, i believe that a 'one-stop shop' should be set up to facilitate the practical aspects of exchanges and dialogue with citizens, representative associations and civil society in relation to citizens' initiatives. parliament is called upon to contribute to the achievement of these objectives by using all the means at its disposal to support citizens' initiatives, in particular by organising public hearings. i therefore hope that parliament's rules of procedure will be amended as soon as possible to provide the necessary rules for the organisation and conduct of such hearings.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty introduced the right of initiative for european citizens, extending to them the same rights of initiative as those granted to the parliament and the council. while the power of legislative initiative in the strict sense remains a prerogative of the european commission, the citizens' initiative is an important tool in the hands of european citizens, giving them the power to set the political agenda, and to urge the commission to legislate on matters they consider to be priorities. this report contributes to strengthening this instrument of direct citizen participation by requiring that public hearings on petitions which meet the necessary requirements be organised by the relevant committees, and by creating a single desk to facilitate their practical implementation. i believe that the involvement of citizens in the shaping of the agenda is an integral part of the democratic process and that their inclusion in forms of direct democracy helps to bring the institutions closer to the people and to fill the lack of confidence in the european union, so i have expressed my favourable opinion on the report.
in writing. − one of the most frequent criticisms of the european union is its democratic deficit, i.e. the lack of opportunity for citizens to influence european decision-making processes. the european parliament, as the only institution whose members are directly elected by citizens, is particularly attentive to these issues and already in 2010 had approved the report on the proposal for a regulation on the citizens' initiative: it is an opportunity for citizens to make their voices heard and to bring issues of interest to the attention of the european institutions. a first example was a few weeks ago, when a committee of citizens from austria, belgium, italy, luxembourg, romania and spain presented an initiative to improve eu exchange programmes.
in writing. - the vote on the gurmai report marks an important step in the life of the european parliament and in the process of building the europe of the peoples. following the adoption of regulation 211/2011 on the citizens' legislative initiative, which gave the european parliament the task of organising the public hearing of the promoters within three months of the date of submission of the initiative to the european commission, it was necessary to amend the parliamentary rules to define the procedure. the new rule 197a of parliament's rules of procedure provides that the president of parliament shall instruct the committee responsible for the subject-matter, in conjunction with the committee on petitions, to conduct the hearing. the involvement of the latter confirms the will to guarantee the citizens a free dialogue with parliament, while safeguarding their centrality vis-à-vis the institutional legislators. the hearing phase precedes the actual legislative process and is intended to enable the promoters to explain their initiative and to clarify the reasons for it, in order to provide the executive commission with a better understanding of the matter, which will then have to set out its political and legal conclusions in a communication. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i thank the european parliament, which has given us such a high-level responsibility by a large majority.
in writing. − the citizens' initiative introduced by the lisbon treaty is an instrument of participatory democracy, involving citizens in decision-making and actively contributing to setting the political agenda for a shared path towards a stronger european construction. the fact that we now recognize the possibility of presenting the initiative in a public hearing with the direct participation of the parliamentary committee concerned goes in the direction of strengthening our dialogue with the european citizens at a particularly difficult time for the economy and for the consolidation of political europe. the period we are living in is characterized by the development of eurosceptic movements, and i therefore believe that the initiative is an important step towards bringing european citizens closer, even physically, to their own community institutions. that is why i voted for the amendment to the rules of procedure.
in writing. − the european citizens' initiative, provided for by the lisbon treaty, entered into force on 1 april 2012, as an example of direct democracy and a useful tool for opening up new horizons for european citizens. this initiative puts the citizen at the heart of the european decision-making process. one million citizens from at least seven eu member states can ask the european commission to make a legislative proposal. i am in favour of the text of the report because the legislative initiative, if it is well developed, is a genuine democratic instrument. the european structures and their members are often far removed from their relationship with the territories and citizens: the council and the commission are appointed and only the parliament is elected.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, european citizens have, for the first time, the possibility of making suggestions for new laws directly: the european union's citizens, numbering at least one million and coming from at least one third of the member states, will be able to invite the european commission to submit legislative proposals in its fields of competence. the citizens' initiative is a powerful tool for european citizens to define the issues to be put on the union's agenda. it is introduced in the treaty to give citizens the same powers of political initiative as the council of ministers and the european parliament. the changes which parliament has made in the amendments further improve the system as described above. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
mr president, i take this opportunity to thank mr swoboda for his solidarity with the recent italian tragedies and especially for the significance he has attached to the problems we are dealing with: the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union. it is clear to all of us that the debate in parliament over the past few months on the intergovernmental agreement known as the fiscal compact has proved all the political groups right: i think that all the concerns we expressed have been met. and i regret that the minister denies that there is a gap between rigor and development, because i think that this dichotomy has so far paralysed both our debate and the development of europe. the single monetary policy is not a development policy, just as balanced budgets are a bureaucratic, systematic, but not a movement. the conflict between rigor and development is not suited to the complexity and needs of europe, a fact of which we all seem to be becoming aware, because we are showing a difficulty in moving forward, which is perhaps the result of that lack and poverty of culture which always leads to economic blockade. the next summit must therefore be devoted to a different policy, to the creation of a political europe as well as a fiscal europe. if the commissioner has said that the time has come for action, parliament can only take him at his word. this is an important statement because we have had to create the conditions for this - at least that is how i interpret it, in a positive way, even if others have taken different positions. but we must finally arrive at a plan, at a strategy capable of creating a political europe, which is an essential prerequisite for a europe of development.
mr president, it is now more the figures than the theories that clearly show that the austerity strategy not only does not produce growth and employment but also does not produce the stability, the union of stability which was mrs merkel's main objective, because it is making the public accounts worse rather than better. the need for a change is therefore apparent, and while the measures on which there seems to be a consensus so far are certainly positive, they now appear to be insufficient. the pilot project on project bonds is an important precedent, but its macroeconomic impact is like a drop in the bucket. the strengthening of the eib, which has greater potential, is also not decisive, while better spending of the structural funds will hardly be able to have a significant effect, since even the resources for the payments of the projects already started are lacking today. two essential elements are therefore missing in order to get out of the crisis. the first is a reformulation of the stability pact, which would also have an effect on the fiscal compact without making it necessary to amend it, which would remove part of the investment from the calculation of the structural deficit, perhaps giving the commission a specific role in their definition and activating this withdrawal in the recessionary phases of the cycle. the second is a joint management of a share of the public debt on the model of the proposed debt redemption fund. these two elements must go hand in hand to form a growth and stability package which, to be effective, must have a community character: so a pack and not a compact. the two-pack debate should therefore be used to take timely and effective action on community legislation. i believe that the commission must play a definite role in this process, and must no longer appear as the last defender of an austerity policy which everyone now recognizes as failing.
mr president, in today's debate two words are repeated like a mantra: it's about rigor, but also growth. strictness but also growth. in the meantime, it's going slow. sometimes, however, the mountain - the european commission - gives birth to the mouse, as in the case of the five billion euro project bonds. you heard me! i am not addressing the house here, of course, but the citizens, the european businesses: the european union is the world's largest consumer of energy. five billion euros divided among 27 countries! you figure it out . i'm not an expert on public works, but with a figure like that, i'm told you can barely build a subway system for one city. a little bit for a european-wide infrastructure boost. what if we do something more? what if we didn't just let the member states dictate the rules? what if we tried to make real european bonds? what if we were to separate the great works from the stability pact?
mr president, commissioner, i believe that president verhofstadt has told me in advance: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. exceptional measures! i think that when you spoke of a marshall plan you were certainly not referring to the list you mentioned of the single market, the european patent, the services directive and the project bonds, because i do not think that these are the truly exceptional measures: these are normal measurements at normal growth times. so when you were referring to the marshall plan, maybe -- maybe i didn't sense it -- but you were referring to something else. why are we missing this opportunity to build europe? we did the first part of the fiscal compact right, why don't we do the second part? this is a historic occasion, as well as an opportunity for europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, many of you, ladies and gentlemen, in this important debate have mentioned the single market, which is in this paradoxical situation - i said it yesterday - of being the first victim of the crisis, of unemployment, of the anxiety, despair and anger of many european citizens, and at the same time the first chance or the first asset to get out of the crisis. i would like to make three brief remarks on what we are doing for growth and say, like many others, that we have long felt that a growth initiative must be added to the fiscal and budgetary pact if it is to be a success. we have been saying this for a long time and we are doing it, ladies and gentlemen. i say that to mr. verhofstadt, beyond these walls. not just in the last few weeks, but for many months, the commission has been working and proposing what can be the body of this growth initiative - if the heads of state and government agree - the project bonds, which olli rehn has mentioned, the financial transaction tax, and, as regards the single market, with your support, following the monti report and the louis grech report which you have adopted, 40 proposals which are on the table in parliament and the council of ministers, all of which have a positive impact on the growth of small and mediumsized enterprises or on consumers, the european patent, which the danish presidency is actively supporting, electronic commerce, the simplification of public procurement, risk capital, mobility, social entrepreneurship, vocational qualifications. next week we will be presenting a proposal on electronic signatures, which should be one of the keys to a very concrete issue and which will allow us, perhaps, to save 100 billion a year. the challenge is the digitisation of public procurement across europe, and then the collective management of rights. in a few weeks' time we will then present the second stage of the single market act 2013, with 12 new proposals. ladies and gentlemen, we must act now, vote on these texts with the council and create the conditions, the ecosystem that businesses - especially the smallest and mediumsized ones - and consumers need for their action and for the investments that mr swoboda spoke about earlier, or the green growth that mrs rebecca harms spoke about. i personally think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should go further, recover the audacity of the founders of the economic community of coal and steel at the very beginning of the european project. imagine, for example, a european savings book to collect private savings and direct them towards small and mediumsized enterprises. or laying the foundations of an industrial policy to safeguard the strategic technologies on which we need to preserve our independence. secondly, corien wortmann-kool has spoken about implementation, and i would like to agree with him. we will propose a thorough reform of the governance of the single market, and will monitor the implementation of our texts by the european states in partnership. but at the end of the partnership, there will be zero tolerance, and we will propose to integrate this governance of the single market into the european semester. priority will be given to the proper implementation of the services directive, to give it its full potential, and to the digital single market. a final word, ladies and gentlemen: what broke growth four years ago in europe and in the western world and america? it is the financial crisis - i recommend that we do not have a short memory and we will not have it, neither on the commission's side nor on the parliament's side - these are banks - some of them are irresponsible, and it is clear that some bankers have still not understood anything and have a short memory - a lack of supervision, a lack of regulation and a caricature of liberalism. ladies and gentlemen, i recommend that for successful governance, for successful growth, for successful social market economy that we have a solid and healthy foundation for financial markets that must work for the real economy and not for their own benefit. here too, the commission is implementing its agenda with you with the utmost determination.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank you all for this very rich discussion and i would like to thank the danish presidency for highlighting the importance of the employment package which was announced from this position in the chamber one month ago by president barroso. indeed this package includes a number of initiatives on the demand for labour, on the need for more investment in skills, on the need for balanced labour market reforms and on helping mobility in the european union in order to improve the situation and create jobs in the near future. it also includes action plans in three key areas, including green jobs, and we would like to work hand in hand with the member states in order to implement this as fast as possible. in order to raise awareness of this and put it into practice, we will hold a european employment conference in early september which will be opened by president barroso and president schulz, and closed by president van rompuy. there are many things we need to do in the area of employment, but top of the agenda is of course youth. this is the biggest theme on which we have been working with the danish presidency i.e. the re-launch of the youth guarantee programme. we are very active in reallocating eu structural funds (esf) within the member states which are most affected by youth unemployment in order to have projects that bring results faster and with greater efficiency. together with johannes hahn, we went to the member states on a number of occasions, including greece, where there is a need for action and reinforcement of the implementation of the esf. i can tell you that we managed to speed up the implementation of the structural funds in greece with the help of the taskforce, but also in other countries like romania – just to name a country which is outside the euro area but also in need a lot of assistance in this respect. these efforts are very important. they are necessary but they will certainly be insufficient if we do not make progress with the macro-economic policies. that is why it is very important that progress is made in the coming weeks on the policies that vice-president rehn has championed, for example putting forward the stability bonds which the commission already did last october. thank you for your many comments and proposals that i heard in the discussion, except for one, on the thatcherite deregulation of the employment and social area in the european union. i think this is a kind of obsession that has to be sidelined and we have to continue our work on the commitment to social rights, social cohesion and improving working conditions. we need many reforms in the labour market, for example pension reforms that help people to work longer. however, in order to ensure that, we have to approach this with a readiness to invest more and also protect those people who suffer from the consequences of mass unemployment in the european union at this time. i believe we can continue on this track to ensure that social cohesion prevails and, at the same time, improve competitiveness and overcome the financial crisis.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me briefly thank you for a very substantive debate, and i share your sense of urgency to take decisive action to overcome the crisis and return to growth and job creation. that is our message for tomorrow’s informal summit. i also share the prevailing view of those who say that taking fiscal consolidation on the one hand and sustainable growth on the other, and setting them against each other is really a false debate. instead – in order to overcome the crisis and return to sustainable growth – we need to stay the course on fiscal consolidation while at the same time pursuing structural reforms which will enhance competitiveness, support the creation of more jobs and stimulate public and private investment that will give the needed extra fuel to our economic engine. i am also very grateful for your support for the eib capital increase on project bonds for investment as well as for making more effective use of the structural funds. i also want to thank you for your overall support for a roadmap for stability bonds based on further reinforcement of economic governance – which is something that we have to reflect on and return to very soon and discuss together with the member states and parliament. let me make a point on greece. it is important that the summit will reaffirm its commitment to safeguard financial stability in and integrity of the euro area. we are fully aware of the efforts already made by greek citizens; we encourage greece to continue fiscal and structural reforms while respecting existing commitments which are the best guarantee for a more prosperous future inside the euro area. the recipe of restoring confidence in public finances and undergoing consistent structural reforms does work. countries that have best weathered the storm during the crisis are indeed those that have gone through this kind of adjustment in their recent past. just look at denmark and the netherlands in the 1980s; finland and sweden in the 1990s; germany in the last decade; and today ireland – while still undergoing difficult adjustment – has returned to recovery and growth. the baltic states have recovered and we forecast three and half to four per cent economic growth for them next year. so it is indeed possible through this recipe. chers députés, je voudrais conclure en disant quelques mots sur la qualité et l'essence de la croissance. nous avons accordé – et nous continuons à le faire – une priorité absolue à la croissance et à l'emploi. mais pas n'importe quelle croissance! pas une croissance qui consisterait uniquement à injecter de l'argent public, à accumuler davantage de dettes et à balayer sous le tapis les problèmes structurels de nos économies. il n'y aura pas de croissance soutenable sans des comptes publics assainis et donc soutenables. il n'y aura pas de croissance soutenable sans que soient menées des réformes structurelles et améliorées notre compétitivité et notre capacité à créer des emplois. il n'y aura pas de croissance soutenable sans l'achèvement du marché unique. et, finalement, il n'y aura pas de croissance soutenable sans des efforts supplémentaires pour attirer des investissements privés et publics dans des secteurs porteurs de croissance et d'emploi, comme la recherche et l'innovation, l'énergie et l'économie verte, les infrastructures de transport et de communication. notre agenda a pour objectif de maintenir la croissance soutenable, l'emploi et les investissements.
president of the council. - madam president, i have to speak. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. thank you for a good debate with strong positions and constructive input. it is clear that the desire to increase growth and employment in europe is shared by all. the commitment in the debate today is a clear testimony to this. europe is in a serious economic crisis. public budgets are in deficit, growth is low and unemployment is high. millions of young people in europe look to this parliament, look to the commission, look to the council with the wish that they may use their talents in the real world, and it is our task to give them that chance. we need a response to the crisis. the response must focus on three elements: first, ensuring the stability of european economies; second, restoring growth; and, finally, implementing structural reforms. sound public finances are undoubtedly a key element in bringing member states' economies back on the growth path which is crucial to realising their potential. nevertheless, it must be stressed that a strategy which does not also deliver on growth and jobs will not be able to steer our union out of the crisis. that is why the jobs and growth dimension is so high on the union's and the presidency's agenda. at the same time, however, it is essential that the growth policy which is so necessary is not pursued in a way which creates instability. it is therefore necessary that growth policies do not lead to higher public deficits. it is now up to the member states to show the same commitment to the growth agenda as they have already shown to the consolidation agenda. as i said, increasing growth and jobs is a top priority for the danish presidency. it has been the focus of the european council meetings in january and march, and it is again at this week's extraordinary european council, and it will also be at the last european council under the danish presidency. creating jobs and growth is the danish presidency's top priority. but as several speakers have also pointed out in the debate today, economic stability and consolidation are a prerequisite and not a contradiction when it comes to growth and employment. we are already working on a number of areas and as the presidency we are pleased to be working with the commission and with the european parliament. as far as this parliament is concerned, we already have close cooperation on the internal market, the energy efficiency directive and the eu's multiannual financial framework. now we must see what further steps we can take together. i am also pleased to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that an agreement on project bonds has just been concluded between the european parliament, the council and the commission. it shows that we are in working together. now we have the task on our table. there will be no patience among the unemployed in europe if we do not do everything we can to deliver the goods. we therefore have a common task, regardless of the country we come from, regardless of the party we represent, regardless of whether we are the commission, parliament or the council. let us rise to this task together.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls into question the statements by the council and the commission on the fight against homophobia in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly right to combat discrimination and to condemn all violence: however, there are certain fixed points which we cannot ignore. first, the family, which must be understood as the union of a man and a woman, completed and fully fulfilled by the possible birth of children, which cannot happen between two people of the same sex. two homosexuals can live together freely, perhaps even finding any means of recognition on a voluntary basis. but one cannot speak of marriage, let alone adoption. i don't think you can go against nature itself, which requires a man and a woman to procreate. the rest is just sterile selfishness, which comes to the point of absurdity in some glaring cases, such as that of mother men. everyone has the right to live his or her life in peace, regardless of sexual orientation, with mutual respect. but also in the natural order of things.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i think there was quasi-unanimity among the speakers. homophobia has no place in europe, either in an open form or in a hidden form, in any member state, and that includes those member states which are newcomers to the european family. it has no place against any citizen, wherever he or she may be, in the eu or in those countries outside the eu which want to have relations with us. i made that clear in my speech and i quoted baroness ashton, who regularly intervenes on specific issues in such countries. because i agree with it, i will not repeat everything that has been said. there was, however, one question which i have already answered several times in written form but which i think it is important to answer in this chamber in order to make things clear. it concerns the link between the free movement directive and the mutual recognition of same-sex couples. you know that the free movement directive provides for the right of entry and residence for union citizens and their family members, regardless of the recognition of same-sex marriages or partnerships. such recognition is immaterial for the purposes of the application of the directive. article 24 of the directive ensures that same-sex couples who exercise their right to free movement have the same rights within the scope of the treaty as same-sex couples in the host member state. the mere fact of having exercised the right to free movement does not imply that same-sex couples would acquire more rights in the host member state than those guaranteed to their own nationals in that member state. the question of recognition of marriages does not fall within the scope of the free movement directive. in order to apply it correctly, member states do not need to address the recognition of same-sex unions. they need simply to grant entry and residence to the couples in question and to their family members, including spouses and partners, irrespective of their sexual orientation. this means that all member states are obliged to grant the right of residence to a union citizen’s spouse regardless of sexual orientation, but the host member state is under no obligation to recognise the marriage under its national law. so much for the legal question, but when this legal question is not handled properly what do we do? i shall give you a very concrete example. a polish authority refused to issue certificates on civil status to citizens wishing to marry, or conclude a registered partnership with, a person of the same sex in a member state where this is possible. the commission intervened on the basis that such a stance was incompatible with respect for private and family life, and the polish authorities informed us that steps would be taken to abolish the practice of asking the sex of the future spouse or partner. i give you this example in order to explain what the law says and to explain how, without making a big fuss, we can intervene in the application of the law in a member state in order to have that member state change a practice which is not in accordance with our european rules.
president of the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. if i were to sum up briefly the impressions i take back to the council, i would first of all like to say that, whether we are talking about parliament, the commission or the council, we share the clear view that discrimination must be combated and that the protection of fundamental rights is the foundation of european cooperation. as i have made very clear in the debate today, the council is in full agreement with the european parliament in this assessment and the council naturally respects the principle that no citizen should be discriminated against on the grounds of, for example, his sexual orientation. it is a fundamental principle. it is also of course crucial that all member states take the necessary measures to ensure that the fundamental rights of all eu citizens are respected and enforced not only in law but also in practice. the danish presidency will therefore continue work on the anti-discrimination directive, which could be a very important contribution to implementing the prohibition of discrimination outside the labour market. i have noted the strong and correct statements that have come here today and i would like to promise to take them to the council. i would also like to stress that the danish presidency will focus on protecting the fundamental rights of citizens until the last minute of our presidency and then, of course, onwards as one of the 27 member states. for all of us in this chamber, whether we are members of this parliament, the commission or the council, wherever we come from, whatever our beliefs, whatever our sexuality, we have a common task, and that is to ensure that homophobia, which was a disgusting part of our history, is never, ever allowed to become part of the european future. this is our joint task.
i have received five motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 may 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 302/2009 concerning a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean (com ((2011) 0330 - c7-0154/2011 - 2011/0144 ((cod)) (a7-0449/2011).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to repeat what has already been said by my colleagues, i personally believe that there is a real lack of a european strategy with regard to both the system of controls and the system of implementation of international agreements in the mediterranean. we must not forget that the mediterranean is made up of 8 european countries and 22 non-european countries, and that it is also the subject of great attention, as far as bluefin tuna is concerned, from non-european fishing vessels. i therefore believe that - apart from the fact that the good work done by raül romeva i rueda today might or might not have made further progress - this debate is useless unless a new phase is started, in which the commission is drawing up a genuine proposal on international relations. it is indeed necessary to open a new era of relations on this subject, as on many others concerning fisheries in the mediterranean, by trying to create the conditions and also by providing resources for those countries which apply the same european standards. it would be a good service to tuna, to european fisheries and to the mediterranean in particular.
mr president, since we are discussing a useful management tool, it must be implemented in the best possible way. i would like to focus on some critical aspects of the compromise. first, the creation of sanctuaries and the identification of breeding grounds. researchers and scientific evidence suggest that the creation of sanctuaries in eu areas would only harm the fishing activities of european fishermen and benefit those of other countries; we heard it: 8 to 22 at the very least. it is not worth talking about sanctuaries for species which are highly migratory. certainly, the correct, rational and sustainable management of fisheries makes much, much more sense. in addition, it has long been known that the largest tuna breeding areas are in the mediterranean and the gulf of mexico, within which there are very few areas where tuna do not breed because of oceanographic conditions that are not suitable for the reproductive biology of this species. the length of the reproductive period, as shown by research in recent years, can also vary significantly. as regards fixed tonnage, i would be in favour of the recovery of a proposal already made at the symposium of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icat) in tangier in february 2011: we're talking about an activity that has almost 2,600 years of culture. why not include the existing traditional fixed tonnages in the unesco world cultural heritage?
the european union is not a party to the gatt, but a party to the gatt, and the european union is not a party to the gatt. this seems to be the time of the greatest expansion in the east. europe seems to be reeling from the rise of china, our second largest trading partner, which has seen its exports increase by 39.50% in just under two years. i am sorry that we see china only as a source of problems and not even as an opportunity, as a certain right-wing nationalist and protectionist has been trying to make us see for years. but cooperation between the world's largest economies in the 21st century can only be based on reciprocity, respect for rules, and the fight against illicit phenomena, unfair practices and discrimination, to which we have become accustomed in so many absolutely unacceptable cases. understandably, the pendulum of history is swinging in favour of the emerging countries today: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the european union, words such as 'reciprocity', 'traceability' - which recall words such as 'transparency' and 'quality' - which are now too outdated - must become a precondition for any trade agreement, for any legislative initiative in the context of a renewed multilateral policy. we therefore have a duty to keep our market open, protecting the community's interest against the protectionism of other countries - china - and not just demanding adequate quality standards for goods and services circulating in the european union. this report clearly addresses the issues, it sets out the solutions, it is moving in the right direction and we will support it.
on behalf of the alde group. i am very pleased with this report, drawn up by the vice-president of the liberal, democratic and reformist group, a group which perhaps more than others attaches importance to trade as a means of promoting prosperity and stability in the world. it is a report which, however, lays some of the blame, even provocatively and without delay, right from the first paragraphs, where it is clear that china is on the one hand maximising the benefits of membership of the world trade organisation, while on the other hand it has not yet fully recognised its economy as a market economy. and it is a somewhat anomalous economy, run by the communist party, with tariff and non-tariff barriers, discrimination in many sectors, subsidies, obstacles of various kinds, impediments to participation in public procurement, export credits and much more. what, then, of china, given that this is a country with which we now have a strong commercial and economic interpenetration? the first response of this report is reciprocity, a principle which is rarely practised today and which is not easy to implement, but which is the cornerstone of this report. is it so difficult, in the end, to affirm this reciprocity? in these weeks, with some colleagues - mr daul, president of the ppe group, mr guerreiro, vice-president of the socialist group, mr susta and mr moscardini - we have been drawing up written declaration no 16, which is intended to base our trade policy on a few key words: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of consumers. the case of tibet has already been mentioned. these are not slogans but values which, as this report shows, if put into practice in our trade relations, are the best way forward not only to sustainable trade but also to a less unbalanced and happier china. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. mr martin, i think that china's membership of the world trade organisation is a positive development. it would be a mistake to have it outside the wto because things would be much more complicated. the commission's efforts in the world trade organisation to bring about a number of changes, such as the one on raw materials, have been very helpful and satisfactory. in addition, the wto is certainly supportive of certain anti-dumping procedures. this does not mean, however, that we should not be very cautious in recognising china's market economy status on the one hand and taking advantage of our provisions, such as reciprocity, to show a more firm stance on the other.
mr president, finally, the european parliament today recognizes the serious problems china is causing the internal market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. china is without doubt the main cause of the decline of european industrial policy. our companies are being shut out of the market by the invasion of cheap asian products. so who can relocate, maybe to china, and who can't close. we must not just talk about it, but act on it, and fight against a phenomenon which has too high an economic and, above all, social cost. while china, with a gross domestic product of 8%, is growing, exploiting workers and producing without rules, europe today has as many as 23 million unemployed and tens of thousands more waiting to be laid off. in my area, veneto, companies like safilo, redi and ditec, in the early months of 2012, decided to relocate, leaving thousands of employees at home. ladies and gentlemen, many member states, driven by the hidden powers of finance, have every interest in pretending not to understand what this trade imbalance means for the european economy. we, the citizens of europe, must put the individual and the protection of his work before everything else, by protecting the made in, by fighting against counterfeiting and the relocation of goods and by imposing duties. this is the only way to return the european market to its citizens.
mr president, china is an important trading partner for europe and i am convinced that our relations must be intensified, without neglecting the many and persistent obstacles which prevent fair and balanced trade. a new phase in eu-china trade relations is needed, based on reciprocity and respect for the rules. it is regrettable that china continues to use non-tariff barriers which restrict the presence of european companies on the chinese market, causing additional costs and trade deadlocks. non-tariff barriers, violations of intellectual property rights and respect for human rights remain among the major issues to be addressed. i hope that cooperation with the chinese government will remove the remaining obstacles by 2016, when the world trade organization should recognize china as a market economy.
in writing. i thank mrs de sarnez for her precise and thorough analysis of the subject of trade relations between the european union and china. the results of the indiscriminate opening up of the european market to chinese goods are plain to see: relocations and job losses in europe; china's average annual growth rate of 9 percent, compared with european countries experiencing a dramatic recession; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of counterfeit goods, including the introduction of a new anti-counterfeiting system. in the face of all this, it is necessary to respond by demanding at least some level of reciprocity from china in very sensitive areas such as public procurement and the provision of services.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will try to go so as quickly as possible because we are already over time. let me take as a starter the question of whether i agree that we should have another agreement before we can vote on the ratification of the trade agreement with colombia and peru. i do not think so, because what some are in fact asking the european commission is to restart negotiations with colombia on a roadmap which would probably take another six months. we would then have to translate it into 23 languages, which would take another six months. the agreement was, in fact, concluded with colombia more than two years ago; we now have to come to terms with this. i have outlined in detail the provisions of the agreement, i am not going to repeat them. there is also a very clear human rights clause in the agreement. i expect the european parliament to follow up what happens once the agreement has been ratified; the commission will do the same. we have a lot of possibilities to steer the process; it would not be a good idea to restart discussions at this point. is everything perfect in colombia and peru? it is not, but i have the conviction that much has changed for the better. secondly, the politicians in both countries are serious when they claim that they are trying to resolve sometimes very difficult and long-standing situations. i think we have an honourable partnership with them in this enterprise for the better. i hope that the parliament will give its assent to what we have proposed.
in writing. first of all, i would like to make it clear that i consider this trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru to be fundamental to optimising relations between these countries and the union. however, as the oral question we are debating today shows, there are some issues which give rise to some concern, especially as regards respect for human rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. but threats to the exercise of labour rights and trade union representation still persist. we therefore believe that it would be very helpful if the commission proposed mechanisms to ensure that trade agreements represent real progress in development, human rights and labour. in this respect, the more stringent clauses allowing for immediate and unilateral suspension in the event of serious human rights violations are moving in the right direction. in the case of latin america, this new agreement helps to strengthen our strategic partnership with the region, which is one of the most similar to europe in cultural and political terms.
the agenda calls for the report by anni podimata, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on a common system of financial transaction tax and amending directive 2008/7/ec (com (2011) 0594 - c7-0355/2011 - 2011/0261 (cns)) (a7-0154/2012).
i would inform my colleagues that i do not intend to accept any more 'blue card' questions, since the discussion has been very rich and we must give the minister the opportunity to leave on time.
mr president, from an ethical and moral point of view, a measure which targets those who use finance to enrich themselves in a speculative way is certainly right and proper. the revenue generated should be used to help households and businesses, i.e. the real economy, which is deeply affected by a crisis for which finance is primarily responsible. however, in order to be truly effective, this tax should be applied globally, otherwise it would not be difficult to circumvent and would create potential competitive disadvantages for european markets. an even worse scenario would be that european countries would apply it in a disorderly manner, without common agreement. the united kingdom has already made this clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a scenario that we absolutely must avoid. so either a unanimous consensus is reached or the measure becomes almost useless, losing much of its potential benefits.
mr president, on the subject of taxation of financial transactions, i think we must be realistic and avoid statements of principle. we must put in place a tool that is really effective and that hits the target. i am personally in favour of the idea of ftt and support the plant presented by the commission. i agree with the need for the private sector to help pay for the crisis it has caused. in recent years we have seen state intervention in the private sector, precisely to remedy critical situations caused by unbridled speculation and lack of control. however, care must be taken that this tax is not passed on to the end users, as is often the case. a further doubt concerns the effects on the financing of sovereign debt resulting from the inclusion of securities in the scope of the tax. although sovereign debt securities are exempt from tax, the reduction in liquidity on the secondary market caused by the introduction of the tax affects the price of the securities in the primary market auctions, resulting in an increase in the interest rate that the state must pay to investors. this is a damaging effect for the states with high public debt. the imposition of such a tax at eu level or only at eu level should be a first step but the ultimate objective must remain the introduction of a global tax to stabilise markets and prevent speculation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a big thank you to mrs anni podimata and all the other members who have worked most actively to bring about today's vote. ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has an undeniable logic and is based on a clear, rigorous and fair foundation, if it is possible to use the latter adjective in the economic field. the objections raised today do not affect this logic, and the understandable concerns expressed about possible counterproductive or undesirable effects - if they are raised in good faith - find answers and possible solutions, as the debate of these months has shown. of course, there are ways of avoiding undesirable effects, provided that there is a real will to introduce this tax, because sometimes it seems that the request for caution is made only in order to slow down or block the approval process by predicting economic disasters. and here i turn to my colleague mrs ford: we have already seen these catastrophes because of harmful and reckless speculation. there was also talk of difficulties: but today the citizens of europe are asking the institutions to regain the ability to play their general role and to give the financial world precise rules, because that is our task and that is our sovereignty as a general body. today, therefore, it is a right choice, appreciated by the citizens.
mr president, we still have a long way to go, but today's vote can be an important step towards finally introducing and implementing a financial transaction tax. i understand the prudence, the caution, the need for gradualness expressed by commissioner šemeta and the technical problems rightly mentioned by minister margrethe vestager. but that is precisely why i hope that parliament will express a clear political will, with a large majority, to give impetus and impetus to the initiatives needed to deal with the problems that remain open, especially at council level. we all want to assess carefully the impact of this tax: but it's not right to stir up unfounded fears, which can also lead to contradictory and counterproductive choices. i refer, for example, to the logic of the proposal for exemptions. if you are concerned with reducing the impact of the tax, then it is important to have the broadest possible tax base with a low rate, and not to try to extend exemptions indefinitely. for those who are concerned about the impact on small investors, i would remind them of the progressive nature of the tax, which affects those who carry out more operations and transactions more than others, and it is clear that the competent authorities will have to ensure that no attempt is made to pass any costs on to customers and end users. i hope therefore that parliament will vote in favour of this tax by a large majority.
mr president, today parliament can give the council a strong signal for the introduction of a financial transaction tax. above all, it can send a concrete message to citizens and businesses who ask us what we are doing to deal with the economic crisis. in the name of concreteness, a financial transaction tax will generate almost €60 billion to be spent on development, employment and reducing the tax burden on citizens. but it would also be a message of fairness, because the financial sector too, as our citizens have demanded, must make the right contribution to meet the costs of the economic crisis, it must absolutely do its part. i thank mr podimata for his efforts.
the martin report paves the way for the full implementation of the treaty provision governing a power of inquiry, which is essential to the performance of one of the fundamental functions of a parliament: political control. the treaty of lisbon introduced a special legislative procedure and we therefore hope that in the negotiations both institutions - the council and the commission - will adhere to the spirit of a rule which explicitly entrusts the power of initiative and regulation to parliament, limiting the role of the council and the commission to the simple expression of consent. the martin report draws on the experience of previous temporary committees of inquiry which have highlighted the limitations of this instrument and proposes significant innovations. the informal negotiations with the danish presidency and the commission have resulted in satisfactory compromise proposals which meet some of the member states' and the commission's demands, but which do not restrict parliament's right to hold the community and national institutions to account for the correct implementation of european legislation and to identify any instances of maladministration. some of the formulations may be further specified: but it is essential that we do not compromise on one point, namely that the committees of inquiry must have access to documents and to people. this has nothing to do with judicial tasks but with the full implementation of political law as clearly laid down in the treaties: the right of political control.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the definition of the bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean has been, as you know, a very controversial and debated subject, mainly because of the difficulty of finding the right balance between tuna harvesting and environmental sustainability. with today's vote we are giving a first response to the demands and needs that have emerged at national level through a management tool that ensures the homogeneity of procedures. the next step will be to work hard for a fair distribution of quotas between the various fishing instruments. in this respect, we must not forget, especially in a time of crisis such as the present one, that while it is important to protect biological resources by strengthening measures to protect tuna, it is equally important to ensure that employment levels are safeguarded and that the entire fisheries sector is socially and economically sustainable.
mr president, the management of bluefin tuna fisheries has a long and rather complex history, dating back to the 1990s, and today it is probably the subject most strictly regulated by the european union. although large investments in control have led to increased compliance, concerns remain about overfishing. i therefore supported the romeva i rueda report, which proposes a reduction in the allowable catch rate, increased control and more stringent measures to reduce capacity.
mr president, i voted in favour of the amendments to the regulation on the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks because, as the international scientific community has recognised, this is a species threatened with extinction. the data speak for themselves: since 2009, we have seen a sudden decline in catches in all our seas. it is therefore necessary to act quickly to avoid their total disappearance. the reduction in the average size of tuna is a significant example of the seriousness of the situation, a phenomenon which has been demonstrated with striking clarity in the adriatic sea, in my region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the fish stocks of bluefin tuna in the mediterranean. the controls must be intensified because illegal fishing in all european seas is still too widespread and too frequent. the measures envisaged, such as seizures of illegal vessels and means of transport, must be accompanied by effective and efficient checks carried out by an appropriate number of staff. finally, it is essential to raise the minimum weight of tuna, now set at 30 kilograms, and to prohibit fishing during the breeding season. more can and must be done to save bluefin tuna.
mr president, since 2010, i have supported, together with the italian delegation of italy's securities, the introduction of the tobin tax, this tax on financial speculation. parliament has today voted in favour of the introduction of this tax, which we consider to be a fundamental instrument for empowering the financial sector and bringing it back into the real economy. the introduction of a european system of taxation on financial transactions represents for us the reaffirmation of the prerogatives of democratic politics in the face of the serious anomalies in the functioning of the financial markets, which have been the cause of the economic crisis we are experiencing today. the tax on financial transactions abolishes the exemption for financial transactions and makes speculation as responsible as ordinary citizens, who are also called upon to pay taxes on bread and petrol on a daily basis. with a budget of over 50 billion a year, we are sending a signal today of the european parliament's commitment to a more supportive approach.
mr president, i am one of the large majority who voted in favour of this report and who are in agreement with mrs podimata. i am answering the question put by some colleagues about the reasons which led us to draw up this document, since the majority of member states are against it and approval of any introduction of the financial transaction tax would require unanimity. i would like to say that we did so because we feel it is the duty of the european parliament to give the council a political signal and to do its part. we have done our part by a large majority today. the fact that we voted for it does not mean that we have removed all doubts. i think that the council and the national governments must take account of those elements which are still unclear and which, although they are understandable concerns, do not justify the catastrophisms which i have heard in the course of the debate today. i think it is important to assess both the impact on consumers and the effects that the application of this tax to only a part of the member states could have. i also think it is essential to take action on the regulation of financial markets, which is not clear from the commission's proposal.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution, although i am convinced that the introduction of new taxes is not in itself a solution to the problems, although the introduction of some taxes may lead to relief in other areas. the financial sector is not contributing fairly to the costs of the global crisis at a time when citizens of the european union are facing an increase in both direct and indirect taxation, as well as severe cuts in wages and pensions. the financial sector is still exempt from this for its activities and transactions. i therefore agree with the proposal of my colleague, which calls for a tax of 0.1% on transactions not relating to derivative contracts and 0.01% on those relating to derivative contracts, which would generate revenue of eur 57 billion at the level of the european union. one last note: i would remind you that according to a eurobarometer survey carried out in june 2011, the citizens of the european union overwhelmingly supported the introduction of these measures.
mr president, we hear daily from the newspapers and television, but above all we see with our own eyes on the streets of our cities how deep the impact of the economic crisis is on the citizens of europe. with today's vote on mrs podimata's report, we intend to send a signal. the introduction of a financial transaction tax, in addition to the objective of achieving a future increase in revenue, shows that the european institutions are working daily to deal with the crisis, without forgetting the difficulties that our citizens are experiencing every day.
mr president, we welcome the report which stresses the importance for the union of focusing on a trade policy which does not go in the direction of an open-ended opening of european markets, but which is able to impose fair and shared rules, based on the principle of reciprocity. the union continues to negotiate with countries such as china, which are already market economies, without taking into account problems such as the lack of fairness in public procurement for our european companies, the imbalances in the protection of intellectual property rights, the lack of guarantees in the supply of rare earth raw materials and the absence of controls on the export of counterfeit goods, the growth of which, not coincidentally, goes hand in hand with the increase in chinese exports. the union must ensure, by appropriate trade measures, a policy of investment which is beneficial to our manufacturing industry, which is in danger of disappearing because of europe's inability to defend our economic model. for these reasons, i have tabled, together with my colleagues susta, rinaldi, daul and guerrero, written declaration no 16 so that the commission and the council can begin to reflect on the importance of a sound trade policy for the development of the union, for the defence of employment and for the protection of citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the time has come to build a more balanced partnership with china, based on reciprocity, fair competition, friendship and trust. china's economy has grown a lot in the last 30 years. the european union has benefited from trade and will become the strongest economy by the middle of the century. it is therefore necessary to open a new phase in europe-china trade relations, based on transparency of rules, a partnership of equals and common development. we must therefore encourage china to open its market more to european companies and allow our companies to invest under conditions similar to those which apply to chinese investment in europe. a new partnership, therefore, to enable china to be seen no longer as a cause for concern for our companies, but as a great opportunity, a great opportunity for development and growth for our economy and above all for work and employment.
mr president, i am in favour of the text tabled by mrs de sarnez because it very accurately highlights the trade imbalance between the european union and china, with elements of concern that i share, especially at a time of international crisis such as the one we are experiencing. the relocation of many businesses, encouraged by the lack of labour and environmental legislation, has led to the loss of many jobs in europe at the expense of our citizens. the social costs of the eu-china imbalance are increasingly high. in addition, in the face of the dramatic recession affecting european countries, china's economy is expected to grow by 9 percent a year. it is important that the european commission should first of all work towards achieving a level of reciprocity on the part of china in very sensitive areas such as public procurement, the provision of services, the protection of workers. the european union should be more strict towards third countries which, by unfairly competing with us, penalize european companies.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is a good first step towards putting the obviously unbalanced relationship between the european union and china in order. the european union is founded on a number of fundamental values: for example, we rightly ask our companies to respect the environment. we have attention to workers' rights - especially women's rights - we do not have child labor nor do we have concentration camps where inmates work for free. in china, however, all these protections and rights do not exist, in fact! there are still barriers to european products entering the chinese market and it is obviously produced at lower costs, creating genuine unfair competition with european firms and products. we must create a genuine reciprocity in relations with non-eu countries, so that where there are reasons for imbalances, these are compensated by financial and commercial forms that protect our companies and our products.
mr president, relations between the european union and china clearly show that there are trade imbalances. it is therefore the duty of the european institutions to make every effort to help european companies to emerge from the crisis and to make their access to international markets more equitable. i therefore expressed my support for this report, particularly agreeing with the rapporteur on the application of the principle of reciprocity to relations between the european union and china, in order to allow fair competition on international markets, and calling for greater protection of intellectual property rights.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it expresses many of the concerns that we in the northern league have been supporting for a long, long time. we were perhaps the only ones who understood the damage that the growing chinese economy would do to our businesses and our workers. but when we talk about tariffs on chinese products, we are seen as backward and anti-development. the tragic results of this liberalism are, however, plain to see, and i am particularly aware of them, as i come from prato, the main chinese city in italy. we say 'better late than never', but i am not sure that europe has really realised that it is close to the so-called point of no return. and to think that someone still sees china as a possible lifeline. it would be interesting to actually understand how much european public debt is in chinese hands. perhaps this can be a key to understanding europe's weakness and at least trying not to make these tragic mistakes in the future.
mr president, the available data suggest that there is no such thing as a europe-china imbalance. but there is an imbalance - and many colleagues have already spoken about it - which we are sometimes afraid to mention, and it is not just the trade balance. it is the imbalance of social and environmental dumping that some of these chinese goods are produced with. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. i believe that these questions require more careful and more strategic reflection.
in writing. - it is true that the phenomenon of illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing seems to have been reduced over the last decade, also as a result of the countermeasures adopted by the international institutions. but it is a figure which we can consider incidental and entirely provisional, in relation to the general trend of the market. the pressure on this type of fishery is also high because technological progress puts so-called fads (fish-aggregating devices) in the hands of a wide range of operators for quite negligible amounts. it is reasonable to expect recurrent increases in non-selective fishing, including by iuu fishing, and especially in the mediterranean and atlantic neighbouring areas, which are characterised by political instability and hence by setbacks in the path of economic and civil development. the considerable discrepancy between the volume of fish caught declared and that sold on the market shows, if there was any need for it, that we have not yet achieved a balanced and reasonable system of exploitation of this resource. i am well aware that from a technical point of view we have no alternative to incorporating the amendments to the icaat plan, to which no objections have been raised, but i would like to record my favourable opinion on the report.
in writing. - urgent action is needed to protect atlantic bluefin tuna stocks, which have been drastically reduced over the years. i therefore believe it is of great importance to transpose into community law iccat recommendation 10/04 which aims to increase protection measures for bluefin tuna, especially since the european union is a contracting party to iccat. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to establish a plan for the protection and conservation of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. in recent years, in fact, a massive and poorly regulated fishing activity has threatened to seriously endanger the existence of this fish in our seas. the measures taken are in the right direction, providing for greater regulation and even proposing the creation of protected areas to encourage the re-population of this species. fishing is certainly an important activity which should not be abandoned and which can provide more and more opportunities, also in the immediate future: however, the resources are not infinite, which is why we must act in a planned way, so as not to risk irreparably compromising certain difficult situations, such as the one with bluefin tuna.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because we need a new pact between fishermen and the need to rebuild the bluefin tuna stocks. the new rules on reducing stocks are a good balance between compensating european fishermen, who compete with americans and japanese in the tuna fishery. we call for appropriate transitional processes during the conversion of those european fleets which will have to be phased out in proportion to the reduction in stocks and the fishing season. the measures focus on reducing the size of fishing fleets, but also on extending the closure of the purse seine season and strengthening controls, including those relating to the transfer of tuna from the nets to the cages. the objective must be to strike a balance between the conservation of the species and the socio-occupational needs of the fishermen and the fish processing industry, so as not to jeopardize thousands of jobs, which have already been badly affected by the stock reductions of recent years.
in writing. the aim of the proposal for a regulation just voted is to restore the stocks of bluefin tuna in the mediterranean and eastern atlantic in line with the decisions adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas. the conservation of bluefin tuna is at risk because of the fishing practices of the last 20 years, and we need appropriate rules to facilitate the repopulation of our seas. firstly, we must control the fishing flows and the derogations granted to fishing vessels, and then we must ban tuna fishing during the breeding season. the balance of our seas is more important than trade in a product and that is why this balance must be protected and guaranteed by means of control measures.
in writing. - the report by mr raul romeva i rueda on bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean was welcomed today in the house in strasbourg. the problems of managing bluefin tuna fisheries originated in the 1990s, caused by the introduction of caging to fatten bluefin tuna for the japanese market, and to date, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) seems to be at least one step behind in adapting to current fishing activities, often due to a lack of means or political will to ensure fisheries control. the rapporteur therefore believes that iccat must change its approach and move ahead, make further progress and act more quickly. the eu could, for its part, declare certain areas a protected 'sanctuary' for bluefin tuna and prohibit fishing there during the breeding season and could remove the derogation for its vessels for fishing bluefin tuna weighing at least 8 kg for farming purposes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union must re-launch the protection of bluefin tuna, a predator of the utmost importance for the maintenance of the mediterranean sea ecosystem. the plan for the re-establishment of bluefin tuna in the mediterranean must be consolidated immediately, even if it is to advance the achievement of the objectives set by the european union. breeding areas in international waters could also be declared 'marine protected areas', allowing for a prohibition of fishing during the breeding season.
in writing. the report which is currently before the house provides for the first reading by our institution of the council regulation incorporating a recommendation by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas on the multiannual recovery plan for that stock. the purpose of the proposal we are voting on in this house is to incorporate into union law the iccat recommendation amending the recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. i personally voted in favour of the text, as i welcome the decisions taken by iccat on the reconstitution plan. it is considered a useful management tool. i would like to stress only one point, namely the need to pay particular attention to the correct transposition of what has been decided at iccat, especially in order to ensure a homogeneity of procedures with the other contracting parties.
in writing. - i congratulate mr riquet on his work. in approving this report, parliament, in the light of article 294 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the light of the report of the committee on transport and tourism, has taken a position to ensure the protection of the environment and to learn from past mistakes by proposing to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in european waters by means of the accelerated introduction of double-hulls. parliament also proposed that the deadline for parliament or the council to object to delegated acts adopted by the commission in this field be extended by two months. this would give a total of four months for the necessary procedure to be carried out, ensuring a more realistic deadline for objections.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because the ecological disasters of recent years have made it clear that a substantial change in the existing legislation is needed. the question of the accelerated introduction of double-hull or equivalent technology standards for oil tankers which are now single-hull is of great importance in ensuring adequate protection of the marine and coastal environment. in particular, the risk of catastrophes is particularly acute in enclosed seas such as the mediterranean, which, due to its particular geographical nature, would be irreversibly contaminated if it were lost.
in writing. - too often oil is spilled into the sea as a result of accidents on oil tankers. the environmental damage which has been caused for decades by the lack of double hulls in many ships, which would prevent oil spills, is now intolerable. it is therefore essential that all tankers, even single-hulls, be equipped with double hulls or equivalent technologies to eliminate or minimise oil spillage in the event of accidents. the report was therefore approved.
in writing. − the accelerated introduction of double hull or equivalent technology standards for single hull tankers is a matter of great importance. black tides caused by oil tanker sinkings are a major ecological disaster, a tragedy for marine fauna and flora. the vote will seek to reduce the risk of pollution from oil tankers. the new regulation aims to reduce the risks of accidental oil pollution in european waters by accelerating the introduction of double hulls. in single-hull vessels, the oil in the cargo tanks is separated from the seawater only by a sheet on the bottom and on the side hull. if this plate is damaged by collision or by freezing, the contents of the cargo tanks may spill into the sea and cause serious pollution. an effective way to avoid this risk is to apply a second inner sheet around the load tanks at a sufficient distance from the outer sheet.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this report. it is important to promote sustainable fishing practices by ensuring that all fishing activities carried out under the fisheries partnership agreement meet the same sustainability criteria as those for fisheries in european union waters. it is also right to ask the commission to ensure that european union vessels only catch the excess of the fish stocks concerned that cannot be caught by the mozambican fisheries sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new protocol because the proposed amendments are aimed at improving the management of fisheries control and regulation in mozambique's waters, with the aim of boosting the direct economic income of the country. the project aims to promote responsible and sustainable fishing and to promote a partnership relationship based on respect for the legal and regulatory provisions in force in the european union and in mozambique, in the interest of both parties. the agreement also does not limit the continuity of the european fleet's fishing zone in the indian ocean.
in writing. − one of the objectives of the european union and mozambique is to strengthen economic, scientific and technical cooperation in the fisheries sector and in all related areas, in order to establish a partnership framework that allows the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, in the interests of both parties. after long and difficult negotiations, a new protocol between the european union and the republic of mozambique has been concluded. the protocol, which will be valid for three years, provides for an annual contribution of eur 980 000 from the eu budget, which provides for access for european vessels to mozambique's fishing zone and support for the country's sectoral policy. this vote will help to support both the fisheries sector and the african country, by improving the management of fisheries control and regulation in mozambican waters. we must not forget that there will be an obligation to recruit mozambican seafarers, also to increase the direct economic benefits for the country.
in writing. - on 2 june last year, after lengthy negotiations, a new protocol between the european union and the republic of mozambique was concluded for a period of three years. the agreement which includes clauses on the annual payment linked to respect for human rights is undoubtedly strategic because, given the increase in piracy in other fishing areas further north, it is a viable alternative. the european union and mozambique also aim to strengthen economic, scientific and technical cooperation in the fisheries sector and in all related areas, in order to establish a partnership framework that will enable the development of a sustainable and responsible fisheries policy.
in writing. - i decided to abstain from voting on the report on the common system of financial transaction taxation because i believe that we need to think more carefully about the consequences, both positive and negative. i am convinced that it would be a means of expanding and stabilising the internal market, limiting distortions of competition and the risk of double taxation between uncoordinated national taxes. it would also make a significant contribution to curbing financial speculation, which is the main cause of the current crisis. thirdly, i can only agree that the european union must find a way of raising its own resources with which to operate more freely. on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that not only third countries but even some member states are opposed to the introduction of this tax. this rejection risks not only compromising their effectiveness but also producing adverse effects: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted. i therefore believe that, while approving it in principle, this taxation should only be implemented by a broad agreement between the g20 member states or, at least, between all the states of the union.
in writing. - the introduction of a financial transaction tax would achieve the dual purpose of discouraging very short-term speculation, which often disrupts markets by generating speculative bubbles, and of raising a significant amount of resources, which could help to revive the real economy. the commission estimates that the introduction of a rate of 0.01% on derivatives and 0.1% on other assets would generate revenue of eur 58 billion. the introduction of such a tax would also be an element of fairness, involving the financial markets in the process of consolidating public accounts and discouraging the overly risky investment practices that have led to the current crisis. i therefore voted in favour of this report. i would point out, however, that the european parliament has only the right to express an opinion, since unanimity in the council is required for taxation matters. i hope, therefore, that the resistance of some countries will be overcome and that this instrument of stability will finally be introduced. finally, i would stress that the introduction of this tax at european level could provide the necessary lever for its adoption at global level, which is essential to avoid distortive effects and capital flight from european markets.
in writing. − the global financial crisis that began to emerge in 2008 is, unfortunately, far from over. in fact, in some ways, with the productive sectors now weakened by the past period, it is even more serious and now risks becoming structural in economic systems. on the other hand, the repeated and numerous cases of recurrence of the original causes of the crisis also show that the 'market' is not an abstract entity capable of self-regulating itself efficiently, as the specialists in the new welfare economy would still like to make us believe, but is instead a system managed by a few players worldwide who, often without scruples, attack financial markets, production systems and institutions in the hope of profiting from their weakening, or even their failure. the measures taken by each country are not sufficient to deal with this global crisis. we need to make choices on an equal footing. a financial transaction tax would be useful in mitigating the devastating effects of financial assault, especially if it were adopted globally and if it did not impact government bonds and pension funds. in the expectation and hope that this can happen, it is important that it should start at least in the european dimension. this report and the amendments adopted are geared to this perspective.
in writing. − as we all know, the global financial crisis, which started in 2008, had tragic consequences, with an almost immediate impact on the real economy. the mismatch between consumer demand and supply has also had a devastating effect on employment, thus generating major problems in the labour market. europe needs more convergence, solidarity and responsibility to cope with the crisis. among the various measures to be taken is the strengthening of the stability of the single market through the introduction of innovative strategies aimed at pursuing not only economic but also social growth. i believe that fiscal consolidation through the introduction of a common system of financial transaction taxation can have a positive effect on the single market, and for this reason i voted in favour of mrs anni podimata's report. the positive effects could be many. however, i believe that the very globalised nature of the financial sector and its services now calls for a further step, promoting the introduction of a worldwide financial transaction tax: the eu's 27 member states first, and then the g20, should show cohesion in pursuing this objective.
in writing. - while i agree with the proposal on some points, there are some criticisms which should not be overlooked: the commission has also taken into account the fact that the tax on financial transactions is not a single tax, but a single tax on transactions between member states. secondly, the granting of taxation powers to the european union limits the autonomy of the member states. finally, the sector's volatility, which makes it difficult to legislate on the subject, and the risk that the burden expected from financial institutions may be passed on to citizens, who are already victims of the economic crisis, should not be overlooked. for these reasons, i thought it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. − the global crisis that began in 2008 has called on us repeatedly, and will call on us again in the future, to make unpopular and difficult decisions to get out of it and build a future that can be characterised by growth, development and employment. in this context, however, we cannot forget the role that finance, especially speculative finance, has played in causing and aggravating the crisis. it is also worth noting that the financial sector has never been affected by taxation measures that have limited its scope. but we want to send a clear message with mr podimata's report: the financial transaction tax, introduced with the double rate for government securities and derivatives, aims to create tax revenue that can be used partly to structure the european budget and partly to strengthen the economies of the member states.
in writing. - a financial transaction tax, if it is to be effective, should be applied globally, otherwise it could be easily circumvented and would still risk creating problems for the european financial sector, problems which we do not need today. the greatest danger would be to reduce the already poor liquidity of the markets and thus make it more difficult to access the credit necessary for the survival and development of our enterprises, especially small and mediumsized ones. on the other hand, if properly applied, this tax could be a means of finding resources without always hitting the usual well-known people, that is, those who are already bearing a very heavy tax burden, and who have been overwhelmed by a crisis that has many other responsible parties, including certainly those who have used finance in a reckless manner and for purely speculative purposes. i therefore share the general objectives of the report, but i still have some doubts about the way in which it is to be implemented, which is why i have decided to abstain from the final vote on this report.
in writing. - we voted today in the chamber in strasbourg on the report by mr podimata. parliament has been calling for a financial transition tax (ftt) for almost two years and the commission put forward a legislative proposal in 2011. the eurobarometer shows that 66% of europeans are in favour of a ftt. the ttf is an integral part of the strategy to get out of the crisis. it will bring about a fairer distribution of the burden of the crisis and will not cause relocation outside the eu, as the cost of relocation is higher than paying the tax. the commission also proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the principle of issuance, so that financial institutions established outside the ttf area would also be required to pay the levy if they traded securities originally issued within the zone. the 'residence principle', already provided for in the commission text, should be maintained so as to cover also financial products issued outside the ftz but marketed by at least one institution established within the ftz. an ambitious ftt system will also give us a tool to reduce speculation and to ensure that the financial sector returns to its original role of serving smes and other businesses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure because i believe that the introduction of a common system of transaction tax will also enable the financial sector to make a real contribution to the costs of the crisis. the economies of the member states are paralysed, unable to cope with the social and economic challenges: shifting the tax burden away from labour and productive investment is now a priority. this is why the financial transaction tax can contribute by generating new revenue estimated at up to eur 57 billion with the positive effects of redistributing the tax burden and stabilising markets.
in writing. the world economic crisis remains a concern for the european institutions and the citizens of the union. the creation of a financial transaction tax (ftt) has some aspects of relevance to the union budget. i voted in favour of mrs podimata's report because it once again underlines the constant attention that the european union is paying to the effects of the crisis. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the rules on the application of the ttber. it is important to stress that the ftt must be applied globally and not just at eu level, otherwise there is a risk of financial institutions migrating to markets outside the eu, with the resulting weakening of the european market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive to introduce a financial transaction tax in europe. this is because, in the context of the proposals for the new eu's own resources, the european executive wants to achieve a greater capacity to generate its own tax revenue. the commission intends that two thirds of the total revenue from the financial transition levy should be allocated to the community budget. the commission proposal has a threefold objective which i thought it would be useful to support: generate new tax revenues from the financial sector, counter speculation resulting from high-frequency financial trading (millions of financial orders in seconds handled by suppliers or holders who do not hold liquidity but only handle orders), and improve the internal market by avoiding distortions of competition and the risks of double taxation resulting from the application of national taxes in an uncoordinated manner. a proposal, the one put forward by this parliament, which i believe is necessary to avoid a repeat of the crisis of 2008. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report, supporting in principle the objectives of the commission's proposal.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on this text because china is the most important challenge for eu trade policy and i believe that the commercial relations with this country should be evaluated from a much larger perspective. we must consider that china is not only the world’s second largest economy and the biggest exporter in the global economy, but also an increasingly important political power. in addition, china has in recent decades achieved important social progress and such an improvement in the quality of life for a huge country in such a short period of time is unique in history. in fact, the economic growth in china has lifted half a billion people out of poverty since 1990. i agree on many points stressed by this report, but at the same time there is a lack of strategic consideration. by the middle of the century china will become the world’s most powerful economy and for this reason we need to build a partnership based on mutual respect. in addition it is important to consider the potential benefits for developing countries from deeper economic relations with china and that the growth in trade between all the eu member states and china represents a crucial opportunity for growth.
in writing. − china's economy, which has grown by almost 10% a year for the past 30 years and is predominantly export-oriented, will become the world's most powerful economy by mid-century. the european union, the world's largest trading power and the largest recipient of chinese exports, has seen its trade deficit widen from eur 49 billion in 2000 to eur 168.8 billion in 2010, with weak growth. there is a clear imbalance which must be corrected. despite the progress made by beijing to reduce trade barriers that impede access to its markets, obstacles remain numerous: european companies cannot invest in china under the same conditions as chinese investment in europe. in addition, the lack of protection of intellectual property in china is increasingly deterring european investors. in 2010, 85% of the goods infringing intellectual property rights seized by european customs came from the chinese mainland. in my view, a renewed framework for eu-china relations is urgently needed. europe's approach should be to build partnerships based on the principles of reciprocity and fair competition, which are factors in easing trade tensions and in shared growth.
in writing. − immediately after the ninth china-europe summit in 2006, which some experts consider to be the zenith of bilateral relations to date, relations between the union and the people's republic of china were beset by a series of tensions, particularly around the open issues that the report identifies very precisely. i therefore vote in favour of it. if it is inevitable that countries define themselves in relation to each other in bilateral relations, this is all the more true for china, whose internal tensions are intertwined with foreign and security policy, trade policy, energy policy and monetary policy. the most attentive observers point out that certain positions of the people's republic are often the result of a close comparison of internal positions. today, the rmb, the rare earth policy, the return of state ownership with the restriction of the free enterprise space, are a hot debate ground between different lines of thought. it is all the more important to remember that a clear and determined european position can also contribute to the satisfactory solution of the unresolved issues within the chinese institutions, in a fair and in any case more favourable way to us.
in writing. − the globalisation of the economy has led to the need to strengthen economic cooperation between the eu and other areas of the world. this objective must be pursued not only through some fundamental principles that make trade balances sustainable, which are certainly important, but above all through support for the eu's production systems, to make them more competitive on a world scale. the principle of legal and economic-financial reciprocity and the principle of anti-dumping, with particular reference to the fiscal and social security aspects, must therefore always form an essential part of economic agreements, so that there is a correct approach based on the comparative and competitive advantages of undertakings and production systems. in addition, the principle of reciprocity must also be applied to access to chinese public procurement. finally, the eu should pay greater attention to investments in developing countries, including those made by competitors such as china, in order to better assess the impact of such interventions, both politically and economically, socially and environmentally. i believe that the report we have approved pursues these objectives.
in writing. - i believe that this report is a quality text which shows how well the many issues surrounding trade relations between the european union and china are known to everyone. i share many of the concerns expressed in the report, in particular those concerning counterfeiting, raw materials, the loss of jobs in europe as a result of relocation and the social costs of the imbalance between the european union and china, and consider that a principle of reciprocity must be ensured, especially in very sensitive areas such as public procurement and the provision of services, so i voted in favour.
in writing. − economic exchanges between china and the european union have reached considerable levels in recent years: the eu has become the largest recipient of chinese exports, while china is the eu's second largest trading partner. at the same time, this trade relationship is highly unbalanced in favour of beijing: in 2010, the trade deficit was eur 168.8 billion (compared to eur 49 billion in 2000) and eu foreign investment in china was eur 4.9 billion, while chinese foreign investment in the eu was eur 0.9 billion in the same year. we cannot forget the difficulties faced by european companies when they try to enter the chinese market, due primarily to the lack of transparency of national rules and the protectionist policy of the beijing government which causes heavy dumping, caused by the massive subsidies granted by the chinese government to national companies. the report analyses the reasons for the imbalance and makes a number of proposals to improve the current situation, ranging from the application of the principle of reciprocity to the public procurement market (in order to ensure greater openness in the chinese procurement market) to the protection of intellectual property rights.
in writing. − the strong growth in trade between all eu member states and china is a crucial development tool for both. it is therefore urgent that the european union improve its effectiveness in trade with china through better institutional organisation and the establishment of a coherent position among the member states towards china. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that in a global economy china needs europe as much as europe needs china. today we have voted in favour of a text which seeks to defend the interests of european industry and the craft sector and which aims to establish a new trade agreement based on reciprocity of rules and transparency of trade relations. while the eu remains china's most important trading partner and the main destination for chinese exports, the growth in the trade deficit requires a rebalancing of relations. between 2000 and 2010, the eu's trade deficit with asia increased from 49 billion to 169 billion. china, according to the text voted, has however multiplied unfair practices and barriers to restrict foreign companies' access to its market: unfair trade policies, customs duties, the lowering of the yuan, the absence of intellectual property rights. in view of these restrictions and in order to curb this behaviour, brussels should urgently urge beijing to use the procedure for settling business disputes suggested by the world trade organisation (wto). the eu must also promote cooperation with developing countries to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the new agreement because it reiterates the need to adopt a balanced trade approach towards china, aiming at the creation of partnerships based on elements of sincerity and reciprocity. this could give fresh impetus to fair competition from china, including through the establishment of a body to monitor their investments in european companies. the ultimate aim is optimized coordination involving not only trade issues but also issues such as development, democracy and human rights, while respecting the european vision of social and democratic progress.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report and i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. the problems china is creating in our manufacturing system are well known: for many years now, my political movement, the northern league, has been expressing its concern about the relocation of our companies to asia, about the social dumping which is harmful to our workers and about the risks associated with the arrival on our territory of dangerous products which do not comply with our rules. for these reasons, the european commission should make a serious and concrete effort to demand reciprocity and to put in place a real strategy to defend our production system and to relaunch a real industrial policy.
in writing. - mr sarnez's report is of great importance and timeliness in this period of global economic crisis. i voted in favour of the report because it gives an effective and precise overview of the most sensitive and relevant issues in eu-china relations. aspects such as reciprocity, the protection of intellectual property rights, the transparency of rules, the resolution of trade imbalances and the formulation of rules to create a system of fair, fair and equal competition are all matters of enormous importance to the whole of european industry. given the enormous importance of the chinese market for our companies, this report is a clear signal to the european institutions that these issues should be addressed as soon as possible, so that european companies can enter the chinese market and take advantage of the many investment opportunities it offers.
in writing. - a report which i consider very interesting for the commercial relations between european companies and the asian country. as a result of china's increased development and wto membership, in addition to substantial benefits, the new trade responsibilities for china entail greater obligations to play an active and positive role in the global economic order, including in the international monetary fund (imf) and the world bank group. european companies are very sensitive to the complexity and opacity of the chinese regulatory landscape. ten years after beijing's accession to the world trade organisation (wto), this raises questions about the market access capacity of european companies and, in the long term, about the very attractiveness of the chinese market, which is perceived as both strategic and difficult to penetrate. the adoption of this morning's report sends a strong signal to the other european institutions to address the difficulties that european companies still face in entering the chinese market, which in many ways is a valuable source of investment and development opportunities. the application of the principle of reciprocity to eu-china trade relations remains an important issue, allowing for fair competition on international markets, which marks a step forward in europeans' confidence in the asian giant.
in writing. - if the aim was to adapt the exercise of the right of inquiry to the implementation of the lisbon treaty, without affecting other national supervisory bodies and not, the text can be considered a good summary and as such i find it favourable. it was necessary to promote parliament's work in this field, which would not be redundant but could at the same time be effective in the political control of cases of infringement or maladministration of union law. this need is reinforced by the emergence of figures such as the ombudsman and by the powers now granted to other bodies. in the context of a plurality of these instances - also taking into account the degree of heterogeneity in the member states' legal systems - experience has shown that the instruments available to parliament, deriving from decision 95/167/ec, euratom, ecsc (which was a descendant of the maastricht treaty), are inadequate. the modest activity of the committees of inquiry reveals, in addition to the cautious attitude of members and parliament, which we do not doubt, a picture of substantial impotence. it should not be overlooked that the european citizen probably finds in parliament the only instrument (in this case, the instrument of verification of the administration of community law) which is completely under his control, which is necessarily responsible and easily revocable.
in writing. - the european parliament's right of inquiry was enshrined in the maastricht treaty and strengthened and further defined by the recent entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. a europe which wants to be strong politically and administratively finds in this legal instrument a lever of strengthening of paramount importance. the limitation of the european parliament's right of inquiry, especially in exceptional cases or when the need to set up temporary committees to analyse and propose effective solutions to particular problems becomes apparent, is essential in order to be able to act with a greater degree of cooperation and effectiveness between all the member states and at the european level as a whole.
in writing. - it is essential that a committee of inquiry can rely on concrete evidence gathered in the course of its inquiry. to that end, the committee of inquiry should be able to carry out, within the limits of its mandate, any investigation it deems necessary for the performance of its task, in particular to carry out on-the-spot investigations, to request documents, to summon witnesses, to hear officials and other servants of the union or of the member states and to request expert reports. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this reform proposal because, compared with the old decision, it provides a clearer and more logical regulation as regards the procedures for the european parliament's right of inquiry. the committee of inquiry should be able to carry out any investigation and to summon any person whose testimony or expertise is deemed necessary in order to reach its conclusions on the basis of evidence only. this would allow the european parliament to exercise serious and effective control without disappointing the expectations of european citizens in terms of accountability and good governance.
in writing. - the right of inquiry is an important aspect of parliament's powers of scrutiny. the right of the european parliament to set up temporary committees of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches or maladministration in the application of community law became a primary right with the maastricht treaty. but the treaty did not provide information on the specific powers granted to the european parliament's committees of inquiry, leaving instead the definition of the detailed arrangements to a future interinstitutional agreement. the time has come, therefore, - also with this vote - to define and regulate the matter, especially in the light of the treaty of lisbon, which has changed the institutional balance of the union and strengthened the political stature of parliament.
mr president, south sudan is no longer the good news we hoped for just a year ago. the peoples of both south sudan and sudan know neither peace nor stability, much less development. "walk on your own two feet, walk a long way, find water and share it", is an old adage in the region, but it is not the reality. today, at most, it is a long walk, but if you have not jumped on a mine before, water until the rainy season is not easy to find. it is not easy to help juba, just as it is not easy to influence khartoum. i believe that the action of the commission, the external action service and the european union must be based on certain fundamental principles. first of all, we must keep the attention on this crisis alive, so that it does not risk becoming a forgotten crisis, one of those items on the agenda that has been put on the back burner, without attention from the media and the international community. secondly, we must insist on the full implementation of security council resolution 2046, which is a cardinal point. thirdly, do not be caught off guard by what may happen in khartoum, bearing in mind that former sudanese prime minister sadiq al mahadi has evoked an arab spring perspective for sudan, given the failures of both the administration and bashir himself. let us therefore be vigilant to ensure that what happened in north africa does not happen again. fourthly, as the main donor to south sudan, we should rely more on law enforcement in juba. today, uniformed soldiers in south sudan are arbitrarily seizing land. the splm needs to rebuild its credibility with the public, which will be quite difficult without a minimum of an effective and independent judiciary. this should be the first priority of the european union. i shall conclude quickly with a final point to which we have already drawn attention: the creation of a transparent fund for south sudan to collect the proceeds of oil resources, as happened in timor. you may object that timor was good news: we would like south sudan to be a member of the european union.
mr president, i do not repeat what has already been said about the territorial dispute and the energy issue at the root of the conflict. the consequence is that a consensual separation between the two states, recognised by the international community, is degenerating into a full-scale armed conflict. another tragic consequence is that in the blue nile region, controlled by the splm, sudan is blocking humanitarian aid to 200,000 people. i would like europe, beyond humanitarian aid, to pursue a more committed policy in support of the african union, not so much in opposition to the presence or influence of china in the area but to strengthen the importance of pan-african policy and to make africa belong a little more to africans. we know how great the danger of economic and financial neo-colonialism is on the continent.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr gerbrandy on this report, which recognises the high level of ambition needed to achieve the transformation to a resource efficient europe. it reaffirms the political importance of the resource efficiency agenda and the urgency of the need to take action in order to respond to the economic and environmental challenges we face. resource constraints are a real global trend that we must certainly address. the economic crisis has demonstrated the need for urgent changes in the economy and the need to consider our growth model. without new policies we will put even more pressure on the environment, we will not deliver on our climate change targets, and we will expose our economy and well-being to systemic risks. sustainable resource use is the condition for the long-term resilience and competitiveness of our economies. resource efficiency is also a promising source of growth and jobs, which offers multiple benefits and opportunities for business and policy-making in the short, medium and also long term. the commission has laid out its vision for the path to sustainable growth and competitiveness in the long-term strategies under the europe 2020 resource efficiency flagship initiative, ranging from energy to transport to climate, water and biodiversity. we have integrated resource efficiency into our proposals for cohesion, for research, for development, and for agricultural and fisheries policies. i hope that the outcomes of the legislative process will match the ambition you show today so that we can address the scale of the resource challenges we really face. with the roadmap to a resource efficient europe we have put on the table a coherent framework to achieve the 2050 vision of sustainability. the commission has proposed a set of 2020 milestones and concrete actions to start the process of transformation. resource efficiency policies are approached from three angles, and i am glad to see from your report that you share this view of the priorities. first of all, we highlight the need to provide the horizontal conditions for transformation of the economy. we address consumption and production, emphasise the importance of measures such as eco-design, and highlight the importance of research and innovation, and the crucial need to phase out inefficient subsidies and shift to environmental taxation. turning waste into a valuable resource is key to boosting the resource productivity of the eu economy and also enhancing growth. full implementation of eu waste legislation alone would save eur 72 billion a year, increase the annual turnover of the eu waste management and recycling sector by eur 42 billion and create over 400 000 jobs by 2020. secondly, the nature target. we should try to ensure that our natural capital and the ecosystem services this provides are used efficiently in the short and long term, as they are the foundation of our economy and our quality of life. this reflects the broad definition of resources that the commission seeks to promote. thirdly, we target the economic sectors that are responsible for the greatest share of environmental impacts – namely food, buildings and mobility. i am glad to see that you also put these as a first priority in your report. governance is the key element of the strategy, because resource efficiency is an integration agenda and eu member states have a key role to play in bringing about the necessary changes. integration of resource efficiency into the european semester will ensure that member states are moving along a sustainable path. we will also launch a process to define the appropriate targets with solid, effective and science-based indicators with a view to agreeing on a lead indicator, a dashboard and thematic indicators by 2013. naturally, we also need the full implementation of european union environmental legislation, coupled with actions at international level to ensure a level global playing field. as always, the commitment of all stakeholders is fundamental to the success of any programme. we need to mobilise actors at all levels, and in all relevant sectors, to do their part. i count of course on your support for this. i will be following today’s debate with very keen interest. thank you.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on the basis of the opinion of the committee on international trade. mr president, i take note of the speeches by mr gargani, to whom i pay my respects, and by the commissioner. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade, i can only welcome the inclusion in the text approved by the envi committee of many of the suggestions made in our report at the committee on international trade level. there is no doubt that, in the context of the external dimension of the european union, trade in environmental goods and services is a particularly important instrument for sustainable economic and social development. in particular, the opening up of markets to goods and services and other energy performance plays a role in europe's conscious growth in exports, in the creation of new jobs linked to the spread of new green technologies, in innovation and competitiveness for enterprises, starting with small and medium-sized ones. in our opinion we have stated the importance of certain essential elements in future bilateral, multilateral and regional european agreements: the reduction or elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade in environmental goods and services; the inclusion of a chapter on sustainability; the commission has also proposed that the community should introduce tariff preferences for environmental goods and services produced under the generalised system of preferences, including simplification of procedures. the european union must maintain its global leadership in environmental protection and promote, through trade, the use of green goods, services and technologies in third countries for truly sustainable global growth. we must, commissioner, in particular with regard to third countries, encourage the conclusion of trade agreements consistent with the energy efficiency measures proposed to guarantee a truly decisive and intelligent growth of the european union.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, this report is yet another statement of intent which is difficult to achieve, especially in a time of economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing. the main issues dealt with by parliament are almost exclusively environmental issues. intervention at the level of the european union alone can only impoverish our businesses and our citizens, to the exclusive benefit of third countries. too stringent and burdensome rules lead to the relocation of firms to third countries, which have lower tax burdens, costs, rules and controls. the transfer of these companies also leads to a worsening of atmospheric emissions as they are no longer subject to the already strict european limits. our citizens are being duped twice: we are losing jobs and increasing emissions into the environment. further loss of competitiveness for europe means a longer period of recovery. for these reasons, we voted against the report in the envi committee. if the outcome of the votes in the house, with the adoption of important amendments, improves some of the most controversial points and also takes into account some positive indications contained in this measure, our vote may turn into an abstention. if not, we will speak out against it.
mr president, what we are discussing - the protection of the environment in conjunction with economic growth - is certainly a central theme, which is widely agreed upon at all levels. a more efficient use of resources plays a leading role. it is our absolute duty to ensure that development meets the needs of present generations without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own. however, i am deeply convinced that it is about promoting a culture. i am therefore concerned about some of the overly managerial aspects already mentioned in the commission proposal and excessively emphasized by the rapporteur's work. much has already been said; i am concerned, for example, about the shift of taxation from labour to the environment. i am of the opinion that, in the absence of a comprehensive impact assessment, also at the macroeconomic level, such a measure risks having the sole effect of increasing the already heavy tax burden on european taxpayers. the rapporteur, mr florenz, has already spoken about food habits. i do not think it is our job to tell our citizens whether or not to eat animal protein, and i think it is important that the european parliament has spoken out against food waste, since some 20 per cent of food is thrown away as waste. i hope, therefore, that we will adopt a more constructive and realistic approach. i think we should support in particular proposals to facilitate access to innovative technologies for small and mediumsized enterprises, with a focus on research and innovation. but we must also work with the help of the productive sector: clear and reliable indicators of resource efficiency are absolutely needed, but they must be based not only on economic assessments but also on precise scientific knowledge. finally, as regards the timing: where i come from, in italy, they say "the hasty cat made the kittens blind". don't speed too much! (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. the taxes. has the introduction of a new tax ever eliminated an existing one? i am personally in favour of subsidiarity. taxation is still a matter for national competence, but - i repeat - it is a question of encouraging a culture and not of imposing such a tax from above. finally, although the subject is very broad and deserves further study, experience shows that trying to accelerate too much certain paths - even positive ones - creates quite a few problems.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr gerbrandy on his excellent report. the transition to a resource-efficient economy is inevitable and necessary. by 2050, the world's population will reach 9 billion people, and each of them will aspire to a better life. as the commission points out, at the current rate of resource exploitation, it will take the equivalent of two earths to support the world's population in 2050. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. member states must remove any obstacles to the recycling and reuse of waste market and provide for economic incentives to promote innovative technologies for the collection and separation of waste. it is right to achieve zero waste, by prohibiting landfilling and phasing out the incineration of recyclable waste. it is necessary to agree on indicators of the use of resources in economic activity, i.e. the land footprint, the water footprint, the material footprint and the carbon footprint. these indicators should be used to promote legislative initiatives for sustainable development and reduction of resource exploitation.
madam president, the dramatic nature of the situation is obvious to all. the tragedy is compounded by the fact that there is a clear gap between what we say, denounce and discuss in this house and in the other european institutions and what we actually do for the younger generations in europe. that is the distance we must cover, that is the effort we must make. i have two questions and suggestions to put to you in this connection. the first one. is it possible to envisage a legal obligation, so that in the coming years, in the coming months, every euro spent should be directed towards youth employment policies, thus creating the conditions for a genuine european platform for youth employment? let us not forget that the resources at our disposal are very limited. the second one. in the next few weeks, there will be 230 million in project bonds. can we support projects which will immediately increase youth employment?
as you know, commissioner, work is not just an opportunity to earn a living. it is also the time when people realize themselves, grow psychologically and in character. millions of young people in europe today are denied this opportunity, and economic forecasts show that this phenomenon is bound to increase, becoming a real emergency. as i believe that the high rate of youth unemployment can only be solved through growth policies, we need to make available investment to grow our economies. in the meantime, however, we have to give these kids an answer. i think that in this moment of crisis - indeed, of emergency - there are few objectives to set, if not only to consider that the priority should be one: the school. we must help these young people to stay in school longer, both to increase their knowledge so that they can be a potential for the future of the european economy and to make them aware citizens. only through awareness will we prevent them from becoming a social problem for their communities.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am afraid that the two-minute time limit i was given is very short. i will do my best to answer as fully as possible, especially for those who have stayed until the end of the discussion, but i am afraid that i will need a little more time. first of all, i am very grateful to those who noticed that in my introduction i spoke about action: many actions which we have already taken and to which we are already committed. i can give a more detailed reply on three areas and also some more information than was given in the introduction, starting with the youth guarantee. you probably know that this is not the first time the commission has launched a discussion on the member states and the youth guarantee. thanks to mrs turunen and others in this house, we included the youth guarantee in the europe 2020 flagship initiative and we immediately launched a debate. to be very frank with you, it bounced back from the member states because there was a lot of complacency that the recovery would resolve all the problems automatically. now we have relaunched it and, thanks to the danish presidency, there has already been a very constructive debate in council about the youth guarantee. in my view, there is an emerging consensus. of course, we have to discuss many details, but i am very hopeful that we can reach a constructive conclusion on this by the end of this year. regarding the funds, they are very important and we have done a lot of work, especially in the eight countries, for reallocation. i gave you a figure in my introduction. it applies not only to the european social fund, but also to the regional development fund, because sometimes there is a need to cross the border between the two. there are some very good projects – that was also a question – which i saw myself, like the one in tuscany. this is a regionally organised programme which gives a lot of support to young people to start their career, to begin living independently and to receive training. i also discussed with minister diamantopoulou a new esf programme on start-ups in greece, which is also supported by the esf and can be launched. in these countries, we have indeed made a lot of progress in implementing the esf as regards speed and quality. despite the crisis, this has been possible. nevertheless, i would urge a certain amount of caution. this reallocation of the funds is possible and makes a difference. we can reallocate to more efficient and more effective projects, but this is not a magic solution. it is also important to know that a certain merit and benefit of the structural funds is that there is long-term planning with this fund and that the member states and the regions can rely on these programmes. i am also aware of programmes and new initiatives in other countries. in reply to mr alves, from portugal, i recently received two state secretaries and if you contact my chef de cabinet we can give you much more concrete information about our engagement with portugal. however, let me come to a third issue which was also the subject of heated debate. this is the employment potential of smes or companies in general. in my view, so-called red tape is not the main issue. it is probably a negligible issue if it is an issue at all. the main issue is access to credit. the problem is that the banking system and the financial sector in general has been paralysed and does not properly finance smes and sometimes other companies either. that is why we have to do a lot more about banking regulation to ensure that the banks can revive themselves and then they will be able to support the real economy. that is why the microfinance initiative – for which we also thank the parliament – is so important because it can make a difference in a sector where the standard mainstream financial sector is incapable of supporting micro and small enterprises, especially in disadvantaged and marginalised communities. i would like to see a discussion which is focused on the real obstacles, as well as cooperation to eliminate these real obstacles, rather than shadow boxing. i would like to make one more point on more general terms. i very much agree with those who frame the discussion in the context of the general discussion on employment and growth in the european union today. i think this is extremely important. why? because in the countries of the eu where youth unemployment is excessively high – terribly high, particularly in spain and greece – there is not just one problem. we discussed many: education and training; school to work policies, or the lack thereof; segmentation of the labour market, which labour market reforms inside the member states will help to sort out. that is why the reform in italy is so important, because it will also help the young people. i hope that this reform will be concluded successfully very soon. but it is also very important to notice that we are speaking about a gap between the financially stable countries of the eu and the peripheries, which are under constant financial stress. if you look at the list of the eight countries, we are talking about the so-called periphery of the european union. the big problem is that, until now, there has been no macroeconomic policy in the european union able to establish cohesion and bridge the gap between the core and the peripheries. these policies which block the growth potential of the peripheries and keep them in a permanent recession, do not originate from the commission. these policies – to be very frank with you, mr becker – originate from berlin. mr becker, mr mann, mrs steinruck, mr händel, you are meps, but you also have a right to speak in your national parliaments. please help the bundestag and the chancellor to understand the economics of the european union and help them in making the right decision. the time has come. the most important meeting is tonight, partly here, but also in brussels. the time has come to change the macroeconomic policies, to allow the peripheral countries and regions of the european union to regain their growth potential and provide job opportunities for people, and especially for young people who are now excessively affected by unemployment. this is my conclusion for today, and i thank you for this extremely important discussion.
i have received, in accordance with rule 115 (5), a copy of the minutes. i am not going to go into the details of the vote. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 may 2012 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the oecd figures on youth unemployment in the eu area, at around 22%, are in contrast to article 149 (2) of the treaty on european union, which sets out a number of actions at european level concerning young people, their education, employment and vocational training. growth initiatives, in this sense, are key building blocks for a coordinated and harmonious development of the eu's single market. smart, sustainable and inclusive growth are three key objectives for developing a knowledge-based and innovation-driven economy, while promoting a high-employment economy that fosters social and territorial cohesion. objectives which can only be achieved through an effective and efficient policy in the use of community resources, in particular the structural funds, of which there is still 82 million euro left, much of which could be earmarked for young people, particularly for smes, thus helping to create job opportunities. i therefore support a future policy on youth opportunities, which identifies additional and more ambitious sources of funding to help young people tackle the high level of youth unemployment, and i also believe that it is essential to allocate significant resources in the preparation of the 2014-2020 financial plan, focusing on young people who are unemployed or not enrolled in education or training.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, if we are talking about profitability in terms of equal pay, then i would ask you the question: do the states invest as much in girls' education as in boys' education? it seems to me that, if we go to the end of the logic that you just presented, that would be money misplaced, wouldn't it? i don't think that's what you mean. i think that women's work should be encouraged and respected.
madam president, my first word will be to thank edith bauer for her work which i fully support. but my second word is for you, commissioner, to tell mrs reding that our patience has limits. we are now in a real violation of the charter of fundamental rights because of the wage inequalities that everyone is satisfied with. when i heard you say that the situation had improved because it had gone from a gap of 17.5 per cent to 16.4 per cent, it hurt me. this hurt me because i really think that europe has a fundamental role to play in showing the way to the member states. of course, this legal equality of citizens must be respected, and it is a fundamental right that must be enforced. but we also want transparency, so that everyone in our society is aware of the real wage gap. let the public sector set an example! of course there are smes, of course there is the private sector, but the public sector must also lead by example. that is why, when mrs bauer calls for both incentives and sanctions, i think we must support the legal remedies that women will bring against wage inequality. yes, we must force the states, yes we must force the private business world, but also the public sector, and take all the measures, as president gustafsson said just now, so that women can benefit from this equal pay. we've had enough! we want growth, and we also need women for growth!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur for her work. 55 years after article 119 of the treaty and after article 157 of the treaty of lisbon, the average wage gap in europe is 16.5 per cent, which shows - as the report also states - that a more comprehensive approach must be tried. the nine key issues identified in the report constitute, in my view, an important basis for the amendment of the 2006 directive requested by parliament to the commission by february 2013, providing for both legislative and non-legislative measures. i would remind the previous speaker that the legal basis is article 157, which provides that parliament and the council may act by means of a legislative procedure, together with the commission, to provide for measures to ensure that member states implement measures of parity. in particular, i think that the need for transparency in the definition of the equal value of a job, based on a classification of professions with reference to professionalism, competence and responsibility, should be emphasized. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers. in addition, in the assessment of remuneration, there is a need for greater transparency of the part of the salary which is generally the same as the other components where the gap tends to grow, such as benefits, allowances or posts. this is demonstrated by the fact that the gap increases as women's professional level increases, which means that this is the aspect on which we must concentrate, together, of course, with the need for reconciliation and training opportunities, as well as the value of parttime work in relation to career opportunities, a factor which is still a handicap today.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs bauer in particular for her excellent work. commissioner, we need to establish with the member states a clear timetable for eliminating the gender pay gap. we need concrete and measurable legislative commitments, that track progress or highlight critical issues. in my view, the member states must be further assisted in this endeavour by the european commission, also with the helpful support of eurostat, precisely in order to understand what is working and what is not, to disseminate and share good practice, and to initiate a process which is virtuous from a cultural and mental point of view, both within the world of work and, more generally, within society. it is therefore necessary to take concrete measures, to strengthen and equip existing legislation with penalties, which are obviously effective, proportionate but dissuasive, and to carry out constant and compulsory checks on the recruitment system, on salaries and also on the right to take maternity leave without the risk of being dismissed.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the gender pay gap is still very much felt among workers in the european union. women today still earn 17.1 percent less than men for the same job. this is both alarming and unacceptable in a european union which is at the forefront of the fight against discrimination and respect for fundamental rights. this gap is one which causes great difficulties for the professional and personal development of a very large number of women workers in the european union: i am also referring to the difficulty women face in re-entering the labour market after maternity, which creates gender differences such as the pension gap. i therefore commend mrs bauer for tackling this serious discrimination by identifying concrete measures to address this phenomenon, given that the percentage of the wage gap is constant, year after year. many colleagues have mentioned it: we have been fighting for 50 years to eliminate this phenomenon. compulsory wage controls must be introduced in companies and workers must be informed of their rights. women should be given adequate information and assistance in order to assert their rights when negotiating their employment contract. i therefore support the national and local bodies responsible for promoting and monitoring equality, which should have legal competence. we cannot remain indifferent to this discrimination against women, which has direct consequences for society and the economy, and which creates obstacles to the creation of future societies.
madam president, if after 55 years the phenomenon of discrimination still has the impressive dimensions we are talking about, it means that the policies we have adopted here have not been sufficiently effective. for this reason, i think it is very important to introduce the innovative elements also mentioned in the report, but above all to strengthen the system of incentives for good action and sanctions against discriminatory acts. as regards penalties, it would be sufficient to provide, for example, for the exclusion from public procurement of companies which do not respect equality. i would also like to point out another important and worrying element, which has already been mentioned but perhaps deserves more attention. the social security systems in all european countries are changing their structure from a 'shared' system to a 'capitalised' system. every interruption of a career or every wage discrimination becomes a penalty that a woman will carry with her for the rest of her life. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, for us both these are the fundamental elements. the first is the democratic question, which means that the european parliament is fully involved in decisions concerning macrofinancial assistance, its implementation and its suspension. where the decisions are not technical or executive: it is important that parliament is always called upon to give its assessment. the second is political conditionality. someone has already pointed this out: the need to have an external action service if it is not fully involved in decisions as important as macro-financial assistance; it is useless to emphasize human rights and then not to take them into account when making important decisions. i would like to add a third question, which is important to me: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has its own specific strategy for central asia and it is important that macrofinancial assistance be one of its main pillars.
madam president, since 1990, the european union has been providing economic aid in the form of grants and loans or a combination of both to countries in difficulty, with a balance of payments in the short term, through the instrument of macrofinancial assistance. the rather long time-limits, together with the difficulties of the decision-making criteria used so far, have made it necessary to make some amendments to the regulation. i therefore welcome the proposal in the new regulation, which aims to make the evaluation criteria faster and more effective and to agree on clearer rules and conditions for the disbursement of macrofinancial assistance.
madam president, like all my colleagues, i strongly condemn the harassment of yulia tymoshenko in prison and i hope very much that the ukrainian authorities will guarantee the impartiality and transparency of the proceedings before the supreme court, which will decide the fate of the former prime minister and the other politicians currently detained. i would like to add, however, that i am firmly opposed to the boycott of football leagues, which has been called for in recent days by some european politicians. ethical values have always enabled sport to overcome many barriers and free it from political exploitation. sport has always proved to be a means of achieving equality and brotherhood among peoples.
in writing. - i believe that it would be useful to simplify and speed up the procedure for granting macrofinancial assistance, and i agree with the rapporteur that a balance must be struck between the need for clear rules and the possibility for the commission to adapt its assistance to the specific situation. i also appreciate that article 6 of the commission's proposal makes the granting of this type of assistance conditional on countries having effective democratic mechanisms, and being based on the rule of law and respect for human rights. for these reasons, my vote will be in favour.
in writing. − the instrument represented by the mfa (macro-financial assistance) needs some revisions in the legal and regulatory spheres in order to be able to exploit its specific features in support of third countries in the most effective and practical way. the lamf should be, as the report suggests, not an instrument in addition to what the international monetary fund has already done for third countries, but an added value that can benefit from the cooperation of european credit institutions such as the eib and the efsf. in addition, the assessment of macro-financial assistance needs to be contingent and take into account the bureaucratic and operational variables that individual member states put in place, sometimes causing delays in the use of these funds, thus undermining their impact and reducing their effectiveness.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i think it is absolutely appropriate to clarify that macrofinancial assistance should be used to provide exceptional financial assistance to third countries facing temporary balance of payments difficulties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the new general provisions increase the effectiveness of macrofinancial assistance by specifying the rules relating to the geographical scope. the aim of this regulation is to create a legal instrument for macrofinancial assistance to third countries, by aligning decisions with those of other external financial assistance instruments. the report also sets a minimum percentage of the european union contribution for most cases, ensuring added value and facilitating the use of macro-financial assistance by larger countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i think it is right to have a general legislative instrument for any future macrofinancial assistance to third countries. i supported the main proposals put forward by the rapporteur, although i did not share his concern about the need to involve our parliament more in future macrofinancial assistance measures. in my view, the procedure initially proposed by the european commission, which involved the council but not the european parliament, could be supported. the members of the committee on international trade, however, preferred to make changes which would make the negotiations with the council very long and difficult. i hope, however, that the rapporteur will conduct the negotiations with the co-legislator successfully.
in writing. − the european union's macrofinancial assistance, set up in 1990 to provide financial support to third countries facing short-term balance of payments difficulties, has to date taken 55 decisions in favour of 23 countries, totalling eur 7.2 billion, in the form of grants, loans or a combination of both. the vote will seek to achieve the following objectives: create a formal legal instrument for macro-financial assistance to third countries, speed up, make more effective and simplify the decision-making process for each macro-financial assistance operation, agree rules and conditions between the institutions of the european union, update and clarify certain rules, in particular with regard to the geographical scope of macro-financial assistance, and align the macro-financial assistance decision-making process with that of other external financial assistance instruments.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on this text because although i support its quest for the reform of the ukrainian legal and judiciary system, i believe that the linkage between the situation of human rights in ukraine and the prosecution of yulia tymoshenko could be misleading. i support the demand for a fair trial for ms tymoshenko, but i dissent from the idea of connecting our relationship with ukraine with the tymoshenko case. i am also afraid that this text could give the impression that the former prime minister of ukraine deserves to be supported as if she was a champion of freedom and justice in her country. she is not. as a member of the dominant oligarchy, mrs tymoshenko lost an internal fight with people no better than her.
in writing. the conditions in which former ukrainian prime minister yulia tymoshenko has been held for months, imprisoned and subjected to various forms of physical and psychological violence, are unacceptable. first of all, we must urge the ukrainian authorities to ensure that the fundamental rights of their detainees are fully respected by ensuring that they receive proper treatment, medical care in appropriate institutions, regular visits by their families and adequate communication with their lawyers. this situation affects relations between the eu and ukraine, and i therefore believe that the authorities in kiev should not ignore the views expressed by this parliament, which is taking a position following numerous speeches by the highest officials of the european institutions and those of the member states.
in writing. - the recent revelations about the inhuman treatment of the former ukrainian president in prison make the situation unacceptable to us. the resolution is intended to remind europe that yulia tymoshenko is serving an absurd and unjust sentence in ukrainian prisons, imposed by an undemocratic regime which is already out of the picture. mrs timoshenko, who is also in very poor health, must be released immediately.
in writing. the european parliament decided to take a position on the ukrainian question by voting a joint resolution calling on the ukrainian government to release immediately yulia timoshenko and the political representatives of the opposition, who were imprisoned after summary trials for political reasons and held in unacceptable conditions. ukraine is a strategic country for the union, but this does not justify any discounting of respect for fundamental rights and the most basic principles of democracy. the resolution makes the strengthening of the neighbourhood policy and the continuation of the accession negotiations conditional on ukraine accepting certain preconditions. parliament calls for free elections to be held and for it to be allowed to send its representatives to monitor all voting procedures, to ensure that they are conducted properly, and to have access to the files where necessary, and then to initiate a process of reform in the field of justice and the economy. the question of participation in european football was considered irrelevant and perhaps even counterproductive to its exploitation. the call to not take part, which president barroso has already announced he will follow, remains in the background as an opportunity assessment. i believe that this resolution is an act of political maturity on the part of our parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution, which aims to raise awareness among the ukrainian authorities of the case of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko and of the question of justice in this country in general. i am not in the habit of intervening in the internal affairs of another state, but in cases where there are clear violations of fundamental rights, it is absolutely impossible to remain indifferent. in ukraine, justice has been systematically used as a political weapon to eliminate its opponents: the trial of tymoshenko is clear evidence of this, and such actions cannot be tolerated by a state which is very close to europe and with which europe has many relations in various fields and sectors. i also do not want to get into the controversy over whether or not to boycott the next european football championship, jointly organized by poland and ukraine: i wonder rather how it was possible to allocate them at that time, since the various problems of a democratic nature in the former soviet republic were already well known.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on ukraine because today there is a strong and symbolic woman, sick in a cell, who represents for all of us the distorted use of justice in a country, ukraine, which is not a member of the eu but which in the three-year period 2011-2013 will benefit from 480 million euros allocated by the neighbourhood policy programmes. yulia timoshenko and her officials, protagonists of the "orange revolution" against the regime's oppression, are deprived of their freedom for raising the voices of so many anonymous citizens who demanded, without obtaining it, freedom of expression and to choose their own lives and political representatives. ukraine, which will host the world cup in a month's time, has a strong responsibility to europe: the european union must show that it is willing to fill the democratic deficit which is the essential condition for being able to apply for full membership of the european union.
in writing. − an event such as the european football championships is an occasion for unity, peace and fraternity, showing everyone the culture of the host countries and the integration of the european peoples in a festive atmosphere. that is the power of sport, unity in diversity and that is the motto of the european union, unity in diversity. unfortunately, the situation in ukraine is now threatening to divide, as human rights are not fully respected in that country. the case of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko is telling. the european parliament has therefore adopted a resolution calling for an end to the ill-treatment of the former prime minister in prison. this resolution, before the start of the european championships, is not intended to be an attempt to boycott them but a form of pressure on the ukrainian government to call for respect for justice and human rights.
in writing. - the recent revelations about the inhumane treatment of the former ukrainian prime minister in prison (who was sentenced to seven years in prison for abuse of power and is awaiting trial for embezzlement and tax evasion) make the situation unacceptable to us. with this vote we want to remind europe that yulia tymoshenko is serving an absurd and unjust sentence in ukrainian prisons, imposed by an undemocratic regime which is already out of the picture. mrs timoshenko - who is also in very poor health - must be released immediately. we, as the european union, must act immediately and more effectively than we have done so far. in ukraine, it is a fact that justice is being used for political purposes and the only message that the government in kiev can send to show the contrary is to release yulia tymoshenko.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because we should send a clear message against homophobia. it is unacceptable that in 2012 in europe this irrational aversion continues to express itself in different forms, such as hate speech, psychological and physical violence, persecution and murder. i also believe that we must take a clear position to fight any kind of discrimination and unjustified limitations of rights which are often hidden behind justifications based on public order, religious freedom and the right to conscientious objection. for this reason with this text we once again ask the commission to produce a comprehensive roadmap for equality on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, and ask the council to unblock the directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, which is blocked due to the objections of some member states.
in writing. the continuing insistence on the need for european documents against homophobia shows that the objective pursued is different from what it appears to be. the principle of the equality of all human beings, their dignity, and the consequent need to respect the freedom of all regardless of their sexual orientation is a given, on which all members of parliament agree. it is therefore reasonable to assume, as is explicitly stated in the resolution in question, that the aim of the emphasis on rejecting homophobia is to make marriage between homosexuals acceptable. the text also reflects the desire for education of minors in such a way that the same-sex relationship is considered of equal value with respect to marriage as the foundation of the family and therefore of the state, as recognized by article 16 of the universal declaration of human rights. the right to guarantee freedom for all citizens cannot be confused with the promotion and support of the state for what constitutes its foundation. the educational and cultural aspects play a leading role here and a line that through equivocation causes public harm must therefore be opposed.
in writing. - i voted against the motion for a resolution on the fight against homophobia in europe because i believe that homophobia, which is obviously unacceptable, should not be confused with family law. as the interpretation of the court of justice of the european communities confirms, there is not, and there must not be, a single model of the family, but the plurality of national regulatory schemes is acknowledged, thus excluding the possibility of a predominance of community sources. the european union is a community of 27 member states, 27 different cultures and 27 different traditions, and we must protect unity in diversity, respecting the principle of subsidiarity. the european union's task is to promote harmonisation, not uniformity, of family law.
in writing. the resolution adopted today is the most appropriate way to celebrate the international day against homophobia. i am pleased that the groups have reached agreement, which has made it possible to bring together the various motions for resolutions originally tabled in a single motion. unfortunately, in many countries there is a level of unculturedness that fuels homophobic feelings. the european union has reached a mature position on this sensitive issue. it has always promoted the fight against all forms of violence, marginalization and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. today's vote relaunches the european strategy, calling on the commission to revise the framework decision on racism and xenophobia, including violence based on sexual orientation and gender identity, and to complete the anti-discrimination package with the introduction of a clear prohibition of discrimination on the same grounds. i did not agree with the reference to the directive on freedom of movement, as it goes beyond the fight against homophobia, by re-proposing the age-old question of the recognition of the effects of civil unions. the committee on petitions has been called upon to address this issue on several occasions. as the european commission has always said, this is not a matter for the union.
in writing. - they are among the 59 meps who abstained on the resolution against homophobia. let 's get this straight . abstention does not mean disagreement with the principle of non-discrimination or indifference in condemning discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. we strongly deplore that the fundamental rights of lgbt people are still not fully respected within the european union and beyond, as is happening in ukraine, often with developments that restrict freedom of expression and association on the basis of unfounded ideas about homosexuality. in some eu and non-eu countries, such as lithuania, latvia, hungary and russia, ukraine, moldova, similar laws have already been used to arrest and fine citizens, including heterosexuals, who express support, tolerance or acceptance towards homosexuals. my abstention is therefore not a prejudice to the defence of the dignity of persons but a rejection of the attempt to pass by the book, in yet another 'parliamentary trojan horse', content which actually requires a thorough debate in the appropriate places, which a non-legislative resolution such as the one voted on today cannot certainly offer but which habitually colonizes this kind of text for reasons of pure expediency.
in writing. - i am voting against this resolution because i believe that it is not at all europe's responsibility to deal with the right of same-sex couples to marry, since this matter is, according to the principle of subsidiarity, a matter for the legislation of the member states. the constitution of my country clearly defines marriage and does not provide for alternative possibilities. europe cannot interfere in this affair unless it provides in paragraph 9 of the resolution: 'believes that the fundamental rights of lgbt people would be better protected if they had access to legal institutions such as cohabitation, registered partnerships or marriage; welcomes the fact that 16 member states currently offer such opportunities and invites other member states to consider such institutions.' my objection is also valid, because, while the need to combat all discrimination, including discrimination based on sex, is not at all related to the surreptitious indication that this resolution gives that same-sex couples can marry. that is why i am against this resolution.
in writing. - the transition to the green economy, in addition to being a transition to a low-carbon economy with a lower environmental impact, is a bright light for our companies, especially those that have invested large sums of money in the conversion of their production to support the environment and those that have focused on innovative technologies and the production of eco-friendly products. it also reduces the social costs of the increase in unemployment, especially among young people, by creating new jobs and at the same time it is an incentive to achieve the strategic objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. a recent study by wwf italy estimated that with a billion euro in sustainable infrastructure and environmental programmes, 29 000 jobs could be created in agriculture. with a more targeted investment of the same amount in the renewable energy sector, this would increase to 52,700 or 25,900 in the energy saving sectors, mainly buildings.
in writing. - the world economy is slowly, and unevenly, emerging from the worst crisis and recession ever known. as we tackle pressing issues such as high unemployment, inflationary pressures and fiscal deficits, it is becoming a priority to look to the future and formulate new strategies to ensure growth in europe. the challenges ahead are clear: the world's population will reach 9 billion in 2050. the number of middle-class consumers will almost double to over 3 billion in the next ten years; food production will increase by 70% by 2050. the roadmap to a resource-efficient europe, in my view, while providing an analysis and outlining the first steps to be taken to implement a new growth agenda, does not adequately reflect the emergency nature of the matter. the commission, while indicating the direction to be taken in building europe's future, is not sufficiently concrete as regards the steps to be taken. it is strategic to define the priorities of a new growth programme, encouraging the commission, the member states and industry to opt for a more ambitious programme, which is not limited to a purely european dimension but is also adopted at national, regional and local level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr gerbrandy's report, although i have reservations about certain points in the text which i believe do not take into account the differences and peculiarities of the territories, especially the most peripheral ones. the call for the abolition of landfills with limited deadlines, in fact, on the one hand, meets the renewed need to respect the guidelines of the europe 2020 strategy; on the other hand, it does not take account of the development of the waste disposal process in certain european regions, such as sicily, which could not comply with the new obligations and thus incur heavy financial penalties.
in writing. - i fully support the proposal to set up joint task forces in the three key areas of food, housing and mobility, with a view to drawing up as soon as possible european action plans for resource efficiency, clearly defining actions to reduce resource consumption. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − in line with the europe 2020 objectives, the resource efficiency report is one of the pillars of the european future. parliament committed itself to pursuing the objective of improving the use of raw materials and energy and to promoting a low-impact economy with targeted investment and innovative technologies in order to achieve a less intensive and more impactful economy by 2050. recycling, research and innovation, public and private investment and a competitive market are the basis of this project, to which we must all commit ourselves day by day, listening to the demands of our citizens.
in writing. - we voted today in the chamber in strasbourg on mr gerbrandy's report. the european parliament and the commission have set ambitious plans to tackle resource use. it is now up to the member states to rise to the challenge and strive for efficiency. the resolution calls for the phasing out of landfills and calls on the commission to submit proposals by the end of 2014. it should also review the recycling targets for 2020 set out in the waste framework directive and ensure that the incineration of recyclable and compostable waste is phased out by the end of the decade. european industry and consumers would gain from environmentally friendly products. the commission is therefore invited to propose an update of the ecodesign directive to include non-energy products and to call for greater durability, recyclability and repairability of goods. the labelling should also provide consumers with information on resource use and environmental impact. the resolution calls on the commission to set up a task force to develop european action plans for resource efficiency in the areas of food, housing and mobility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this programme because it is necessary to plan ahead for new production and consumption models from a technical, institutional and social point of view. with europe's population expected to double by 2050, it is urgent to decouple economic growth from resource use, and to encourage citizens to play an active role in sustainable consumption, waste reduction and waste collection and sorting.
in writing. − in the light of the effects of the economic crisis and the high environmental awareness of the public, i believe that it is appropriate to rapidly implement the measures needed to achieve the objective of greater efficiency in the use of all resources (primarily raw materials and energy), to promote the transition to a low-carbon economy and to encourage the use of eco-friendly products (by promoting the use of recycled materials and extending the application of eco-design criteria) and investment in innovative technologies (both for the production of goods and services and for the reduction of polluting emissions). in the medium term (by 2020), i believe that they should lay the foundations for completing the transition from the current resource-intensive economy to a more technologically advanced economy with a lower environmental impact, with greater energy security and employment (through the creation of high value-added jobs) by 2050. this transition should be accompanied by a system of tax incentives and disincentives, aimed at shifting tax burdens from labour to the use of resources/raw materials, ideally to the benefit of employment. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the involvement of the public and private sectors in the development of resource efficiency action plans, the removal of obstacles to the functioning of the european recycling and reuse market, the development of clear and measurable economic indicators, the extension of the scope of the eco-label directive and, above all, a greater promotion of research and technological innovation are the key actions to make the union more resource efficient. for these reasons, while i would like to see full implementation of eu legislation before any new initiatives are taken, i voted in favour.
in writing. the figures for youth unemployment are alarming: one in five young people under 25 is looking for a job and cannot find one, and 7.5 million young people between 15 and 24 are not in employment, education or vocational training. they're called nets. in january, eight action teams were set up for the eight countries with the highest level of youth unemployment, one of which was devoted to italy. what are the results so far? i ask this because the objectives and measures contained in the new youth opportunities initiative are promising and ambitious and i would not like them to remain on paper and without a valid response to this tragic situation.
in writing. − member states are urgently called upon to adopt a more coordinated strategy between national education and training plans and labour market needs. i agree with the proposal to adopt a european youth employment strategy which will help businesses, social welfare organisations, public authorities and other employers to create decent and quality jobs.
in writing. - i supported this resolution and i am glad that today, italian prime minister mario monti has promised €8 billion to help young people find work. a good indication of the european and national political alignment. at the beginning of 2011, the average unemployment rate in the eu was 10%, while youth unemployment stood at 22.1%, compared to 14.7% in 2008. in the text adopted, we support the commission's 'opportunities for young people' initiative, but we express strong doubts about the proportionality between the scope of the proposed actions and the seriousness of the current employment crisis experienced by young people in many member states. this is why it is necessary to launch a european investment plan to create jobs for young people. president barroso said that 82 billion for the structural funds had not yet been distributed. we therefore call on him to give priority to our young people.
in writing. in the text adopted, we supported the commission's 'opportunities for young people' initiative but expressed strong doubts that 'the scale of the proposed actions is commensurate with the severity of the current employment crisis experienced by young people in many member states'. we therefore propose to launch a 'european investment plan' to create jobs for young people. on 30 january 2012, at a european council, commission president barroso announced that €82 billion in structural funds, out of a total of €347 billion for the period 2007-2013, had not yet been distributed and could therefore be reallocated; the commission is therefore asked to use a substantial part of these funds for youth employment programmes and to consider increasing the community support rate for projects co-financed with national governments in countries with higher youth unemployment. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year.
in writing. - the exponential growth of youth unemployment in europe, which currently exceeds 22%, is blocking the future prospects of an entire generation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women.
in writing. the european union aims to promote young people's access to the labour market, including by strengthening the status of trainees and apprentices. this is why it is urgent to develop economic and employment strategies and policies to create more and better jobs for young people, thus avoiding their falling into the 'trap of precariousness' of a succession of temporary jobs and unpaid traineeships which do not allow for any real improvement in wage or working conditions or more stable forms of employment. at the same time, national labour market, education and training policies need to be supported through a european youth guarantee ensuring the right of every young person in the eu to a job, a traineeship, further training or a combination of work and training after a period of unemployment of up to four months.
in writing. − i voted for this report because in 2012 it is unacceptable that women across the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men. it is appalling that despite the significant body of legislation in force for almost 40 years and the actions taken on trying to reduce the gap progress is extremely slow and in some member states the gap has even widened. the causes of the persistent high gender pay gap are complex and go far beyond the single issue of equal pay for equal work. these causes include social and economic factors, undervaluing of women’s work, inequality in the balancing of work and private life, traditions and stereotypes. for this reason i believe that the implementation of the principle of equal pay for the same work and for work of equal value is crucial to achieving gender equality and to fighting any kind of discrimination against women.
in writing. − according to the latest available data, women in the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men, while in the member states the gender pay gap varies between 4.4% and 27.6%. so despite the massive body of legislation in place for almost 40 years, the actions taken and the resources spent to reduce this gap, we find that progress is extremely slow. the implementation of the principle of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value is fundamental to achieving gender equality. european directive 2006/54/ec has contributed to improving the situation of women in the labour market but has not substantially changed legislation on closing the gender pay gap. in addition, preliminary studies show that no or minimal changes have been made to the legislation of the member states. given the complexity of the phenomenon, i believe that it requires not only an improvement of current legislation but also a european-wide strategy to tackle the gender pay gap, as well as strong european leadership in policy coordination and the promotion of good practice.
in writing. the principle of equal work, equal pay is enshrined in the system of freedoms on which our civil orders are based: the fact that this principle has been applied only in part must require honest reflection, such as that underlying mrs bauer's report. gender equality in the workplace is of strategic importance in the face of two key changes that are characteristic of the contemporary scenario: the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the community's social policy. on both fronts, adequate professional recognition for women is an indispensable condition for initiating the profound changes that europe will need to make in order to meet the challenges of our time. in a moderate and liberal view of society, it should be left to it to bring about the necessary changes. however, the limited impact of the even more important legislative work (community and state), the slowdown in wage alignment and the recurrent cuts also due to the effects of the crisis require special attention to be paid to this matter, which can also be resolved by more stringent, effective and demanding measures. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the statistics we have, although still in the process of being defined, give us a very unencouraging picture of gender equality in the workplace. in the european union, women earn on average 16.4% less than men for equal work or work of equal value. the pay gap between women and men also varies between 4.4% and 27.6%: a large scissor that raises concerns. it is therefore urgent to work towards reducing these gaps in all areas of employment. the report, which i have supported, sets out the ambitious objectives of removing barriers to entry, improving selection criteria, combating gender discrimination and taking action at all levels of employment, from the private sector to the public sector.
in writing. in the european union, women earn on average 16.4% less than men: this is an unacceptable figure. i agree with the rapporteur that the european union needs strong leadership in coordinating policies, promoting good practice and involving the various actors, such as the european social partners and non-governmental organisations, in order to create a european-wide strategy to tackle the gender pay gap.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think it is unacceptable that in the third millennium the pay gap between men and women is still 17%. it is commonly said that "the women's day is 27 hours", meaning the flexibility of dividing up between home, work, family and, if there is still time left, leisure. it is therefore unacceptable that the pay is not commensurate with the tireless work of women. we call today on the european commission to take further measures to reduce the gender pay gap in all eu policies and national programmes, including through the tightening of fines, administrative pecuniary penalties and exclusion from public benefits and subsidies. there is already a directive, adopted in 2008, but experts believe it has remained a dead letter due to opposition from national legislation that has not transposed its core principles. according to eurostat data, the widest wage gaps are found in austria, cyprus, the czech republic, germany and slovakia, while the smallest are found in belgium, italy, malta and slovenia. "a common evil is not half a joy" but, let me say, as an italian i am glad that italy is already on the right track to fill this gap.
in writing. - unfortunately, even today, decades after women's emancipation, we still have to fight for gender equality. the report by mrs bauer, which i fully support, is intended to lay the foundations for european legislation to guarantee equal pay for men and women for equal work. the existing laws are not enough to close the gender pay gap, which - varying from country to country - is summed up in an ever lower average wage for women. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. − the revision of directive 2006/54 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment has brought about changes in the sector; however, much remains to be done to reduce the gender pay gap. that is why i voted in favour of the report on equal pay for men and women workers for equal work or work of equal value. i think it is right that the european commission should urge national governments to take measures to reduce the gender gap and also to provide for sanctions in the event of a breach of the principle of equal pay.
in writing. - according to the latest figures, women in the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men, and the pay gap between women and men in the member states varies between 4.4% and 27.6%. despite the massive body of legislation in place for almost 40 years, the actions taken and the resources spent to reduce this gap, progress has been extremely slow. the causes of the persistent and high gender pay gap are also complex, multiple and often interrelated, and go far beyond the single issue of equal pay for equal work or work of equal value. the vote will seek to speed up the implementation of the principle of equal pay for men and women.
in writing. the gender pay gap in the european union is still too high, with an average of around 18%. the actions taken and the resources spent to reduce this gap have been numerous in recent years, but clearly not sufficient. i therefore expressed my support for the text voted today which calls for greater transparency in the assessment of women's work, the integration of the gender dimension and appropriate sanctions to induce member states to take the necessary measures in the event of a breach of the principle of equal pay.
in writing. − in view of the restrictions applied in various areas by the swiss authorities to eu citizens or entities, it is essential for eu-swiss relations and for the future development of swiss participation in the single market that there is a regulatory framework that ensures a more transparent and predictable environment for economic operators on both sides.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i do not think it is right for the european union to intervene in the free choice of a sovereign state as to how its residence permits are issued. the swiss confederation, on the other hand, has done well to set limits and strict rules: if we had behaved like this in the past, perhaps we would not have been invaded by thousands of foreigners looking for jobs, which are often lacking even for italians. switzerland applies a pragmatic method, far removed from the false european goodwill which preaches open borders for all, without then evaluating the consequences in depth. i do, however, share the point in the report that switzerland should make it easier for european smes to access the swiss market: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are comforted by the commission's cautious approach to the new system of relations between the world's first and fourth economies. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. we cannot fail to see, however, that amidst the many misgivings, marked by centuries of antagonism and unresolved resentment, the history of a system of relations based on multipolarism, and thus the overcoming of the hegemony of the united states, is driving new partnerships in the far east. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new structures that are emerging in the world and in the main regions of the world must therefore find the european union as an enterprising protagonist, both by strengthening the multilateral approach and by strengthening the bilateral relationship that helps europe to strengthen its competitiveness. for these reasons, political and economic, we cannot but support your efforts and create the conditions for improving the system of relations between us and japan. however, we are not prepared to enter into negotiations unless the council first involves the european parliament in the preliminary definition of the negotiating mandate. if it is true that, formally, the european parliament has the power to conclude the negotiating process by ratifying or not ratifying the concluded treaties, it is equally true that, for all time and everywhere, parliaments, for their democratic legitimacy, cannot but be constantly involved in the definition of the guidelines to which the negotiating mandate should be subject. europe needs to follow not only the letter but also the spirit of the treaties, and we therefore ask that the council, in this as in other cases, take due account of this. finally, taking note of the commissioner's words, we reiterate that it is absolutely necessary for japan to show that it is willing to break down the tariff and, above all, non-tariff barriers which still dominate the internal market. it is not our intention, therefore, to hinder the negotiations, but to meet the demands of european public opinion, which fears that the confrontation between an open internal market such as ours and the increasingly closed markets of our major competitors will ultimately undermine our competitiveness and, with it, growth and employment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it would be a pity if the european parliament and the council did not give the green light to negotiations with japan, asking in this case what we have never asked in previous similar situations. i agree with the rapporteur, metin kazak: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be paradoxical for us to close down as a fully democratic country, while we are negotiating with other countries which are in one way or another dictatorships, such as vietnam or singapore. and let us not talk about the european crisis as a reason for holding back these negotiations. the crisis cannot be overcome by closing the door on the market, by protectionism. the crisis is overcome by open but intelligent trade, with a wisdom that we may not always have had until now, and based on reciprocity, as i ask together with colleagues daul, guerrero salom, susta and muscardini in the written declaration no. 0016/2012 on fair trade that i invite all colleagues to sign. in this case it means not closing the door and negotiating with japan measures that allow the removal of non-tariff barriers, bilateral safeguards for sensitive sectors - and we can strengthen these safeguards - the protection of geographical indications for our products, the removal of barriers that today hinder trade, in particular for our small and mediumsized enterprises which could instead find an extraordinary additional market in japan, the opening of japanese public procurement to our companies including smes, a mechanism for adjudicating trade disputes which today is difficult to achieve, and also cooperation in the field of energy after fukushima based on sustainable development. these and other things we can ask and get from japan. we're not giving up on this.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, full support from the efta countries for the new generalised preferential tariff scheme, which streamlines the mechanism and makes it more consistent with its constituent objectives of supporting developing countries. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr christofer fjellner, on his ability to strike a balance between the various options. now there are two commitments to be made immediately. the application of the gsp should be coordinated with that of bilateral free trade agreements, in particular in order not to alter the preferential nature of the gsp for developing countries which might also find themselves with access conditions that are less favourable than those guaranteed to beneficiaries of a bilateral agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. we have some big news here: the burden of proof is reversed, and it will be up to countries which are potentially not complying with these conventions to prove that they have the criteria of good governance and respect for human rights by virtue of which they enjoy this system of generalised preferences. the fact that information on this can come not only from the international organisations themselves, which are the promoters of these conventions, but also from parliament, the council and above all from civil society, transforms this framework in a much more participatory and democratic way. we are talking about 27 conventions to be respected, including the un convention on climate change. this part of the scheme must now be fully implemented, without which much of this good work would be lost.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to emphasize that the system of generalized preferences must be above all an instrument which enables the countries benefiting from it to be integrated into international trade and which gives them the opportunity to develop their economies and their resources. the rules for applying it must therefore be based on criteria which ensure, as far as possible, a fair and balanced application to those countries which need it most. but the current proposal for reform of the gsp which we shall be voting on on wednesday treats equally countries which are highly integrated in international trade, with per capita incomes of up to 12 000 dollars, and vulnerable countries which barely exceed 4 000 dollars. the measure excludes countries such as libya, namibia, botswana and many latin american countries with economies that have little weight in international trade, thus weakening the european union's strategic and solidarity links with this region. for these reasons i support the amendments which allow some of these vulnerable countries to remain in the gsp or at least give them some time to adjust to the new situation and, if they wish, negotiate an agreement with the european union. the vote on wednesday will be the last chance to try to amend this agreement so that no country is forced to negotiate a trade agreement with the union by being excluded from the gsp. i hope that the house will take these proposals into account, because they would make this reform more inclusive, more balanced and would help the european union's trade policy to generate fair international trade which is beneficial for all of us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we cannot fail to take note of the positive elements contained in the commission's proposal which, improved also by the work of the inta committee, will be put to the vote. however, on the methodological side, i sincerely disagree with the idea of closing a practice which will be effective from 2014 at first reading and which deprives the house of its power to fully exploit its potential in such an important matter. i think that the positive aspects of the new regulation are not entirely offset by the negative aspects which are still present and which are closely affecting the interests of industrial sectors which have already been affected in europe by globalisation which is not governed by new multilateral rules and which is based on reciprocity. the new geographical coverage is positive, however, and is based on the principle of differentiation, which favours the countries most in need. the so-called gsp+ linked to the implementation of the main international conventions on social, human and environmental rights is a good one. the safeguard clause for the whole textile and clothing sector and the whole of the sector is also positive. however, the weakening of the economic criteria for the beneficiaries of the gsp+ scheme and the exclusion from the mechanism of graduation of countries that are under this scheme actually opens the door to unfair competition towards sectors already affected, as i said, and privileges countries like pakistan which we must not approve of beyond human rights violations. i am sure that this is a positive regulation, but these questions cast a negative light on other aspects which we have been considering.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we thought it appropriate to put this oral question because the subject is particularly relevant. we have always tried to bring the citizens closer to the european institutions. we do this in many ways, through visitors to parliament, through our actions on the ground, through all the means of communication that our times allow us. we do this by continuing to call for it in all our resolutions, and we do this also in the commission's public consultations. the commission often uses these consultations as the basis for its communications to parliament and the other european institutions. the commission's work is guided by the answers. so what's the problem? the problem is that the results of these consultations are often objectively embarrassing. a few dozen responses, sometimes even just a few units of response, representing the half billion citizens who make up the european union. this is really embarrassing. in 2011, the commission had already committed to review its consultation policy, but as of today, i.e. mid-2012, we have neither seen nor heard anything. and it's not about extending the time, we could do it for 365 days but the results would be the same. one of the most obvious problems is the use of languages. often, the use of english is limited, and english, french and german are rarely used. my mother could never take part in the consultations because she does not know any of the three languages in question and so do many of our citizens. and it is not just a matter of ignorance, it is also a matter of the values in which we believe and which we have placed at the basis of our union. multilingualism, commissioner, is one of them. it is important to know the languages, but we have 23 languages, so why can't a portuguese, an italian or a lithuanian know the commission's consultation in their own language? of course, the few answers do not depend on languages alone, but we have to start somewhere and language is not only a good starting point but, commissioner, it also becomes a priority. because if we were to continue like this, we're saving the root, we're abolishing this instrument, because the figure we make is really bad. i would like to conclude with a question to you, commissioner: if you were the head of a communications company, would the results of this communication be satisfactory to you and your company?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that at this very difficult stage, with such an overwhelming financial and economic crisis, perhaps the commissioner will think that there are other political priorities on which to debate and discuss. because otherwise the issue of multilingualism, the issue of cultural wealth, the issue of democratic participation should have been effectively resolved by now, but it is not. the european union certainly has a unity on the monetary level, but it does not yet have it on the fiscal and political level, and there is no doubt that one of the rights of citizenship denied is that of participation and information. what other use could consultation have if not as a means, as a means of informing the citizens about what is happening and of ensuring, through close consultation, a serious debate and concrete proposals for what are then the decisions of the european institutions. the commission's political will is probably stronger than the objective to be achieved and the means to be used. but there are a number of innovative opportunities, including websites, there are a number of concrete opportunities that could provide that cultural wealth that should be valued with a concrete possibility of development. otherwise, it will not do much to widen the borders of the european union any further, and it will not be possible to guarantee the social cohesion that is achieved and achieved through open defiance of the territory. it is true that the instrument of political consultation must be combined as effectively as possible with the effectiveness of parliamentary activities and that resources must be used as efficiently as possible in a context in which they must be used rationally. but, madam president, if parliament is to be the true home of all the citizens of europe, much remains to be done and we want the commission to make a real effort in this direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as other members have said, the public consultation website states: participate in the european political process. consultations should therefore be a useful and effective tool for strengthening governance, for strengthening democratic participation, for making citizens aware of and protagonists of the sense of european citizenship and above all protagonists of the european decision-making process. but in fact this is only a slogan, because often these consultations are available in one language, at most in three. i want to give you a very simple example. an important consultation for young people is under way, namely the consultation on traineeships. we have been saying for months that youth unemployment has become a very serious problem for the european union, since one in four young people in europe is out of work. there are countries - i am thinking of greece, spain, but also italy, my country - where we have almost 50% of young people without work, and we also say that there are about 7 million young people in europe between the ages of 14 and 24 who are not working or studying. but obviously we expect these seven million young people to be polyglot. these young people, if they want to have a say in internships, for example, must know more than three languages of the european union. this is obviously ridiculous. i'll also give you a practical suggestion. depends on what kind of consultation it is. if it is a consultation on eurobonds, perhaps three languages may be sufficient. but if we are consulting european citizens on, for example, the year for active ageing or on traineeships for young people, that is, on very simple and very concrete subjects, we must do so by giving them the opportunity to respond in all the languages of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are in france these days for the usual outrageous monthly trip, but most of our work is done in brussels. the belgian capital, which is also the phantom capital of europe, has recently been the scene of another serious incident which shows the dangerous course this city has taken. dozens of young muslims have literally assaulted a police commissioner whose only fault was that he had detained an arab woman who had refused to show her face as required by law. there are several neighbourhoods where the police are afraid to intervene, neighbourhoods where not a single person of belgian origin is to be found. the fact that the most common name for newborns is mohammed should make us think. this parliament is always ready to give its opinion in a wide variety of areas, but perhaps it should also reflect on the situation in brussels, which is likely to be the mirror of a future europe that we do not want at all.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this resolution is very important because, until a few months ago, volunteering was a kind of mysterious object for the european union. even though it involved 100 million volunteers and 5% of the gdp produced by this world, it seemed like this sector didn't exist. and then, despite a lot of difficulties, we were able to dedicate the last year, 2011, to volunteering, and we all saw the great potential of it. states that did not have legislation on this subject have adopted it, others have modernised it, many have strengthened the activities of associations and, especially in a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing, have given an important - subsidiary - role to the non-profit world. we have taken this as a starting point to emphasize the role of volunteering within the european union, as the report we are discussing this evening shows. we started with a very good communication from the commission, which i thank for its work, and i thank the shadow rapporteurs and the officials of the groups and of parliament who helped me to prepare this report. what did we plan? firstly, a portal to inform citizens about the possibilities of volunteering in the various member states and how they can participate. secondly, the possibility of using the international labour organisation's volunteering measurement manual and the united nations non-profit organisation manual to provide comparable statistics and data that provide a clear picture of the significant contribution of volunteering and the needs of volunteers across the european union. we want to give volunteering a high profile in sport, particularly at the grassroots level. we would also like to recognise the important contribution of volunteering to environmental protection and support volunteering activities in the fields of environmental education, emergency prevention and management, and the protection of artistic and cultural heritage. we support the commission's proposal to establish a european skills passport, so that skills acquired through volunteering are officially recognised for both professional and learning purposes. a passport which is a complete document recording, at the request of the volunteer, all practical experience, training, transversal and vocational skills acquired in the lifelong learning programme, including skills acquired in a volunteering activity. we call on the commission to implement this european skills passport as soon as possible. we also support the commission's proposal to set up a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, which will increase the participation of volunteers in solidarity actions within the framework of humanitarian aid policy throughout the european union. we would like to ensure adequate funding and establish and simplify administrative procedures, including tax incentives, for voluntary organisations, including associations and networks, particularly those of small size and with limited resources, in order to enhance their role, activities and results for the benefit of society as a whole. henri de montherlant said it best: "selfless acts are the stars of the earth". volunteering has that ability. with his free activity he manages to bring the stars to our earth and plant them firmly. our flag, mr president, is made of stars, and that is why the european union cannot help but empower volunteering and its world of small, big everyday gestures.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr scurria. the european commission is very satisfied with the results of the european year of volunteering, which gave a lot of momentum to volunteering in europe and showed that volunteering contributes to our democratic and pluralistic society and lends added value to eu policies. a large and varied number of activities took place during the european year of volunteering – many of which will continue beyond that european year – and a significant number of structures put in place in 2011 have become permanent. so far, six important policy documents have been adopted as a result of the european year. mr scurria’s report on ‘recognising and promoting cross-border voluntary activities in the eu’ will be the seventh significant policy document in this series in support of volunteering. the report links in perfectly with the commission communication on eu policies on volunteering. our communication aimed to outline the ways in which the commission already supports the voluntary sector and how it plans to further improve the recognition and promotion of volunteering in the future. we agree on many points. both parliament and the european commission recommend that member states should assess the need for creating a clear legal framework for volunteering and develop appropriate national strategies to achieve that. together, we are encouraging member states to make volunteering accessible to all sectors of society and to support cooperation between providers of voluntary activities in the eu. another common recommendation to member states is that they should adopt the volunteering measurement methods developed by johns hopkins university to get a clearer picture of the role of voluntary activities in our economy. the european commission is committed to ensuring long-term follow-up of the european year and has taken concrete steps in this direction. overall, the european year of volunteering 2011 influenced positively volunteering in europe. this positive influence will continue, since it may take several more years for some of the benefits of the year to bear fruit and become tangible. the european year of volunteering lies behind us, but we are now at a starting point for ensuring that the legacy of that european year remains in place. the commission communication of last september and your report today show us ways to follow up on that year, including by developing synergies with the proposed european year of citizens in 2013. the commission looks forward to working with parliament towards our common objective to further facilitate and promote volunteering in the european union.
in writing. 2011 was the european year of voluntary activities', with a number of initiatives involving volunteers across europe in activities to promote, inform and raise awareness of this issue. recent figures show that a body of 100 million european citizens engaged in various voluntary activities can contribute to the production of 5% of european gdp. volunteering is, in my view, an expression of active citizenship in all areas of social life, and crossborder volunteering in particular is an opportunity for intercultural enrichment for young european citizens. after the visibility gained by the european year of volunteering, i think it is appropriate to concentrate action on a series of concrete measures to promote these activities. to this end, i welcome the rapporteur's proposals, including the idea of establishing a centralised union portal on volunteering with a specific section on crossborder volunteering and the creation of a 'european voluntary humanitarian aid corps'. the latter, by selecting, training and sending volunteers to provide support to local organisations in the event of natural disasters, has the valuable advantage of developing synergies with existing organisations and structures, avoiding overlapping and dispersion of funds.
in writing. volunteering enables people to do work of social benefit and to acquire skills and knowledge that should be used when looking for a job or when integrating into a particular training path. this is why the creation of a 'skills passport' should be supported: the commission will also be supporting the development of a european voluntary service to facilitate the formal recognition of professional experience across the eu, which must go hand in hand with increased funding for european voluntary activities. volunteering is in fact experienced and regulated in too different ways in the member states and the recognition of the activity provided, even if it is entirely selfless, is not uniform between the states. we therefore call for the creation of a centralised european portal to help voluntary organisations to disseminate information, improve cooperation and exchange best practice and experience, the recognition of a 'volunteer passport' which can accredit volunteering experience also for university or professional purposes, the employment of our young people while they are looking for a job, the dissemination of good practice among voluntary organisations in europe,
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing new measures today, a few months after other similar legislation was adopted. it seems to be a constant race to recover from a situation which is now difficult to recover. i do not think that putting straitjacket on the states and even proposing legal protections can solve this dramatic situation in which the eurozone finds itself. if we want to keep economic and monetary union alive, we must also find growth instruments, such as eurobonds, or measures that can in any case encourage investment. the euro has brought benefits to a few and enormous problems to many. some countries, such as germany, should understand this situation and accept some compromises, as other countries have done in the past. if this is not the case, then economic and monetary union may well end here, certainly without any great regret for us. perhaps it would be germany that would suffer the most in the end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i feel particularly responsible for the reasons for the italian delegation of the epp's vote on the two-pack. we will vote with conviction for the text which dismissed the econ committee because we want preventive checks on the budgets of the member states of the union. we want to see more rigor. at the same time, we are voting for the two-pack because we think it is the ideal complement to what the six-pack was. but the fiscal compact has not yet been ratified in many member countries. it has not been ratified in italy, it has not been ratified in germany, it has not been ratified in france. to be ratified by qualified majorities it needs a compromise. we shall therefore vote in favour of mr gauzès' report and also of mr ferreira's report, because we believe that only a compromise can put the necessary majorities in our countries in a position to ratify the fiscal compact. we shall vote in favour, including the redemption fund and the investment scrap. these are our reasons. these are the reasons for a vision which knows that at the heart of europe there is first of all a concern for peace and development and that the political families must guarantee through compromise the possibility of rigor and development for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the two-pack demonstrates that there is a legal basis for a community governance of the euro area, which this parliament had asked to be used in the reform of article 136. what we now have to assess is whether these two regulations appear adequate in the face of the crisis's precipitation and the potential of their legal basis. here the answer is clear: the commission proposal seems to belong to another historical epoch. as commissioner rehn has said, the commission is proposing a complement to the six-pack without taking into account the obvious limitations of austerity policies and economic governance that is only focused on introducing rigid constraints and not on giving the eu real powers to govern the economy. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has made important improvements to the commission's proposal, which are particularly visible in mr ferreira's report, firstly with the article on the debt redemption fund. however, several limitations remain. it is striking that the rapporteur, mr gauzès, is deaf to the proposal to involve parliament in the activation of the enhanced surveillance procedure by introducing a procedure similar to that for delegated acts. our group has, however, responsibly decided to concentrate on one point, but there seems to me to be some confusion about it. amendment no 82 is not a weakening of the stability pact and is not a classic golden rule clause. it is rather a tool to defend the stability pact and to make it effective and enforceable, including by giving the commission a greater role. the amendment is based on the concept of sustainable discipline and gives the commission the task of prioritising investment for growth and jobs when setting medium-term objectives and assessing member states' budgets. i therefore call on my colleagues in the epp to read the amendment, to reflect and to avoid this parliament appearing closed and complacent in the face of a situation which is developing throughout europe and also in the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we fully agree with the emphasis on sound and rigorous budgetary policies and we also agree with the preventive budgetary control, which will enable the european institutions to monitor and act in a timely and appropriate manner if a state does not meet the parameters. on these axes we are in full agreement. this would be an ex-post action, as the european union has not done in this crisis on sovereign debt. so on these axes we agree. we shall also be sending a clear signal to curb speculation which is international speculation. but we need an effective system of rules. however, this system of rules must be combined with development and growth support measures which affect both supply and demand. i think we cannot afford not to have a debate on this. it's two parallel axes that can and should intersect. therefore, growth must be put at the centre through effective and efficient measures. in today's debate we must not forget the political aspect either, otherwise we risk making fun of each other. this parliament must take back its priority over the systems of the states. if we really believe in europe, we must think of the common good and the good of europe. there is an unpleasant wind blowing which is promoting nationalism and demagogy over the fear of the people. here we must show that the interests of the people are more important than the interests of the party.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been following the debate all morning and the key words were: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah). all of our thinking is shifted towards stability. i think we all know that the house of europe is on fire. social tensions in our states are at an all-time high, with humiliations and suicides. i think it's time we clarified what we mean by growth. growth is jobs and gdp growth, and we have to say when and how. i believe that if this does not happen immediately, it will not be possible to meet the commitments made with everything we have agreed so far in the fiscal compact. mr. president, i have only one question: how can a country reduce its debt by up to 60% in 20 years in a recession?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is the largest donor of development aid for the largest investment in the latin american region and its second largest trading partner. this collaboration has undoubtedly brought positive results for south america, reducing poverty from 44% to 33% in just a decade and giving the country growth prospects, despite the international economic crisis, of +4% for 2012. the growth cycle in latin america has brought about considerable social and economic progress, but in many countries it has not coincided with a fair distribution of income or a reduction in social inequalities. this is why the european union is called upon to further improve the effectiveness of its aid to promote fairer economic and social growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress the importance of this report on volunteering and also to congratulate the rapporteur, with whom we had a very good exchange of views in the committee on culture, especially since parliament's attention to this subject has not been turned off after the year of volunteering. we wanted - i had asked for it earlier as a shadow rapporteur - a commission white paper on volunteering, which unfortunately was not produced, and which was intended to provide a general framework for comparing the different realities at european level, to define a status for european voluntary associations and to provide for uniform tax treatment. i find that, not having had that, this relationship fills a void and you look forward. it is important to strengthen crossborder volunteering, to remove the barriers that many volunteers face in order to have access to this opportunity, and in particular to the disadvantaged who must also be able to volunteer. i think it is very important to increase awareness of volunteering in the fields of cultural heritage, the environment and sport and to provide that in european calls for proposals volunteering work can be considered as part-financing for the purpose of access to these calls.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are about 100 million european citizens engaged in various voluntary activities. from major sporting events to cultural events, the role of volunteers is crucial, and not to be overlooked is the work of those who rush to provide help and solidarity in the event of major natural or environmental disasters. volunteering is one of the broadest expressions of active citizenship and is a crucial activity for the development of democratic values and equality within the european union. i therefore hope that high-quality volunteering will be developed both nationally and across borders and that the existing obstacles will be removed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr scurria, who, at the end of the european year of volunteering, is putting its objectives and strategies into practice. i fully share the aim of increasing the importance of volunteering and promoting cross-border regulation of it at union level. cross-border volunteering is an inexhaustible source of learning and personal growth, contributing to the development of an economically and ecologically sustainable social consciousness. to this end, i consider the three initiatives proposed in the report to be essential: the establishment of a centralised portal on volunteering, the establishment of a european humanitarian aid unit and the development of a european skills passport. finally, i hope that the strong common will to invest in a subject of such importance, which promotes the development of common values and benefits the integration process, will continue to be present.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, volunteering is a fundamental expression of active citizenship in all areas of social life. there are as many as 100 million citizens engaged in this activity, which, among other things, contributes to the production of 5% of european gdp. volunteering is not only a great opportunity for personal development and training and for strengthening civic and moral values, but also means promoting european policies and creating social capital. young people in particular must be more involved in volunteering, also because this means increasing training and thus opening up a future of employment opportunities. so, really, congratulations to the rapporteur, mr scurria, on the excellent work he has done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by voting today the european parliament is finally giving due recognition to voluntary activities, including those at cross-border level. the european voluntary skills passport certifies that volunteering is a source of learning not only on an ethical and personal level but also on a professional and work-related level. all voluntary organisations will now have the opportunity to receive more information on european funds and projects and their involvement will be facilitated by reduced costs and administrative burdens. promoting volunteering in all its forms will be one of the european union's priorities in the coming years, as a means of countering racism and prejudice and stimulating intercultural and interreligious dialogue. this is a tribute to the more than 100 million citizens who, throughout europe, work every day for those who really need it. these are values - and we must never forget them - which are the foundation of the europe we live in and which we are working to improve every day.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report rightly evaluates the criticisms and the positives of the world of volunteering and proposes important solutions for crossborder cooperation. it is essential, in view of the freedom of movement within the eu, that voluntary organisations also be able to carry out their activities without bureaucratic, economic and social obstacles. the proposal to assess skills at european level and to set up a body to coordinate volunteering is positive, as is the need to improve information networks, training and financial support. a subject which is not dealt with, but which i think deserves to be considered, is that of the two main categories of volunteers, those who do their work totally free of charge and those who receive a salary or allowance. it would be good to divide skills and areas of intervention between these two ways of being a volunteer, which, although different, are equally indispensable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from communications to finance, transport, energy, culture and health, the role of technology is becoming increasingly important. the increasing use of the internet and digital media makes the issue of cybersecurity a priority on the european agenda. information and communication technologies can only foster economic and social development if the rules in force guarantee the security of users with regard to data privacy and intellectual property rights. only full international cooperation involving member states, institutions and industry can create a sound system capable of introducing effective measures to ensure cybersecurity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the content and the report of mr kalfin, whom i thank for the excellent quality of his work. the internet is a critical infrastructure. online attacks can cause serious consequences and security risks for both businesses and citizens. this is why i support the urgency, highlighted in the report, of developing a responsive and flexible framework for action to prevent cyberattacks. as virtuality knows no borders, to make future strategies effective, international cooperation and regulation will need to be improved. in this regard, the european external action service can and should play a key role in engaging in a constructive dialogue with third countries by including, where possible, issues related to internet security in its external relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too agree with the emphasis on the importance of computerised critical infrastructures. they are important for security, for economic and trade exchanges and, in general, for improving the quality of life of european citizens. but often these critical infrastructures are not properly protected and are not properly valued. just think of the level of sophistication that cyberattacks have reached. so we need to do more to protect these critical infrastructures, including through an integrated approach, both at the eu level and at the transcontinental level - that is, the eu and the us. i believe that it is also appropriate to create and invest in cybersecurity education. i am thinking, for example, of doctoral traineeships, university courses and student training, because these are specialised information activities which, in addition to protecting the critical computerised infrastructure, provide great opportunities for our young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, information and communication technologies can make an important contribution to the development of the economy and society. however, in order to exploit this potential, it is first necessary to ensure its safety. the many controversies surrounding the current legislation on data privacy and intellectual property rights applied to the internet should lead us to deep reflection. i supported mrs kalfin's proposal because i believe that the potential of the web, both in terms of innovation and growth for european businesses, cannot be lost, especially in a highly competitive environment such as the one that exists today at global level. however, i would like to stress that i believe that the european programme for the protection of computerised critical infrastructures, including the establishment of the critical infrastructure alert information network, needs to be implemented rapidly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported mrs herczog's report, which rightly points to the need for a coherent approach to improve regulatory convergence with neighbouring countries. the fact that the european union is one of the largest purchasers of energy on global markets can in fact be considered a factor of weakness. however, the fact that we are also the largest importer could become one of our strengths if only the countries of the european union took a common negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries. i therefore share the approach taken and proposed by my colleague, particularly on the three objectives underlying the whole strategy, namely improvement and coordination at european union level, particularly in strategic areas such as research and innovation, the need for greater diversification of energy supplies and, finally, the development of common sustainable policies on a global scale.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because only a harmonized and coherent approach by the member states can make it possible to promote europe's energy objectives effectively outside the community. better cooperation on energy policy is now needed if the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and the roadmap to a low-carbon economy in 2050 are to be achieved. the commission will be able to take account of the need to ensure that the community's energy supply is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs. in this context, effective coordination with industry is essential to promote in practice those investments which can promote economic growth and development and at the same time ensure clean and secure energy. the challenge is open and europe must be able to play its part in ensuring sustainable competitiveness in our energy market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change, the constant increase in environmental pollution, industrialisation and the progressive increase in population are all posing global energy challenges. i believe that it is useful to act by strengthening the external dimension of the european union's energy policy, by taking a clear position on the diversification of energy sources and routes. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe it is essential to ensure security of supply and at the same time to promote sustainable production and consumption. i hope, however, that in future there will be greater coordination between the policies of the member states, as well as joint action and solidarity in the field of external energy policy and energy security. the importance of transparency and the completion of the internal energy market in this respect must be recognised.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the globalisation process of world markets. spain saw the closure of 188 leather and leather-related packaging businesses, due to the tendency of the european industry to move production sub-processes to non-eu countries where labour costs are lower. in view of the above, and given that spain has confirmed, on the one hand, that the egf contribution does not replace measures falling within the competence of undertakings and, on the other hand, that the planned actions, which are intended to provide support to individual workers, do not receive support from other financial instruments of the union, my vote was in favour.
in writing. − the egf, the european globalisation adjustment fund, is used to help european companies in difficulty or to encourage their development towards a balanced position in the european market. the request in question, for which i have given a favourable opinion, concerns 876 redundancies in 146 companies operating in the footwear sector in the comunidad valenciana, for which eur 1 631 565 was requested. the application, which has already received the official endorsement of the european commission, was assessed on the basis of the link between redundancies and changes caused by the financial crisis. spain classified these redundancies as a consequence of the decrease in footwear trade due to the dominance of china and india.
in writing. - i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers in manufacturing who have been made redundant as a result of the global economic crisis. the spanish authorities explain the redundancies in the comunidad valenciana region by the radical change in the distribution of footwear production: asian and chinese giants increasingly dominate the world footwear trade, with vietnam and indonesia rising in terms of production shares.
in writing. − the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund has been extended and, as from 1 may 2009, it is possible to apply for support for workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. in this respect, spain is in a deep crisis in the footwear sector, due to the impact of the imbalance between imports and exports, which is reported to be higher than that recorded throughout europe, thus generating a considerable wave of redundancies resulting also from the general tendency of the footwear industry in the union to relocate most of the production sub-processes to countries outside the european union. employment in this specific sector fell by 31.80% and 188 enterprises ceased their activities. the vote in favour supports the request for access to the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, and seeks to ensure a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement between parliament, the council and the commission, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. - i am very pleased to vote in favour of the report on draft amending budget (dab) no 2 for the financial year 2012, which activates the european union solidarity fund for an amount of eur 18 061 682 in appropriations following the floods that affected liguria and tuscany in october 2011. the commission notes that the aid granted to the beneficiaries of the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs of the operation of the infrastructure. it regrets that the council did not at the time consider the urgency of shortening the deadlines, as required by protocol no 1 to the tfeu, given that this is now an emergency solution in view of the risk of further delays in the appropriations. it is important, in the general interest, that the system be calibrated in the light of the painful experience we have faced, in order to recover greater timeliness and efficiency in the procedures for activating the solidarity fund.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of the resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2012 of the european union for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund following the floods in italy (liguria and tuscany) in 2011. it considers that this european instrument is of vital importance, since it operates in the face of serious disasters, such as the one that struck liguria and tuscany in 2011. i share the hope expressed in the resolution that in future the time-limits for disbursement will be quicker, because bureaucracy and lack of coordination between the various competent authorities are now delaying the procedure considerably. such a tool can be very effective and useful if it is able to respond quickly to the serious problems arising from disasters.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports by mrs francesca balzani. following the floods in liguria and tuscany, italy has requested assistance from the european union. the disaster, being of natural origin, falls within the scope of the solidarity fund. i would remind you that the solidarity fund is mainly intended to help in the event of a major natural disaster which has a serious impact on the living conditions, the environment or the economy of one or more regions of a member state. the conditions in the affected areas have worsened, as is always the case on these occasions, due to the tragedy of the loss of human lives, the large number of injured, the families who have lost everything and the very serious damage to homes, farms, agriculture, transport and infrastructure; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, let me applaud the volunteers of the italian civil protection who in those weeks, as in these days in emilia and lombardy and as always in the past, have shown professionalism and humanity.
in writing. - as this request for an amending budget is necessary to mobilise the solidarity fund for the regions of liguria and tuscany, which were affected by the 2011 floods, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i am very pleased that draft amending budget no 2/2012 was approved, concerning the request for assistance from the solidarity fund made by italy following the floods that affected liguria and tuscany in october 2011. as is well known, they have caused severe damage to homes, farms and agriculture by disrupting major transport networks and damaging essential public infrastructure. the vote will allow the necessary sums to be entered in the 2012 eu budget to enable the solidarity fund to be mobilised, amounting to eur 18 061 682, which represents concrete aid for the people and territories devastated by these events.
in writing. - having examined the documentation and the timeliness with which the italian government submitted its request to mobilise the fund, i fully agree with the commission's decision. my vote is in favour of the allocation of over 18 million euro for the 2011 floods in liguria and tuscany.
in writing. - the mobilisation of the solidarity fund is, as always, a european voice in support of people affected by natural disasters. the closeness of the institutions to the citizens can also be expressed in this way. i therefore voted in favour of the mobilisation of eur 18 million for the reconstruction of the areas affected by the floods of october 2011 in tuscany and liguria, in the hope that our efforts will be useful for the reconstruction of basic public infrastructure. the amount to be used for the purpose of the fund will be entered in the 2012 budget of the european union.
in writing. - my vote on the report is of course in favour. on the very day of the tragic events that struck liguria and tuscany a few months ago, i sent an urgent question to the european commission to draw attention to the tragedy that was taking place especially in genoa, the cinque terre and the surrounding areas. i express my vote with the moving images of the spirit of selflessness of the 'mud angels' who helped the people involved and with the memory of the pain still alive for those who, in those cursed days, lost their lives or those of their loved ones.
in writing. − the severe floods that hit liguria and tuscany in october 2011 caused severe damage to infrastructure, transport networks, farms, agriculture and housing. in the face of this disaster, italy requested the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, which was set up in 2002 specifically to provide assistance to regions affected by disasters. the vote in favour of mr fernandes' report will enable the fund to be mobilised, for the first time this year, for the italian regions concerned, for a total of eur 18 061 682. all this will be of double importance, as a practical aid to reconstruction and as a symbolic gesture which will remind all european citizens of the value of solidarity, which is one of the key principles on which the european union is founded.
in writing. - i can only support and welcome the european parliament's decision today to allocate eur 18 million to tuscany and liguria. i would like to stress, however, that the timing of the intervention is still unacceptable. the eight months since italy's request have shown the lack of timeliness and effectiveness of an instrument - the solidarity fund - which must be reformed as soon as possible.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament has supported, as i have, the report drawn up by mr fernandes on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the regions of liguria and tuscany. the floods that affected these regions in october 2011 caused severe damage to homes, businesses, the tourism sector and agriculture, disrupting major transport networks and damaging essential public infrastructure, resulting in a total direct damage of eur 722,5 million (estimated by the italian authorities). the amount envisaged for the mobilisation of the eusf, amounting to eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations, will make it possible to cover at least part of the costs of reconstruction of the affected areas and their economic and productive recovery, in particular to restore primary infrastructure, including water, gas and electricity supplies. while i welcome this positive result, which responds to a specific request from areas affected by natural disasters, i hope that in future there will be ever greater speed in the assessment and subsequent mobilisation of funds for areas in difficulty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the reports by mr josé manuel fernandes. following the floods in liguria and tuscany, italy has requested assistance from the european union; the disaster, being of natural origin, falls within the scope of the solidarity fund. i would remind you that the solidarity fund is mainly intended to help in the event of a major natural disaster which has a serious impact on the living conditions, the environment or the economy of one or more regions of a member state. the situation in the affected areas has worsened, as is always the case on these occasions, due to the tragedy of the loss of human lives, the large number of injured, the families who have lost everything and the very serious damage to homes, farms, agriculture, transport and infrastructure; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, let me applaud the volunteers of the italian civil protection who in those weeks, as in these days in emilia and lombardy and as always in the past, have shown professionalism and humanity.
in writing. − the 2011 floods in italy caused major structural damage in the liguria and tuscany regions and a major effort is needed to limit the damage to agriculture, public infrastructure, transport and cultural heritage. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for italy in respect of the floods which affected the regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011 for an amount of eur 722,567 million. this fund is of the utmost importance for providing aid to the member states in the event of natural disasters, but it still needs some improvements to ensure that it is disbursed quickly because, as in this case, aid is disbursed over a long period of time.
in writing. - i am pleased that the appropriations for tuscany and liguria, which were severely affected by the floods last autumn, have finally been approved. this money will certainly be useful in repairing the damaged areas. my only regret is the timing; i would have preferred a more rapid approach to bring concrete help in the shortest possible time. i will therefore work to reform the european union solidarity fund, making it easier and more immediate, that is, closer to the needs and requirements of the people. in the meantime, i hope that this money, eur 18 million in total, will be used quickly and in the best possible way. in the coming months i shall be following the work personally, returning to lunigiana and to the municipalities most affected to make a real assessment of the use and effectiveness of these european funds.
in writing. - when it comes to natural disasters which have caused victims and the destruction of entire 'tourist pearls' countries, the time spent deciding on procedures and defining the amount of aid is always too long, even if it must be acknowledged that both the italian authorities and the bodies of the various european institutions have acted without delay. i take this opportunity to ask the institutions to act quickly to help cover the italian government's costs in connection with the earthquake that never ends in emilia-romagna and lower mantua. the earthquake destroyed not only homes and artistic and cultural assets, but also factories, industrial sheds and farms linked to dairy, agriculture and agro-food activities. people want to go back to work, so we need immediate action to give the administrations of the earthquake zones the right to intervene outside the stability pact. i hope that the commission will actively cooperate in the mobilisation of the solidarity fund corresponding to the direct damage deemed admissible and not calculated exhaustively. it is a question of getting the economy of one of the most productive and organized regions in europe moving, in the belief that every euro will be put to good use.
in writing. - i am reminded of the enormous damage caused by floods in liguria and tuscany, which rendered thousands of homes uninhabitable, destroyed networks and infrastructure and caused the loss of several lives as a result of the floods. the economic damage is very high. i am surprised that the funds for the solidarity fund have not yet been disbursed in the face of this emergency. the rapidity of the fund's action is essential to its credibility and we cannot allow mere bureaucratic delays to delegitimize the instruments we have put in place. at a time when citizens are beginning to lose confidence in europe as a result of the crisis, it is crucial that the institutions respond in a timely manner, especially in emergency situations.
in writing. the european parliament is once again responding to the needs of a population hard-pressed by a natural disaster. the floods in liguria and tuscany in october 2011 severely affected local homes, farms and agriculture, causing over eur 700 million in damage. the vote finally gives the green light to the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund for a total of over eur 18 million in commitment and payment appropriations, giving oxygen to the local economy which, after many months, is still in some cases coping with the emergency.
in writing. - the mobilisation of funds to help those affected by the tragic events in liguria is a matter of urgency. the european union solidarity fund is a very important reality that unites europe's citizens much more than many political or legislative initiatives. in expressing my vote in favour, my thoughts went to the people who suffered loss and lost everything they had in the flood. given the increasing frequency of these events, i believe that the time has come to draw up, in cooperation with the european commission, a programme identifying the appropriate instruments for investing in innovation and prevention on the ground.
in writing. − the application submitted by italy in october 2012 in support of the damage suffered in the regions of liguria and tuscany due to floods which caused serious damage to homes, farms, the agricultural sector and caused a disruption of the main transport networks and thus damage to essential public infrastructure, is of common interest and raises awareness throughout the community. the total direct damage caused by the floods, according to the italian government, amounts to eur 722,5 million. the disaster was of natural origin and falls within the scope of the solidarity fund. the commission has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations. i am voting in favour today, with the hope that these funds will be allocated as quickly as possible to meet the commitments made earlier and that they will help to alleviate the serious problems still affecting these regions.
in writing. the floods that hit tuscany and liguria in october 2011 were dramatic: in addition to the deaths and numerous injuries, there were roads and railways disrupted, homes and businesses flooded and extensive damage to public infrastructure, with direct damage estimated at around €720 million. i therefore voted in favour of the entry in the 2012 union budget of commitment and payment appropriations which, through the mobilisation of the solidarity fund, will make it possible to help the victims of the floods.
in writing. - i am opposed to the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the technical management of the fund. first, i consider that the amount requested is excessive and is based on too vague accounting information. secondly, in view of the serious economic crisis we are facing and the serious problem of redundant workers in several member states, i believe that the commission should avoid unnecessary expenditure and instead internalise the tasks for which it requires the mobilisation of the fund. the fund itself will thus be able to remain available for its primary purpose: aid for the reintegration of redundant workers. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. − dear mr. president, i voted for this report because i agree with the need of finding new channels of development cooperation between the european union and the latin american region. the eu is the principal donor of development aid, the principal investor and the second trading partner in the region. the eu aid to latin america throughout these years has contributed positively to the efforts of each country to consolidate their rule of law and to reduce their pressing poverty issues. now is not the time to abandon them but to redirect cooperation where it is needed the most in order to address poverty reduction through the development cooperation instrument and the new partnership instrument.
in writing. - whereas the report calls for an improvement in the distribution of development aid and, in the light of recent developments in latin america, for aid to be redirected towards the promotion of education and health programmes and towards the sectors with the greatest impact on the fight against poverty, i voted in favour;
in writing. − the eu's development cooperation policy plays a key role in achieving the millennium development goals and international commitments on human rights, food security and environmental sustainability. we have made steady progress in advancing relations with the countries of central america, with the activation of the eu-lac foundation, with the launch of an investment instrument for latin america and with the extremely important dialogues on climate change, innovation, drugs or migration. we believe that the time has now come to give a new impetus to our development cooperation policy. the need for coordinated cooperation on request, taking into account the situation in each country and based on broader indicators than those for measuring income levels, is becoming apparent. it is important to recall that the eu's strategic partnership is based on common values and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and it is also necessary to stress that challenges such as the food crisis, the fight against climate change and the social solution to the crisis are common to the eu and latin america and must be addressed by strengthening multilateralism.
in writing. - i fully agree with the need to link progress in relations with latin america to a coherent development policy. it is necessary to develop country-specific cooperation objectives, focusing resources on the most vulnerable countries and improving policy coherence for development. i also agree with the request to the commission to maintain the volume of the development cooperation instrument for latin america for the period 2014-2020 at one third of the total geographical amount. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i agree with mr cortés lastra's report on development cooperation with latin america because i believe that partnerships with third countries are a springboard for the eu to enter the union market and, above all, a great incentive for developing countries and the less fortunate to lay the foundations for growth. promoting sustainable development in other countries at the economic and socio-political level is the basis for a better future for both the eu and the partners, which in the case of latin america are characterised by enormous disparities in wealth and social reality. investing, therefore, is not only a european interest but also a means of combating poverty and unemployment and a stimulus to growth in many south american countries.
in writing. - the report by mr cortés lastra on development cooperation with latin america was voted on today in plenary. the lisbon treaty stipulates that the union shall endeavour to develop relations and establish partnerships with third countries, promoting the sustainable development of developing countries in economic, social and environmental terms, with the primary objective of eradicating poverty. latin america has 180 million people living below the poverty line and includes ten countries that continue to rank among the fifteen most unequal countries in the world. the cooperation offered by the eu, the largest donor of development aid and the largest investor in latin america, through the association agreements signed and, above all, through development aid, is a positive contribution to the effort made by each country to consolidate its rule of law and reduce the pressing problems of poverty within it. despite the global economic crisis, the eu must continue to support latin america's key sectors, such as education and health.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that increasing the european presence in latin america could be beneficial to both sides. while the global economic and financial crisis has hit european economies hard, it has had a lesser impact on latin america, where growth prospects for 2012 are even around 4,5%. the eu's cooperation with latin america, including through association agreements and specific development aid, must be the basis for consolidating its rule of law and taking concrete action to support the 180 million people on the south american continent who still live below the poverty line.
in writing. the partnership between the european union and latin america has always been very strong, both from the cultural and commercial point of view. the union is the main donor of development aid and investor in the area. i voted in favour of the report on development cooperation with latin america because it deals with issues of importance for future cooperation between the european union and latin america in a precise and timely manner. in this period of economic crisis, the relationship that already exists between the eu and latin america must be strengthened. food crises, climate change and social problems are common challenges in these two areas. the successful resolution of the above issues will depend very much on the relationship of cooperation that will be established in the coming years. multilateralism and the strengthening of cooperation are two paths which must be pursued with determination. cooperation and collaboration with latin america, with targeted aid tailored to the specific situation and needs of each country, is not just about moving towards the millennium development goals (mdgs). this cooperation will also help to combat poverty and inequalities and stimulate economic development in the area.
in writing. − the principles of the universality and indivisibility of human rights, respect for human dignity and the principles of equality and solidarity enshrined in the lisbon treaty aim at eradicating poverty as well as increasing international relations and partnerships. fundamental in this respect, at a time of deep crisis in the european union as a whole, is the relationship between the european union and latin america, where, despite 180 million people living below the poverty line, gdp growth is forecast to be 4.5% for 2012. the eu is the largest donor of development aid and the largest investor in the latin american region, as well as its second largest trading partner. the vote in favour supports the continuation and increase of aid to latin america, ensuring that the current commitment to allocate 20% of aid to the crucial sectors of education, training and public health is maintained through the proposal for the next cooperation and development plan, without penalising those who are already falling into severe poverty as a result of the economic crisis, and thus guaranteeing the opportunity for millions of children to grow up, develop their skills and improve their living conditions.
in writing. - i support the report by mr scurria, which seeks to ensure that volunteering can develop at european level in new and better structured ways. the objectives are ambitious but very useful. especially at this stage in european history, it is necessary to promote cooperation between the eu member states and the organisations operating in them, to remove the bureaucratic constraints that often prevent access to certain activities and to recognise the skills that are effectively acquired through voluntary activities. the project aims in particular at the creation of a european voluntary corps and a european skills passport. the first would train volunteers and then coordinate them, for example by sending them to various countries to assist local groups in response to natural disasters. the second will be developed on the existing europass model.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr marco scurria, on his excellent work. the report tackles a broad and complex topic the role, meaning and future of volunteering in europe from a comprehensive and ambitious perspective. with a few reservations, such as that concerning paragraph 9 of the rules of procedure, i think that the report should be approved because of its value as a principle and because of a number of points and points of emphasis which it contains and which deserve attention and practical follow-up. among the many, i would like to mention the request for recognition of the passport of competence as a certification of voluntary activities. volunteering is already an important element in the welfare and personal services system, from a subsidiarity and sustainability perspective, and the state apparatus will only be able to provide it to an increasingly reduced extent. volunteering therefore acquires a pedagogical value which is indispensable for a full and conscious contemporary citizenship. it is important to encourage their transnational mobility as a pedagogical tool in general and in particular as a preparatory experience for knowledge and integration into an increasingly continental labour market. finally, i believe that greater mobility in volunteering also means more healthy competition, more comparison and more supply not only between ngos but also in the comparison of the ways in which member states are making the most of these civil society resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr scurria's report on a sector which, although it affects 100 million citizens and 5% of gdp, was until last year hardly regulated at european level and therefore needed more regulation. sport, environmental protection, emergency prevention and management, and the protection of artistic and cultural heritage are areas where volunteering is essential. the commission's 'communication on eu policies and volunteering: recognising and promoting crossborder volunteering in the eu' was a good starting point for the document we have adopted today, which highlights the role of volunteering within the union. the report envisages the establishment of several positive tools, including a portal to inform citizens about the opportunities for volunteering in the various member states and how to participate, a european skills passport allowing for the official recognition of skills acquired through volunteering, a measurement of volunteering on the basis of ilo and un handbooks, in order to have comparable statistics and data that provide a clear picture of the significant contribution of volunteering and the needs of volunteers across the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr marco scurria on crossborder volunteering in the eu. after the visibility gained with the european year of volunteering, it is appropriate to concentrate its actions towards concrete measures for further promotion of the activity. the creation of a 'european voluntary humanitarian aid corps' to train people who are primarily engaged in crossborder volunteering makes an invaluable and absolutely necessary contribution to society, showing the need to build a europe which is to be modelled around respect for fundamental rights and the creation of solidarity and well-being not only within national borders and not only from an economic point of view. in a society as rapidly changing as the european one, the promotion of solidarity is a valuable element; the european commission has published a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of a european approach to the problem of climate change. today the european union has 100 million volunteers helping to improve europe and the world, and i am sure that this number is set to increase significantly.
in writing. - i also support the intention, expressed in this report, of promoting and developing voluntary work on the one hand and, on the other, of encouraging the recognition of the informal skills acquired through it, by means of the creation of a european skills passport. i also think that the report analyses both the positive aspects and the critical aspects of the current situation in volunteering and proposes good solutions. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - as was also the case during the recent earthquakes in northern italy, the work of volunteers makes a fundamental and irreplaceable contribution. the voluntary sector has a european dimension. in fact, some 100 million european citizens participate in the various activities of volunteering. it is important that the european union should contribute to encouraging and strengthening crossborder volunteering, which is an important tool for improving social cohesion, for strengthening integration and solidarity, and for building european identity. parliament called in particular for the removal of bureaucratic obstacles and for the recognition of the professional skills acquired by volunteers in the course of their work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, because i believe that it sets important objectives for volunteering. although it accounts for 5% of european gdp and affects some 100 million people in the eu, it has not yet been regulated at european level. volunteering is a valuable activity from both a human and social point of view and an economic one, since it is an integral part of the welfare policies of individual countries. in this context, transnational regulation of this activity is highly desirable. i think it is also worth highlighting the positive effect that volunteering has on young europeans, especially in terms of professional and personal growth, opening up the frontiers of the generations that are called upon to lead europe in the years ahead.
in writing. − in the light of the many initiatives and debates held in the context of the 2011 european year of volunteering, it has become clear that volunteering activities are an expression of active citizenship in all areas of social life and are a key activity for the development of democratic values, human dignity, equality and subsidiarity. the figures speak for themselves: some 100 million european citizens are involved in various voluntary activities and contribute to the production of 5% of european gdp. we are convinced that crossborder volunteering represents a unique and unmissable opportunity for intercultural enrichment for our young european citizens. we therefore have a duty to support all kinds of initiatives which involve an increasing number of european countries in the joint organisation of events. unfortunately, we find that problems still persist in this area, due to linguistic and bureaucratic barriers, which can be reduced by appropriate european support policies. we must therefore commit ourselves to doing more and better. among the concrete measures we support the idea of establishing a centralised eu portal on volunteering with a dedicated section on cross-border volunteering, creating a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps and developing a european skills passport.
in writing. - my vote on the report by mr scurria is in favour. i particularly agree with the call on member states that do not have a clear or adequate legal framework for volunteers to adopt one and to develop national strategies to promote the development of volunteering activities, including the recognition of volunteers' rights.
in writing. − volunteering is a fundamental resource of our society: there are about 100 million volunteers in europe, who also contribute to the achievement of 5% of european gdp. it is therefore clear that it is important to encourage and promote the development of this culture, which places availability and generosity towards others at its centre. the report supports the need to coordinate these activities, including through the creation of cross-border exchanges, and evaluates the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, to be used in particular in cases of natural disasters and major events. the development of a european skills passport can also be useful, as it provides a guarantee of the professionalism and competence of those who work as volunteers. for all these reasons, and in view of the enormous and valuable service that volunteers of all ages perform on a daily basis, i have decided to support this proposal, hoping that it will serve to give a further boost to this vital sector.
in writing. − 2011 was the european year of volunteering. the eu has provided funds and propaganda to develop citizens' civic sense for a very important social activity whose lessons have been translated by mr scurria in a report on crossborder volunteering activity approved by parliament. the aim within the culture committee is to promote the opening of an eu portal dedicated to crossborder volunteering which, in addition to bringing jobs and social integration, will act as a steering wheel for the creation of a system of qualified and organised humanitarian aid, a real profession, that of the volunteer at the service of those in difficulty.
in writing. − with today's vote, the european parliament has once again fully recognised the importance of volunteering in terms of cross-cultural enrichment, social inclusion and active citizenship. i believe that europe has a duty to promote and enhance this activity among our citizens. i would like to stress, in the context of social capital creation and crossborder development, that the promotion of volunteering is a valuable opportunity for the european union to affirm and achieve the solidarity and socioeconomic cohesion which inspire our founding principles. to this end, i support the creation of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps and the provision of instruments to enable the training acquired to be more widely recognised for professional purposes.
in writing. - today at the plenary session in strasbourg we voted on mr scurria's report. the resolution was intended to highlight the role of volunteering in the european union. the formal recognition of skills acquired during volunteering activities can add value to a cv and should facilitate young people's career choices and job search. the skills passport could thus become an essential tool in europeans' career or training path. the committee also urges national, regional and local authorities to ensure stable funding and provide tax incentives for voluntary organisations. the aim is to give priority to small organisations with limited budgets and to cross-border volunteering activities by facilitating access to european programmes and funding. in addition, the creation of a centralised european portal can help voluntary organisations to disseminate information, improve cooperation and exchange best practices and experiences.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on crossborder volunteering activities, presented on the eve of the conclusion of the european year of voluntary service. i believe that it fills the existing regulatory gap and represents a step forward compared to the present situation. this report sets out the necessary objectives, such as removing barriers to volunteers and thus allowing them greater and easier mobility or deepening the knowledge of volunteering in areas such as cultural heritage, sport and health. voluntary activities, which account for 5% of european gdp, ensure a better quality of life for our citizens, represent a huge added value and allow for the training of young people to be increased, so that they can look to a better future in work. today, 100 million european citizens are involved in voluntary activities, a fundamental expression of active citizenship and an inexhaustible source of learning and personal growth. voluntary activities, however, involve costs, even if they are not paid, and there is therefore a need for a tax exemption. the scurria report promotes high-quality volunteering, both nationally and across borders, and makes important proposals such as the creation of a european humanitarian aid unit and the introduction of a european skills passport.
in writing. − volunteering is an expression of active citizenship in all areas of an individual's life and acts as a catalyst for social change as well as a tool for raising awareness in society and for personal development. there are so many natural and environmental disasters that affect the european union and so many volunteers who come from all over the union to provide their help, labour and solidarity, regardless of the linguistic and bureaucratic barriers that exist in the union's multifaceted territory. in particular, cross-border volunteering is an opportunity for intercultural enrichment for young european citizens. the vote in favour supported the idea of establishing a centralised eu portal on volunteering with a dedicated section on cross-border volunteering, the creation of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps to select, train and deploy volunteers where necessary, and the creation of a european skills passport to ensure the recognition at european level of professional qualifications acquired through volunteering.
in writing. − thank you mr. president, i abstained in the vote of this text because it proposes a comprehensive strategy to fight something that many experts don't consider as a serious threat. cyber terrorism is indeed an exaggerated threat and for this reason i believe that europe should not consider this issue as priority vis-à-vis most serious security matters.
in writing. − technology is playing an increasingly important role in all daily activities, from communication to financial and banking activities, from transport to energy, from culture to health. in view of the increasing use of the internet and information technology, internet security has become one of the most important policy priorities for the european union. the europe 2020 strategy, launched in 2010, has included the eu digital agenda as one of its flagship policies, setting ambitious targets for the european union's technological development. i agree with the rapporteur that the spread of innovative technologies depends on a number of crucial aspects: safety, resilience and reliability. i also believe that the potential for internet damage could result in substantial losses and security risks that could have a negative impact on a large number of european citizens and businesses. i therefore draw the commission's attention to the need to continue improving cybersecurity in the european union, including through an efficient system of international cooperation between states and transparent international standards. in this context, it is essential to ensure effective interaction between governments, business, civil society and all the actors concerned.
in writing. - i have supported the report by mr kalfin because i believe it is of the utmost importance to support and develop the eu initiative on critical information infrastructure protection (ciip), which aims to strengthen the current security system of information and communication technology structures at national and european level, by defining guidelines and with the support of enisa (european network and information security agency). in today's world, the interdependence and interconnectedness of the socioeconomic fabric is increasingly dependent on technologies and the internet, which must be secure and reliable. protecting the global network is necessary and the most effective way to do this is to ensure efficient interaction between governments, businesses, individuals and stakeholders. only an efficient system of international cooperation will achieve this effectively.
in writing. − in 2007, estonia was crippled by a massive cyber attack. in 2008, the us department of defense reported over 50,000 attacks. the list of attacks compiled by the csis study centre shows that, as far as europe is concerned, in 2011 alone, the british ministry of defence, the bbc, the norwegian national security agency, a major dutch certification body, the german federal police, the eu carbon trading market and the french public administration in the vicinity of the g20 were affected, among others. italian scholar stefano mele recently summarized the impact, including on human lives, of possible attacks on critical transport, energy, water and security infrastructure. not to mention the silent toll that cybercrime takes on private companies alone, which is about 20 billion dollars a year. the report addresses the concerns of this scenario, providing timely indications and suggesting measures to be implemented in the short term, including with regard to the defence of our economies, freedoms and citizens' rights, in particular paragraphs 10, 20, 32, 38 and 39. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − according to recent estimates, it has been calculated that 73.8% of the population in the most developed countries access the internet regularly. you have to start with data like this to understand the role of the internet in everyday life. but there is another significant statistic, which says that approximately one million people a day are victims of online crime. the scale of these figures requires strong initiatives to improve user safety. with the report adopted today, the european parliament is calling for a regulatory framework to be put in place to simplify interaction and exchange of information between governments. the commission also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances. the european union has been working for years to make online activities safer, and today's report is a further step towards making the internet safer.
in writing. - the current economic and commercial environment sees the internet as the protagonist of economic activities and practices which, until a few decades ago, existed in different forms and instruments. with the internet becoming a major part of everyday life, from commerce to personal use, from accessing public administration data to storing one's own data, it is becoming ever more necessary to strengthen its structure and protect its users. this is why i support the implementation of ciip (critical information infrastructure protection) and all policies to ensure greater security and confidentiality of sensitive data circulating on the network, so as to make it a virtual place where you can increasingly act with real-world safeguards.
in writing. − technology is playing an increasingly important role in all our daily activities, from communication to finance and banking, from transport to energy, from culture to entertainment and health. the increasingly widespread use of the internet and information technology makes cybersecurity one of the most important policy priorities for the european union and the rest of the world. the increasing use and diffusion of innovative technologies depends on critical aspects such as safety, resilience and reliability. all the latest regulatory interventions by the european commission do not exhaust the efforts to improve the security of cyberspace in the union. we agree with the rapporteur on this point. the rapid development of technology requires that the prevention of attacks on the internet, remedial actions and the resilience of the global network are based on a broad, responsive, flexible, innovative and long-lasting framework. this framework must necessarily ensure efficient interaction between governments, businesses, individuals and all other stakeholders. the european union is also called upon to play its part. it should be considered that improving the resilience of the internet can only be achieved when there is an efficient system of international cooperation and standards.
in writing. − i fully share the call on member states to develop national contingency plans in the event of cyber incidents and to provide for key elements such as relevant contact points, the provision of assistance, containment and repair in the event of cyber disruption or attacks of regional, national or cross-border scope. i believe it is also very important to encourage coordination measures at national level to ensure better coordination between the competent national authorities and to make their actions more consistent. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − in 2009, the european commission adopted the communication 'strengthening preparedness, security and resilience to protect europe from cyberattacks and cyber disruption'. the adoption of the report on computerised critical infrastructures for global cyber security reflects the commission's proposals and the demands of a new and increasingly technological world. financial transactions, trade, sensitive data, information systems and everything connected to the network need protection. to ensure this, international cooperation is necessary and it is therefore hoped that institutions and governments will cooperate effectively with each other in the implementation of the union's security measures. the internet is a critical infrastructure whose disruption could result in security risks with a significant impact on a large number of citizens and businesses.
in writing. − the increasingly widespread use of the internet and information technology makes internet security a priority. the deployment and diffusion of innovative ict, such as the internet and fixed and mobile telephony networks, smart grids, internet services such as cloud computing and the internet of things, depend on critical aspects such as security, resilience and reliability. i therefore support this eu initiative on critical information infrastructure protection (ciip) to strengthen the security and resilience of ict infrastructures both at national and european level.
in writing. - i congratulate mr kalfin on his work. by adopting this report, parliament, in the light of its resolution of 5 may 2010 entitled 'a new digital agenda for europe: 2015.eu' and its resolution of 15 june 2010 entitled 'internet governance: the next steps', aims to improve the security of cyberspace in the union and to highlight the issue of internet security. parliament also stressed that it was now obvious that the internet was a critical infrastructure which, if damaged, could pose risks and losses for a large number of european citizens and businesses. in particular, it calls for the establishment of a flexible and long-term framework, encompassing the development of technologies to counter internet attacks and ensuring efficient and secure interaction for all individuals concerned.
in writing. - the sharing and collection of data online is increasing rapidly. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the use of personal data by the member states in the context of the implementation of the directive. if serious countermeasures are not taken, the development of innovative technological applications will be severely hampered. the internet has become a critical infrastructure. any large-scale problems would mean serious security risks, affecting a large number of european citizens and businesses. the rapid development of this technology requires robust internet attack prevention policies and the resilience of the global network must be based on a broad, responsive, flexible, innovative and long-lasting framework.
in writing. − i am in favour of the text of the report as it aims to strengthen the security and resilience of it infrastructures both at national and european level. the use and diffusion of innovative ict requires ever greater security and reliability. i believe it is important that, in accordance with the principles of the digital agenda for europe, the european union can give meaningful signals to ensure an efficient system of international cooperation aimed at improving the resilience of the internet, protecting consumers and businesses.
in writing. − the internet is the main information tool, used daily by millions of citizens around the world. its strategic importance requires particular attention from the european union, and its regulation and defence against external attack are matters of enormous importance. there is a need for a coordinated effort by all european states, in collaboration with private companies, to try to limit and neutralize any cyberattacks. i voted in favour of mr kalfin's report because a large number of european companies and citizens are exposed to cyberattacks every day. the report proposes effective solutions to the problem. suffice it to mention the creation of a comprehensive plan that, through the interaction of governments, companies and individuals involved, prevents cyber attacks from happening again to make the network more secure and protected. information security is the key to european security. the protection of user data and intellectual property is a need that europe cannot and must not give up.
in writing. − the constant and growing presence of technology and information technology in everyday life, in areas such as communication, finance and banking, transport, energy, culture and health, is prompting the european union to pay particular attention to the gap between the exponential growth of innovation and the uneven growth of security systems aimed at protecting sensitive data of european citizens and businesses in the union area. the prevention of attacks on the internet, remediation and resilience of the global network are based on a broad, responsive, flexible, innovative and long-term framework, which is included in the europe 2020 strategy as one of the union's flagship policies. in voting in favour, we underline the importance of protecting europe's cyberspace, which can only be achieved through cooperation between member states' governments, businesses and all those concerned, and through common international rules.
in writing. − europe is one of the largest energy buyers on global markets. i believe that in the framework of the definition of european energy policy, we must work towards a common approach extending our sphere of influence beyond the mere frontiers of europe and, in particular, in the field of energy market rules. we need a functioning internal market which will create more competition between our external partners. in my view, also in the light of the current union objectives set out in the 20-20-20 climate-energy package, it is crucial to ensure reliable and competitively priced access to global energy supplies to support europe's competitiveness and security of energy supply. a coherent and coordinated approach by the member states, the commission and the council can allow for effective promotion of the union's energy objectives outside the union and a better contractual position vis-à-vis third countries. in this context, research, development and innovation are of strategic importance: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the report is very much in line with the commission's approach. i am voting in favour of this approach, which, by presenting a wide range of content and analytical forecasts, is firmly anchored in the principle of a common policy based on energy solidarity and cooperation as a strategy for promoting the values of political stability and global security. while it is appropriate to find ways of involving the eu more closely in negotiations between member states and third countries, it is also dramatically urgent, in a global and sensitive market such as this, to define solid guidelines in relation to key countries in terms of supply and demand, represented by the brics or, to keep even closer, by turkey as a strategic hub, especially in relation to technological and market developments which have already fully invested in the clean coal and lng sectors. finally, i would like to emphasize, as the reason for my vote in favour, the courageous positions set out in paragraphs 86 and 106, which are the hallmark of the eu's commitment to promoting universal values and human rights, beyond the contingencies and purely important assessments of a strictly economic nature.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs herczog's report because i share her call for greater security of energy supply. the european economy relies largely on imports of energy and raw materials from third countries, which makes it vulnerable to the high risks inherent in this system. the diversification of the energy mix to increase the share of renewables in it, while a valid alternative, cannot in itself be a satisfactory solution to the problem. i am therefore convinced that the european union must strengthen its negotiating position through greater coordination between member states, an increase in the number of suppliers and greater collaboration between the public and private sectors, in order to make imports more stable and less susceptible to the shifting political balances that have often put them at risk. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. − the lack of a common energy policy has been hurting the european union for years: we spend over 400 billion euros a year importing energy produced by others. it is clear that strong measures are needed. while respecting national specificities, it is important that coordination between member states is increased so that the european union can speak with one voice towards international suppliers, thereby increasing its negotiating weight. at the same time, it is necessary to diversify energy supply routes and increase information sharing. the creation of a coordinated energy policy at european level is the key to ensuring that european citizens enjoy a reliable and competitive energy policy.
in writing. - the report by mr herczog, for which i voted in favour, has the advantage of highlighting certain specific features of energy policies and relations with non-european partners on this subject. particular attention is paid to the issue of safety. this is of particular significance in the light of changes and developments in the supply of energy sources. the same applies to environmental safety, which is a subject that requires increasing attention. the points of interest are those relating to the idea of cooperation and communion which emerge from the first articles of the text and which fully reflect the spirit of the european union.
in writing. − it is essential that the european union recognises the security and development of internal fossil fuel resources as a priority, particularly in relation to the significant reserves recently discovered in the mediterranean sea, which could reduce europe's dependence on energy imports. i agree with the rapporteur that energy policy must be an integral and important part of the common foreign policy and that it should be developed and implemented in synergy with other policies which have an external dimension.
in writing. the common energy policy is the future we all want for europe. unfortunately, our energy efficiency depends on other countries, the eu imports some 400 billion energy products a year, which is why it needs a policy of energy cooperation with third countries. the text voted in parliament aims to ensure a secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply. in addition, the partnership offers the possibility to develop, together with countries outside the eu, new projects for the union's energy policies, from sustainability to efficiency to clean energy. another objective is a common energy policy, which goes beyond the interests of individual member states to ensure the common european need for common access routes to energy infrastructure corridors.
in writing. − the european union is one of the world's largest energy importers. i therefore believe that by coordinating the different negotiating positions with third countries it could increase its bargaining power as the largest applicant. a common approach is therefore needed, extending the sphere of influence beyond european borders, especially in the energy market. the european union needs a market in this area which is able to create competition between external partners and which can promote convergence with neighbouring countries.
in writing. - having participated in the working groups which, under the leadership of the previous president of the european parliament, mr buzek, were concerned with laying the foundations for a common energy policy, i can only support this own-initiative report on cooperation in the field of energy policies. if the european union could coordinate and represent the purchase of energy, including oil and gas, with third countries, it could obtain much more favourable economic conditions and greater guarantees of supply. the important point is that the choice to give the eu this role must be made autonomously by the member states, which, under the treaty, have full competence over energy supply. ensuring reliable and competitive access to energy supplies is essential for european competitiveness and for maintaining an optimal contractual position vis-à-vis third countries.
in writing. − the issue of energy security is of fundamental importance in the policies of the european union. europe spends over 400 billion euros on energy imports each year, which makes it highly dependent on third countries. coordination between member states, diversification of energy suppliers, routes and sources, extension of the european sphere of influence beyond borders, sharing of information on energy data and projects in third countries and partnership with suppliers and international organisations are the cornerstones on which the new european energy policy will have to be based. by putting these guidelines into practice and by following the european union's lead in energy efficiency and the development of new forms of energy, we will be able to achieve a secure, sustainable and competitive energy policy. the work to be done to achieve a genuine common energy policy is still long, but there is no doubt that parliament intends to move decisively in this direction.
in writing. - energy, a common good of the citizens of the union and beyond, has become a means of instrumentalising foreign policy in the last decade. europe's submission to global markets for its energy supply puts europe in a weak position but at the same time gives it bargaining power. if the whole union used this role in a coordinated way and took a firm and common negotiating position with third countries, it would almost always have good bargaining power on the demand side. the vote in favour underlines the importance of defining a common approach in conduct and dialogue with cross-border countries, not only in competition matters but also in promoting regulatory convergence with neighbouring countries that is consistent with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the european union spends more than €400 billion on energy imports each year, which shows how important the issue of energy security is on the european agenda. the key elements on which european energy policy will have to be based, in addition to what has already been done on energy efficiency and renewable sources, are increased coordination between member states, diversification of suppliers and the sharing of information on energy sources and projects in third countries.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs ashton, there is no doubt that this appointment is of extraordinary importance and that the european union, in order to be even more concrete, more authoritative and more charismatic, must take care of the weak and the vulnerable. there is no doubt that the appointment of a special representative for human rights is a very valuable thing. i would like to congratulate president salafranca on his excellent work. solidarity, responsibility and cooperation: we need to ensure that member states who develop these activities are consistently supported and we also need to have a positive con dition towards third countries which show great interest and attention in the protection of fundamental rights. this is the case with regard to the profile of trade relations. as regards immigration, we still have a number of unresolved issues concerning the protection of the fundamental rights of those who flee because they see their interests and needs trampled on in their own territory. they too will need to be treated with great respect. these are natural rights, rights which pre-exist in man and which are closely linked to the expansion of each individual's personality. the european union must therefore ensure that this role is fulfilled to the best of its ability, and the person chosen must meet two requirements: he's going to have to be a charismatic person and a courageous person who believes to the core in the role he's going to be given.
madam president, the international community devotes a great amount of time and resources to the issue of weapons of mass destruction that have a very small chance of being used. countries are invaded and wars are fought for a threat that is largely improbable. at the same time, conventional weapons and small arms kill tens of thousands of people every year and this issue is almost unnoticed. so this arms trade treaty is welcome. the socialists and democrats regret that the eu member states continue to sell large amounts of weapons to dictatorships, authoritarian regimes and countries whose leaders use weapons to suppress dissent. the same member states, on the other hand, declare their support for democracy and human rights every day. but the conventional weapons and small arms often sold by them are the material instrument of the most blatant crimes. these small arms and weapons have been extensively used in egypt, tunisia and libya against peaceful demonstrators. so, any instrument like this treaty that goes in the direction of resolving these inacceptable paradoxes and contradictions is welcomed by us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, baroness ashton, it is not enough for those with political and institutional responsibilities to express their indignation, as is rightly the case, at the horrors of syria, and i think you are aware of that. what is happening outside this house requires adequate response capacity, and frankly, i do not think that the european union's response capacity is up to the challenges we face. how long are we going to watch the carnage in syria? the difficulties arising from the fragile balance in the region are understandable. the position of russia and china, which do not allow for a more decisive initiative by the united nations, can be understood and not shared. the european union is also prepared to take action to help the syrian opposition, which is facing a serious crisis. but what is happening is no longer tolerable. the european union must move from its current activism to greater prominence. we must defeat the argument that the assad regime can do anything because the international community is powerless and because the european union, which is in the midst of an economic and financial crisis, cannot afford to intervene in the syrian situation. the decision to build a humanitarian corridor has not been implemented. but i think we have to start from there, accompanying this decision with all the instruments, no one excluded and i emphasize no one excluded , because this is an essential condition to start the process of transition and transfer of power. i think that we must move from words to deeds, and that is a task which objectively falls to you.
mr president, can i say to mrs ashton that i largely share her view of the syria crisis and i share in particular her stress on the annan plan as the only viable solution on the ground for this crisis. i do not agree with those colleagues who dismiss this plan so easily in just a few words. if anyone has any better ideas to lay down in an intractable crisis like the syrian one, then please do tell us what should be done. i also do not agree with colleagues who very superficially ask for military intervention – a sort of second libya solution with nato intervention and so on – in a completely different situation, after the disasters we have just suffered and are still suffering due to this kind of solution. the libyan crisis was a typical crisis that can only be solved through international intervention, with the blue helmets and with a large mandate to separate parties and to stop violence that comes mostly from tyrannical governments that will one day have to answer for these crimes to the international courts. in tandem with this, we have violence by rebels using heavy armaments who are funded by foreign countries and who are armed through covert operations. we do not know enough about this and we are not speaking enough about this component. this is a fourth reason why the only solution is the one that mrs ashton outlined.
in writing. many are hoping for a new role for european policy on the israeli-palestinian conflict. we all want europe to promote peace initiatives more effectively than it has done so far and to play a more appropriate political role in relation to our financial commitment in the area. to achieve this, in such a complicated and difficult situation, the european union must be credible to both sides and perceived as equally divided. both the palestinians and the israelis must be convinced that the union has no other interest than peace, without prejudice to anyone. do we really think that the european union can be considered a credible partner for israel in the light of the recent positions adopted by the foreign affairs council last may which totally ignore the legitimate security demands of israel, which is in fact surrounded by hostile countries? at a time when the hopes raised by the arab spring are being dashed and we are seeing islamic extremism prevail in the maghreb countries, what security guarantees can the eventual new palestinian state, which we all hope for, give?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i listened carefully to mrs ashton’s statement and i am not happy about what she said. mrs ashton, you spoke on the report on afghanistan by this parliament as if it was released a couple of weeks ago. we are talking about a report which was approved by this parliament in december 2010, so i would have preferred to have heard from you something about the implementation of the report in the past year and a half. you spoke a great deal about things to be done in afghanistan. some of them are absolutely reasonable and right, but you did not mention two major issues that were contained in my report: firstly, the issue of the peace process. what to do with the peace process in afghanistan is the crucial political point for the future of the country, particularly now that the military occupation is ending. the second point was the narcotics issue: the only reference you made to that was that crop substitution alone cannot solve the drug problem. of course; but no one would dissent in any way from this statement. the report contained a very detailed call for a five-year plan to eliminate opium production in afghanistan through alternative development. this plan has never been carried out in afghanistan; it was urgent two years ago and it is more urgent now that opium production is still continuing to increase. we developed also a relationship with the russian federation – along with europe the major victim of afghan opium. we had here the internal contacts responsible for the russian federation and we developed ideas and plans. russia was also ready to fund, to co-fund with the eu, a plan to eliminate opium production. nothing happened; we never had from your office any answer to that. these are the reasons i am not happy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate seems to me to be taking place on a very unfavourable ground. the debate is not about whether europe is more or less europe. today we must think of a completely different europe: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. a century ago, a certain luigi sturzo, exiled in england, writing in the english newspapers, showed more modernity of thought than that expressed by this house, which refuses to consider the problems of europe from the point of view of the territories and regions, that is, of that productive world of toil which is the world of our peoples, which is the reality of our peoples. i take this opportunity to appeal to the people of the industrial and agricultural triangle mantua-ferrara-modena, where a major earthquake has put one of the most important production centres in the european production system in extreme difficulty. however, apart from some important visits, which i must acknowledge, by vice-president tajani and mr barroso, there are no concrete issues. there is no central, area-based intervention that meets the expectations of these populations. this europe thinks from brussels like our centralist states!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president-in-office, in the streets and squares of europe we are divided just as we are in this parliament, with the difference that in the streets and squares of europe those who do not believe in europe are increasing day by day. but it is not because of the good propaganda of the eurosceptics that they are growing, but because of the ignorance and lack of awareness of those in europe who say they believe. i believe that if the council of 28 and 29 june shows a similar lack of awareness, we will be dealing a final blow to the credibility of all those who are betting on the success of the european project. i believe that the leaders of the european institutions and the leaders of the member states are at a crossroads and have a huge responsibility to shoulder. we are in danger of losing in a few days the legacy of peace and development that has characterized our history. the result of this approach and of this understanding of responsibility will be conflict between our countries in the long run. i think it is important for us all to understand that 28 and 29 june are not just any other date. it is our time that is running out and i would like this awareness to enter into the heart of each one of us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although our budget is limited, the budget for one year amounts to what can be burned in one day by the markets. the mff is very important, but on the condition that the member states do not see the budget as a source of expenditure to be cut, like all public spending, but as a resource that can help the economy to grow, that is, an investment, not as a cost to the citizens but as a way of producing tangible results. the figures are programmes, projects, things to be done. so no short-sighted cuts, no fighting between countries, because growth is a common opportunity for all european citizens. the european budget should not be seen as a separate budget but as a complement to national budgets. a new approach is needed to strengthen the link between the european budget and national budgets. in some ways, ours is the 28th budget of the same european countries. only then can we create the global mass that can develop effective policies. what we are asking for is a more coordinated approach. the european semester can also serve this purpose. finally, as regards the role of parliament - and i say this to the council - we will not accept facts or take or leave, but we want a preliminary comparison before the formal proposal for approval. we are the voice of the citizens, of those citizens who are concerned about the future of europe, and we want to be involved in the decisions as their representatives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have been increasingly talking in the european institutions about rules aimed at controlling member states' expenditure, which is certainly right but no longer sufficient in the economic context we are living in. the european economy as a whole and that of some member states is slowing down, which is why we must pay increasing attention to growth, competitiveness and development. at the next council, the member states will have to make bold and ambitious choices to tackle the development path together. in many countries europe is now seen as the problem, whereas we must make clear that europe is the solution by making strong and courageous choices. the issues of eurobonds, project bonds, project strengthening and programming for small and mediumsized enterprises must therefore be the subjects dealt with. we can't put this off any longer. europe is and must be the solution to all the problems of the crisis.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the first round of voting is now closed. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes)
ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my pleasure at being here, at the seat of the european parliament, which is the expression of a melting pot of diverse communities and cultures that make up this europe with which peru has deep ties. peru, a multilingual and multicultural country with a thousand-year history, has been involved in an intercultural dialogue with european traditions since the 16th century. i would like to highlight the contribution of distinguished europeans to peruvian causes and issues, such as the italian scholar antonio raimondi, the french admiral petit-thouars, the german scientist alexander von humboldt and the german researcher maria reiche, to name just a few of the europeans who stood for peru and the strong link between our country and the european continent, a task that endures over time and we value in its real dimension. the european union is currently peru's second most important trading partner, the main destination for our exports and with significant investments in peru. in this century, marked by an increasing process of globalisation of resources, goods and services and by a breakneck speed in the development of new technologies, peru and the european union have a common destiny and challenge to advance on the path of cooperation through the recognition of their own values, identities and projects, which, at the same time, are common in their ideals. peru is a representative democracy whose macroeconomic policies, together with the stable legal framework, have resulted in sustained economic growth and a fairly remarkable social outcome in terms of poverty reduction, reduction of inequality, higher employment rates and the achievement of the millennium development goals in general. our gross domestic product has tripled in the last decade, with growth forecast to be close to 6% this year, and we aim to maintain that growth over the next five years, despite the complicated international environment. several studies agree that this trend will continue in the coming years. this makes peru one of the major regional economies. in this context, my government has set as a priority objective social inclusion, which will come with economic growth, so that the benefits that peru has brought, its good business climate, commercial openness and investments extend to all sectors of peruvian society, in particular the poorest in our country. we need to bring the most disadvantaged into the economic circuit of wealth creation and decent employment through modernising and diversifying our production, encouraging local innovation and tapping into the development of knowledge, supporting our population to build skills and giving them the tools to be more competitive. my government intends to consolidate democracy in a way that is capable of solving the problems and needs of peruvian society as a whole but, very especially, that of the minorities of those who have been postponed and forgotten by the state. let us be clear: there can be no development and no democracy in an economy that generates inequality, poverty and exclusion. the great transformation that my government is determined to achieve is based on the process of social inclusion, that was our main commitment to the peruvian people. that is, transforming economic growth into development and well-being, transforming wealth into quality of life. peru is a country of just over 29 million inhabitants. it has already succeeded in reducing poverty from 54% in 2001 to 27% in 2012. my government has set itself the goal of lifting more than 3 million peruvians out of poverty by 2016, that is, to have a poverty rate below 20%, and to reduce as much as possible the rate of extreme poverty, which today is around 7% in peru. to this end, my government is committed to a proactive public policy of development and social investment. therefore, despite the fact that the millennium development goals have been exceeded, we continue to make greater efforts to continue reducing inequality gaps. the budget allocated to social and human capital in 2012 has thus increased by 20% compared to 2011. social inclusion allows for the transformation of the human being into a citizen and, to carry out these tasks, we have created the ministry of development and social inclusion. through this we seek to transform social programs into a unique social inclusion policy for our government where obviously we will create a set of programs of a multisectoral nature with a view to improving efficiency and focusing attention on the most needy. in this context, a series of social programmes have been developed, ranging from early childhood (the cuna más programme), through the youth population (the beca 18 programme), to the retirement stage (the pensión 65 programme), in addition to the expansion of the juntos programme of conditional transfers for the most vulnerable families and the mobile emergency assistance system (samu). cuna más is the programme for children, which has already begun to be implemented. this year it will serve more than 90 000 children aged up to three in the poorest areas of the country, providing them with food and daycare services, educational components and comprehensive health care. the 18th scholarship programme will facilitate higher education for qualified and disadvantaged young people. it is aimed at capacity building and the appropriate assimilation of science and technology transfers to diversify our productive matrix. the target for our first year of government is 5,000 fellows and 3,000 scholarships abroad in master's and doctoral degrees. the pension 65 programme provides financial support to adults over 65 who are living in poverty or extreme poverty. in this programme, my government has approved the first list of beneficiaries, comprising 126 787 adults in over 14 regions of the country. my government plans to allocate this year over 790 million dollars for social programs implemented by this ministry. other programs are the cooperation fund for social development, which promotes productive local development, and the qali warma (vigorous child in quechua) food program, which will have as its main objective to ensure food service for children in public educational institutions of initial level from 3 years of age. the increase in the efficiency and coverage of the juntos programme is essential, as it is a programme that provides direct financial incentives to households in poverty and extreme poverty, subject to the fulfilment of the commitments assumed by the mothers representing the household to care for their minor children in health and education establishments. we've expanded this program from 350,000 to 450,000 families this year. in this context, the peruvian state is making efforts to include all sectors of society in the benefits that will be brought by the trade agreement with the european union. the agreement presents an important opportunity for small, micro and medium-sized enterprises from both sides, from the european union and from peru. in peru, these types of enterprises represent 98% of all enterprises, employ 75% of the economically active population and generate 42% of the national gross domestic product. in addition to economic growth with social inclusion, a second axis i would like to highlight is the sustainable development of our natural resources and the promotion of responsible mining. the fundamental interest of my government is to promote a responsible policy in the use of our natural resources, and in particular water resources, aimed at solving the just concerns and demands which the population has expressed in various ways because of the fear generated by the implementation of certain mining projects. today we have been working on building a new relationship between the state and the mines. this new relationship will allow us to include the communities, to include the peoples of the area of mining influence, and will allow us to address the legitimate uncertainties and doubts that the population living in the area may have in a transparent, participatory way, using dialogue as the main instrument for conflict resolution, as well as strengthening our environmental policy and sustainable development, for which the ministry of the environment has been created. peru in particular and latin america in general have concrete challenges to ensure social and environmental sustainability in their development model. among the most important challenges are the change in production and consumption patterns, the promotion of business agriculture and a peasant economy that adapts to climate change, an integrated management of natural resources and water resources, a land-use planning policy that ensures the security and integrity of indigenous peoples and communities in harmony with protected natural areas, as well as the promotion and development of clean technologies that adapt to the needs of each of the many ecological floors we have. my country has ratified the main international environmental conventions. as a mega-biodiverse country and highly vulnerable to climate change, it gives high priority to policies for climate change mitigation and adaptation, conservation and sustainable use of the amazon forest and protection of biodiversity. finally, in addition to being a full member of the convention on biological diversity and having ratified the cartagena protocol on biosafety, we have signed - and are in the process of legislative approval - the nagoya protocol on access to genetic resources and have recently passed a law establishing a ten-year moratorium on the introduction and production of living modified organisms for cultivation and breeding purposes, based on the precautionary principle of protecting human, animal and plant health and the environment. however, peru is particularly affected by the indecisiveness and non-compliance of the 1992 rio agreements. the industry in peru, including mining, currently operates under a legal framework that protects the environment and includes indigenous communities in decision-making, through the prior consultation mechanism, whose law has been unanimously approved by congress, and i believe - without any doubt - that we are the first country in the world to establish a law of prior consultation with communities. (applause) in this respect, the drafting of its rules of procedure - which have already been promulgated - involved the participation of organised civil society and, in particular, indigenous communities. this will involve indigenous peoples in the evaluation of measures that may affect them. they will be able to voice their concerns and their voice will be heard. this is intended to implement best practices combining prior consultation with the promotion of private investment. on the other hand, we have taken specific measures to increase the share of the state in the revenue generated by the extraction of our mineral resources. in september 2011 a new levy on mining was approved through constructive dialogue with mining companies. these additional resources will be used for infrastructure works in the poorest areas of the country that do not have resources from the mining quota. to strengthen the policy of social inclusion, the government will promote mining or oil investment projects as social inclusion funds, which will be used to develop projects in education, health, sanitation, drinking water, public services, electricity and agricultural infrastructure. we will continue to call on private enterprise to develop human capital in the areas and create jobs for all peruvians. the development of a major mining project can take four or more years, enough time for these companies to set up specialized technical training centres in the project's areas of influence. we also think it is necessary for mining companies to have a guarantee fund which would be triggered when there is any environmental damage. we need to strengthen the corporate social responsibility of all mining and extractive companies that come to my country. respect for and protection of human rights will be a fundamental pillar of the policy of the peruvian state, not only at the domestic level but also in the field of foreign policy. peru is a party to and strictly observes the provisions of the eight major international human rights treaties. my country is currently a member of the united nations human rights council for the period 2011-2014. we are committed to building a culture of peace, not only to ensure that acts of terrorist violence are not repeated, but to initiate a process of confidence building, pacification of the country and consolidation of democracy. thanks to the support of the european union and countries such as germany and sweden, as well as the united nations development programme and the resources allocated by my government, we hope to complete the construction of the 'place of remembrance' museum by the end of this year. peru has also ratified 67 ilo labour conventions. my country remains strongly committed to promoting decent work opportunities in conditions of freedom, security and equality, as well as improving social security, strengthening dialogue and promoting the guarantee of labour rights and freedom of association. the interaction between the state, the committee on freedom of association and the ilo commission on the application of standards is fluid and permanent. i would also like to emphasise that the country has different national mechanisms to ensure implementation, monitoring and inclusive dialogue on such issues, such as the national human rights council, the national labour council and the recently organised economic and social council. with this support we have achieved in the first year an increase in the minimum living wage, a promise we made to the country in the election campaign. the trade agreement with the european union clearly reflects this commitment by containing disciplines developed under a trade and sustainable development approach that reaffirm the core ilo conventions. i would like to emphasise that my government is determined to work in concert with the democratically elected local authorities and civil society institutions. my government is firmly committed to this purpose and has declared a frontal struggle against issues affecting security, such as narcoterrorism and drug trafficking. peru has allocated nearly $100 million of its own resources in 2011 to combat this phenomenon. peru has reduced the growth rate of coca leaf crops by 2.2%, from an average of 5% per year in recent years. on the other hand, peru has been implementing sustainable alternative development programmes which are already benefiting 84 000 families, which has meant expenditures of more than 100 million dollars per year. the concern of peru in the fight against drugs is permanent and we have to work together with the european union. ladies and gentlemen, peru is a country that respects what it signs and maintains legal stability that generates confidence. the agreement concluded between peru and the european union - which is about to be signed - is a fundamental partnership of multiple and reciprocal benefits which will contribute to promoting development with social inclusion, thus projecting us towards the century that is just beginning. this is a good opportunity to express my appreciation and thanks to the european parliament for the adoption of the report on the definition of a new policy of cooperation with latin america. the european parliament, supported by 640 meps, has recognised the need for coordinated cooperation which takes account of the situation in each country and at the same time is based on broader indicators than those measuring income levels. this will contribute, in the case of peru, to the efforts of my government. in conclusion, i should like to say that this process of multilateral agreement began several years ago in the andean community of nations. for various reasons, it has been reduced to two countries: colombia and peru. today is a chance. latin america has a very important economic strengthening, but not everything is perfect. we have our own problems and one of our weaknesses is that we are exporting countries of raw materials. we, the citizens of the latin american region, need to break down this barrier, to stop being primary exporting countries and to start on the path you started decades ago: industrialization, the domination of science and technology. that is why it is important for us that this agreement should ensure that peru has access to technology transfers, fair and reciprocal trade, that we can both use this agreement not for the benefit of economic lobbies but for the benefit of our citizens, that this agreement should be an important step towards the integration of america with europe. and we have to understand that america is not just the united states. america is peru, it's chile, it's colombia, bolivia, ecuador, panama, mexico and so many other countries, and, today, america is fine, it's an investment opportunity. today we express our solidarity with the serious crisis in which the european union is now found. today we say to you that we hope that the cloud that is bathing the skies of europe will not reach latin america. we from our territory blow to prevent that cloud from arriving, but we have done our job. we are prepared to deal with this crisis and that is important; that is, we, in this multi-party agreement, also contribute, we come with our bread under our arm and we want to work in a transparent, open, cooperative and mutually beneficial way, in a way that is beneficial for both sides, the two-way street, not just the one-way street. that is why i have come here today, and it is important to me, because i, like ollanta humala, have always had a critical discourse on free trade agreements. but today, as president for ten months, i have to respect the policies of the state and we have to do it well. that is why i firmly believe that the signing of this agreement will benefit you and it will benefit us. i firmly believe that if we go alone, we may go a little fast, but if we go together, we will go further. (applause) i would like to thank
the next item is the continuation of the voting.
that concludes the voting.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has proposed to review the system of generalised tariff preferences which the union has granted since 1971 to goods entering the european market from developing countries. although the new criteria for preferences will reduce the number of beneficiaries by about half, i believe that the system continues to provide a real opportunity for these countries to increase their international trade, generating revenue to be used for income growth, sustainable development policies and poverty eradication.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased with the agreement reached in the trilogue on the negotiations for the new gsp regulation, both because of the complexity of the regulation itself and because of the political value and the marked differences which characterized the debate. in the present situation it is essential to ensure that european small and mediumsized enterprises with similar industrial sensibilities, especially in the textile, leather and agricultural sectors, are able to compete on international markets by carefully assessing the various preferential treatment which the union grants to our main partners. we cannot allow countries which have proved to have a competitive economy, such as brazil, russia, argentina, etc., to be helped by tariff reductions to enter european markets to the detriment of our manufacturing sector, which has been suffering for years now from the consequences of the financial crisis and protectionist choices on exports and procurement from the same third countries. we are therefore in favour of greater control over the principle of differentiation, thus avoiding the favouring of countries with offensive interests in strategic european sectors, and we welcome the strengthening of the safeguard clause extended to textiles as well. we also thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i certainly appreciate the fact that the number of countries benefiting from this system is being considerably reduced. it is right and proper to support with favourable trade policies only those states which are really in difficulty, and to concentrate on those where our intervention can be most beneficial. however, according to the calculations, pakistan should also be among these new beneficiaries. it is a country with a very developed textile sector, thanks also to the existence of economic and social rules which severely penalise our companies. i come from a town, prato, which was one of the first textile districts in europe and which has suffered badly in recent years from unfair asian competition. i am therefore opposed to this agreement which includes pakistan, as i was opposed to the removal of duties for that country because of the floods in 2010. trade aid must be targeted, but it certainly cannot lead to the death of entire european manufacturing sectors, as might be the case with the further invasion of pakistani textiles.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with today's vote parliament completes the package on european governance already approved at the end of 2011. the continuing crisis affecting the whole of europe has made it necessary to strengthen the economic and budgetary surveillance of those member states which see their financial stability in the euro area at risk, effectively giving the union's supervisory bodies the power to intervene if necessary with the appropriate preventive tools.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal raises questions because it would give the commission greater powers of control over the fiscal policies of the eurozone countries but without any counterpart for greater democratic control. greater powers mean less sovereignty for the states, and that is fine, but not without transferring control to parliament. the democratic deficit will increase if parliament does not have a stronger role. the second reason for concern is the budget cuts and the policy of strict austerity imposed by the executive, with no proposals for investment in growth and development except for the amendments which fortunately passed in this house. we have seen that policy has failed so far: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. to continue in this direction would be unreasonable and masochistic. let us take the delors white paper as an example. it was 1993, 19 years later, and we're even worse than before.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i think it is important that parliament should express its respect for a document which i hope will also be brought to the attention of governments at the next important meeting on 28 and 29 june. with the vote on the gauzès report we said as a european parliament that it is not possible to accept ever stricter control rules without a balance of power in the direction of democratic participation. parliament must be there. it is important and desirable to strengthen the link between surveillance and the conditionality of financial assistance programmes, but it is equally important that the conditions for this should be established together with those who represent the european people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am making a joint declaration of vote, including mr ferreira's report, because i believe that the time has come to overcome the contradiction between growth and rigor, which is in danger of becoming stagnant. we have actually made a statement today in favour of growth and at the same time in favour of recovery. it is a contradiction when we say that we do not want to approve a report such as that of mr gauzès - on which i have abstained for the reasons i shall give - and at the same time we call for a consolidated budget, a european budget, a fiscal union. we need fiscal union, we need to monitor the budgets of the member states and at the same time encourage growth, also with the amendments we tabled and voted for in mr ferreira's report. so i think we did something important. we have done so even though there is a chapter in mr gauzès' report, chapter 10, which is a negative message to the markets, because it concerns controlled default procedures, which we do not even have to communicate at the moment, because we have to communicate to european public opinion that we want to go ahead with the euro and that we want to go ahead with greater integration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too voted in favour of this document and the other two-pack documents because i believe that they can be an important element for stability and at the same time for growth. we do not think that these measures alone will be enough. we believe that it is useful, however, that at a time of serious crisis such as the one the european union is going through, parliament should take on an even more courageous role than it has so far played, just as we believe that development, employment and the labour market go hand in hand with a mechanism for verifying the budgetary policies of each member state, because rigor is extremely important. the european debt reimbursement fund is one instrument that can be useful, as is the one concerning the coordinated annual framework for the issuance of public debt. the role of the european investment bank is greater in achieving the budgetary, political and fiscal union which is the essential port of call for the growth and development opportunities we feel and fully appreciate the need for at this stage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, unlike mr pieper and for exactly the opposite reasons. with the two proposals for regulations which were tabled last november, the commission said that if we are to achieve real risk sharing, we must first ensure greater responsibility sharing. the vote we have taken in this house on mr ferreira's report, and in particular on the amendments with which we have begun to pave the way for the redemption fund, project bonds and the scrapping of investments, has reiterated the same concept by simply reversing the order of the factors. if you want more responsibility sharing, you have to share the risks. in other words, if we want stronger governance and budgetary surveillance, we must also introduce forms of joint issuance of public debt and share the risk.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to establish a special representative for human rights is a result of the treaty and a series of requests from parliament. although the appointment is made by the council on a proposal from the high representative, it is essential that parliament and the commission also have a say. he also asked to be allowed to intervene in the election procedure and to have responsibility for monitoring his work by means of hearings before the committee responsible. the human rights officer should provide an annual report on his or her activities to the council, the commission and parliament. i hope, however, that the new body which will be set up will be able to separate the protection of human rights from financial interests, because i do not think it acceptable, for example, that many states are too tolerant of china's violation of human rights in tibet simply because china is an economic power.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has always implemented all international agreements on the arms trade. i believe that the sector should be regulated by providing operators with a clear and common regulatory framework. it is also important and necessary to distinguish between weapons for military use or possible military use, which should be regulated separately, and weapons for sport or recreation. if these efforts are not supported, the european manufacturing sector, in particular civil and sporting arms, will be penalized. once again europe is in danger of failing to protect our small and mediumsized enterprises which export weapons all over the world and which could be unilaterally subjected to greater restrictions by legislation which tends to put a sporting weapon on the same level as a tank. fortunately, this morning an amendment by a political group was rejected which proposed a ban on the export of all types of arms, without any consideration of the damage that such a choice would cause to our economy.
in writing. − despite her young age, ms ivanova has gained professional experience in banks, multinationals and the bulgarian government, which has allowed her to acquire skills in financial management not only in the public sector but also in the private sector. in view of your background and your commitment as vice-chairman of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament, i consider you to be a suitable candidate for appointment as a new member of the court of auditors.
in writing. - the united nations is by its very nature subject to scrutiny, sometimes tainted by partisanship or political prejudice. however, it is impossible to dismiss the recurring problems of legitimacy and adequacy in the light of the proven instances of maladministration and the history of lack of response to global challenges and the need for consistency with universal values such as peace and civil, religious and economic freedoms. in direct terms, the report addresses these two nodes, building on the shared assumption that a strengthened partnership with the eu can strengthen the un in a wide range of activities, such as cooperation, conflict prevention, peace-keeping, and the promotion of governance models that, while preserving diverse cultural traditions, respect human and civil rights, with positive effects on global stabilisation. despite the difficulties in the process of integration, the eu has a more cohesive profile in terms of its cultural fabric, governance philosophy, core values and strategic interests than the united nations. in this sense, it seems reasonable that the eu, considering its financial and operational contribution to the un, should work towards a more assertive role on the international scene. the report, in its recommendations, therefore meets my favourable opinion.
in writing. − we call on the council to take all possible initiatives to strengthen the coherence and visibility of the european union's action as a global actor at the united nations, and to work closely with the member states to improve coordination, transparency and the exchange of information. the pursuit of effective multilateralism in foreign policy is not only one of our fundamental objectives, but also one of the union's main strategic interests. we therefore need to engage more actively with strategic partners and other bilateral and multilateral partners, in particular the us, in order to promote effective solutions to the problems affecting both european citizens and the world at large, including the poorest and most vulnerable. the operational partnership should therefore be strengthened and strategic coherence and effectiveness for peacebuilding promoted, based on the concept of strengthening the eu's dialogue and mediation capacities. our international efforts must be directed towards ensuring that all human rights, as recognised by our treaties as well as by the un conventions, are considered to be universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. i particularly agree with the need to strengthen international efforts to ensure that all human rights recognized by the un conventions are considered to be universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated. we must also help to strengthen national capacities to meet international human rights obligations. finally, it is right to stress the need to guarantee the right to freedom of religion and belief for all.
in writing. − with regard to the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the priorities of the european union for the 67th session of the united nations general assembly, i consider it necessary to define a comprehensive international framework for the period after 2015, with the following key objectives: enhancing the application of innovative financing mechanisms to achieve climate change objectives, focusing on the assessment of successes and failures against current targets achieved and not achieved; fully pursue the objectives of rio + 20; renew the commitment to food security in member states and to stimulate agricultural production capacity, infrastructure, new enterprises, access to technologies, human and social development in the least developed countries; fully support the central role played by the united nations, in particular the office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs.
in writing. − at a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing, the european union needs to strengthen its cohesion in order to remain a key player in the international political context. given the importance of a strong and stable eu-un partnership for the work of the united nations, the union is called upon to engage on several fronts to strengthen the international criminal justice system, to further ensure the protection and recognition of human rights, to promote the culture of democracy and the rule of law, and to take a leading role in global climate governance by supporting biodiversity and climate protection in developing countries.
in writing. the report, which i welcome, completes a courageous effort to rationalize and adapt the gsp to changing economic and geopolitical conditions, while safeguarding its incentive value for development and cooperation and thus, ultimately, for stability and security. while for many countries the status of gsp beneficiary was superseded by free trade agreements with the union, in other cases the gsp beneficiary status was clearly a legacy that was superseded and no longer in line with the objectives of the system. the sensitive issue of the so-called gsp+ countries remains, but it can be addressed in the light of the experience of the reform itself, as it will evolve in the application of the provisions contained in the delegated acts, including in the context of the five-yearly review. similarly, it is desirable that every possible care be taken in monitoring the implications at regional level of the possible co-existence of signatories to free trade agreements and of countries with gsp status. i have no doubt that any inadequacies would be detected in a timely manner, also in view of the close monitoring of the threshold and the competitive value of imports. the overall result is a more streamlined, transparent and certainly adapted to the pace of relatively rapidly changing economies.
in writing. − the system of generalised tariff preferences needed a definition that would improve the status quo and make the application of these procedures uniform and, at the same time, contingent on the particularities of the individual member states. to this end, it is important to introduce evaluation and monitoring tools which enable tariff preferences to be applied and adjusted to new economic, social and technological circumstances. my vote in favour is therefore an incentive to continue along this path, on the one hand, and to keep in mind the changing conditions of increasingly globalised markets, on the other. this will make it possible to avoid favouring or disfavouring member states which would be in a very unfavourable competitive situation.
in writing. − while we must monitor the effects of these measures closely in the future, i agree with the rapporteur's proposal that the revision of the gsp system should seek to extend benefits to the poorest countries remaining in the system, in order to increase development potential.
in writing. - i congratulate mr fjellner on his work. the adoption of this report, in the light of articles 294 (2) and 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in the light of the report of the committee on international trade and the opinion of the committee on development, represents parliament's intention to introduce several changes to the rules on imports of products from developing countries, with the aim of 'concentrating import preferences on the developing countries most in need'. the scope should therefore be extended to certain products which are important to developing countries, while taking care not to affect the preferences of the least developed countries for products which are essential to them. in addition, the proposed reform highlights two fundamental needs: the need for a more targeted grading system and further promotion of fundamental human rights, labour and the principles of sustainable development.
in writing. − developing countries need to participate in international trade, as their increased presence would enable them to generate additional export earnings, supporting income growth and the implementation of sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies. the revision must now succeed in extending the benefits, especially in the poorest areas, by increasing their development potential and also by including products of particular value to developing countries.
in writing. - my vote on the fjellner report is negative, despite the fact that the european commission's proposal is certainly an improvement on the previous generalised system of preferences and despite the fact that the council, in its negotiations with parliament, has introduced further restrictive elements for the gsp+ system. unfortunately, however, a country like pakistan, which in the textile sector represents a serious threat to european companies which are still resisting in this sector, will soon be able to make use of the gsp+ instrument. i don't think that's a good thing. access to these trade preferences had to be further restricted. that is why the northern league voted against it.
in writing. the european commission has proposed to review the system of generalised tariff preferences, in force in the union since 1971, in relation to non-reciprocal trade preferences for goods entering the european market from developing countries. although the new preference criteria will reduce the number of beneficiaries by about 50%, i believe that this system will be a real instrument for increasing the gdp of developing countries and will be implemented through measures to overcome the critical problems in these countries and will be a real fight against poverty.
in writing. - we have approved the two-pack, the two reports which, together with the six-pack voted last september, complete the package of reforms concerning european rigour and governance, with a view to achieving economic stability in the euro area. i have given my support to the gauzès report, which i believe is vital for real growth. growth must start in europe, not only to set in motion a financing mechanism for the sectors which favour european growth, such as infrastructure and research, but also to enable the member states to keep to their commitments. the growth tools are: forms of debt mutualisation, such as the european redemption fund, proposed by the german economic council in november 2011; the issuance by eu financial institutions of bonds, which are intended for infrastructure investments and which are subject to a golden rule excluding them from the deficit accounts; the commission has also proposed the creation of a european deposit insurance scheme to avoid the run on the bank's doorstep in the euro area. this vote is an important step towards a genuine union, which is monetary, economic and political.
in writing. - i have chosen to vote against mr gauzès' report because it reiterates, for the umpteenth time, the terms of an analytical approach which i did not consider and do not consider to be valid and which, over time, has contributed decisively to the worsening of the economic and social situation in europe. i have refuted and challenged the theory that the root cause of the crisis is the large number of countries which have failed to put their budgets in order. on the contrary, the facts show that it is a crisis of growth and lack of investment. in the face of this reality, the recipe that is being proposed to us is wrong and will prove to be counterproductive once again. we have fought a hard battle against that in the past, opposing and not voting for the six-pack. since then, in the face of a worsening economic and above all social situation, rather than calling for a reversal of course and a radical change of pace, we have been backtracking by removing those economic analyses which, in reality and unlike those of the right which have brought us to this situation, we know to be correct and potentially capable of putting a stop to that drift which is becoming irreversible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. i am very sad to see the negative effects of this social depression, if that is what you want to call it, and i am firmly convinced that we must act quickly to avoid a worsening of the global economy. the treaty requires them to regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern, driven by a need for sound finances that cannot jeopardise the functioning of economic and monetary union. the stability and growth pact itself stresses the need to create incentives for prudent budgetary management, avoiding of course excessive government deficits and strengthening the monitoring procedure. this monitoring will help us to identify risks and to take responsibility in a timely manner. the european union, as the commission has said, must share responsibility, and this, in my view, also implies sharing the risks. only then can a coordinated and highly supervised budget be guaranteed.
in writing. the arab spring revolution has just celebrated its first anniversary. the nascent democracies of morocco, tunisia, libya and egypt are still struggling to find their own democratic forms and the necessary legitimacy among their peoples. the difficulties facing the economies of these countries compel us, as the european parliament and, more generally, as the european union, to adopt policies in line with our values of solidarity. in the past i have spoken out against measures to favour these countries by abolishing duties on certain agricultural products, as was the case with the controversial eu-morocco agreement. but i'm criticizing the method, not the goal. that is why, in this particular case, i voted in favour because i believe that extending the geographical scope of operations of the european bank for reconstruction and development is an important measure. this is provided that the real needs of these countries are taken into account and that the quality of investment is such that it does not adversely affect the economies of the member states.
in writing. - i am in favour of the so-called two-pack. i agree with the text which dismissed parliament's committee on economic affairs. the budgetary controls of the member states must be carried out in advance: i think it is right to demand greater rigor. this also applies to the redemption fund and the investment split.
in writing. i voted against this report on the surveillance of states in financial difficulty because we cannot allow third parties, institutions which do not represent any citizen and are devoid of any popular legitimacy, to even think of determining the economic and financial policies of the member states, even to the point of legal protection. the european commission should simply indicate the way forward and the objectives to be achieved, but the various countries must remain free and sovereign as to how they will intervene, since there are situations and realities which are extremely different from one another and brussels cannot have a fair and equal solution for all. it is also a new proposal on economic governance, coming a few months after other similar measures in this area. the commission is continuing to try to save a sick eurozone, but i do not think that this is the right recipe.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the rapporteur points out that the serious economic and social consequences faced by some member states today could have been avoided if preventive, timely and targeted measures had been taken. but the european union lacked the necessary instruments, a gap which is now being filled by combining the six-pack on european economic governance with two new dossiers, providing that a member state whose currency is the euro must be subject to enhanced surveillance when it is exposed or is likely to be exposed to serious financial disturbances. the commission will take the necessary decisions in this respect and the council may reject them by a simple majority within 10 days. it is also proposed to create a legal protection regime applicable to a member state which is likely to be in a situation of permanent default or suspension of payments.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis that began in 2008 actually opens up a deeper reflection on the economic and social problems that this crisis has caused. the economic and budgetary surveillance procedures of the member states must necessarily take account of the sharp slowdown in growth in the union and the serious budgetary difficulties for the member states. i therefore support the objectives which the community as a whole must pursue, not just by focusing on the budgetary positions of the member states, but by supplementing this instrument with investment in the labour market, public investment in training and research to increase the competitiveness of the member states and incentives to consumption, thus maintaining a constant internal gdp to better withstand the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the two-pack which, with the six-pack, completes the part concerning rigour and governance for economic stability. i also gave my support to important amendments, which i consider vital, concerning real and concrete growth, starting from europe, in order to enable the states to keep the commitments they have made to europe. this growth consists of: debt mutualisation, a european redemption fund, a proposal made by the german economic council in november 2011; the issuance of bonds by eu financial institutions for infrastructure investments, to which a golden rule is to be applied to exclude them from deficits; the commission has also proposed a european deposit insurance scheme. this vote is an important step towards monetary, economic and also political union.
in writing. - i have chosen, albeit painfully, to vote against the report because i believe it is absolutely inadequate and inadequate to meet the pressing and growing urgencies of the social and economic crisis. i have voted against because i think the report's opening up to growth is totally inadequate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the redemption fund, the opening to eurobonds and chapter 3 as a whole were approved by a very risky majority, due to the strong opposition of the conservative forces who, after having collected the consent to the austerity measures, did everything to boycott any reference to investments. this says a lot about the council's attitude. we must find the courage to take our ideas and our instruments back to the fore. if we do not, we shall be complicit in the stupidity of the conservative forces and their inability to change the destiny of europe.
in writing. - the current global crisis has made it clear that there is no political dimension to economic governance, especially in the european union. when, in 1988-89, european leaders courageously decided to launch the process of convergence of the economies of the member states towards the single currency, both by completing the internal market and by coordinating the economies of the member states, it was emphasized with force and a europeanist vision that this objective could only be fully achieved by combining the pillar of monetary governance, with the autonomy of the european central bank, with the pillar of economic governance, with the commission, council and parliament. the future of the european union can only be built on both pillars. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. just as at national level the different economic growths in the regions are compensated by a single state governance, including through a common participation in the public debt, so it must happen at european level in the relationship between states, whose relationship must evolve by inverting common, cooperative and solidary destinies. this report and the amendments adopted seem to me to support this view.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. in this, i have voted strongly in favour of eurobonds and the redemption fund, in contrast to the line of my group, the epp. i voted in favour of the amendment in favour of the golden rule for the disengagement of investment from the deficit and i regret that this amendment did not pass. with the current scenario, it's time to act and fast: we have seen that it is not enough. we must mutualise debt while demanding austerity and above all support growth before it is too late. the european union must assume shared responsibilities, and this, in my view, also implies shared risks.
in writing. - i think the regulation is a good proposal because it sets out some additional monitoring provisions for national budgetary policies, proposes a common timetable and calls for stricter control of the decisions taken by member states subject to an excessive deficit procedure. fiscal policy should be in line with the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to overcome the crisis and move the economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, coupled with high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
in writing. − six proposals make up the overall legislative package to strengthen economic governance in the eu and the euro area approved by the european parliament and the council in november 2011. four of the proposals concern the financial question and two concern the macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area. as regards the increased monitoring of the processes in countries with large budget deficits, and the commission's request to increase the provisions for national budgetary policies, i am voting in favour, while also stressing the need to align these upgrades with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which is aimed, among other things, at helping the eu to overcome the crisis and to move its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - already from articles 1 and 2 of its statute, the ebrd is distinguished from other regional investment banks for the purpose of accompanying the transition to complete democracies, supported by robust material constitutions of western culture, through the growth of the private sector and the orderly conversion of centralized and state economies (also in their oligopolistic version) into mature and functioning market economies. the countries of the south-eastern mediterranean have many similarities with the specific cases for which the bank was set up. i am thinking of the weight of state industry in their economies, a factor in slowing down development and often an incentive to inefficiency and corruption. this is a state of affairs which, by the way, has been systematically exploited by radical and islamist political organizations. as the union's member countries are generally the leading trading partners in the region, it is clear that the ebrd should be reconfigured to support cooperation policies in the region, particularly in the context of stabilisation, the growth of the middle classes and the promotion of a moderate and reformist culture. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr binev's report on the activities of the european bank for reconstruction and development because i share the rapporteur's proposals. the ebrd was set up in the wake of the collapse of the soviet bloc to help the countries of eastern europe to rise from years of oppression. now that many of these countries have become part of the european family, it is more appropriate than ever to take account of other geographically close realities. today, especially as a result of the recent political events which have revolutionized the political landscape of the southern shore of the mediterranean, with the collapse of many of the regimes which had characterized the last decades, the need has emerged to provide adequate support to these countries as well. i believe that we should strengthen cooperation with those who are proving to be strategic partners in the commercial and, possibly, political fields, encouraging and supporting initiatives that stimulate their progressive transition to efficient and inclusive market economies, so as to enable the people to enjoy the benefits of progress that have been denied to them for too long.
in writing. - believing that the extension of the mandate of the european bank for reconstruction and development to the south-east mediterranean area could promote the development of the region and reduce migration from its member countries to europe, i voted in favour.
in writing. the adoption of a new economic governance for the european union is a crucial step in bringing the entire continent out of the crisis. proposals such as the 'two-pack' which are geared towards support on the one hand and careful monitoring on the other, are concrete responses to the difficult times we are going through, together with the other 500 million european citizens. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that legal safeguards for countries at risk of default are very necessary and are synergistic with the proposal for economic surveillance. this aspect should not be seen as a 'compulsory' imposition, but as aimed at protecting the economic and social interests of the european union as a whole. finally, these initiatives cannot solve the situation without support. they must necessarily be accompanied by new and decisive measures at european level. firstly, policies which are no longer a symbol of rigidity but a beacon of growth and development, such as the fight against youth unemployment, must be adopted: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of extending the activities of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to the countries of the southern and eastern shores of the mediterranean, such as egypt, morocco, tunisia and jordan. these countries are crucial in preparing important investment projects for the creation of inclusive markets for people and investment measures aimed at energy development and eco-sustainability that will serve as a good practice for other states in the arab world.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the european bank for reconstruction and development should be encouraged to apply a country-specific approach and to take into account factors such as the revolutionary context, the role of extremist forces and the role of military and monarchical political structures.
in writing. the esrb was set up to help the countries of central and eastern europe and the countries of the former soviet union transition to a market economy following the collapse of the communist regimes. unlike other international multilateral banks, which require the mediation of national governments, it can invest directly in direct shareholding, merchant banking and venture capital. the extension of the operation of this instrument to the south-eastern mediterranean region finds its undeniable coherence in the events that took place in that area at the end of 2011 and commonly known as the arab spring. the eu cannot fail to show its solidarity in the difficult transition under way, contributing with its own financial instruments to promote the economic and social growth of the populations concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to extend the activities of the european bank for reconstruction and development to certain mediterranean countries. the esrb was originally set up to help develop and reconvert the economies of eastern european countries which had been emerging from decades of socialist economic model. in this area it has managed to operate quite well, with satisfactory results. over the years, the scope of the institution has expanded considerably, covering many central asian countries and even mongolia. it seems to me, of course, to be more than reasonable that the ebrd should also operate in certain states much closer to our borders, for which supporting action can mean development and, as a result, a brake on possible new waves of migration. of course, the measures must be accompanied by certain guarantees of transparency and compliance with well-defined criteria, which are essential especially in this area which is still not well established. finally, the bank's capital will not be increased, but it will simply be a matter of diverting funds from other areas, far removed from our reality and our interests. this was a prerequisite for our support for this initiative.
in writing. − the role of the european bank for reconstruction and development is to stimulate the recovery of economic and commercial activities through the reconstruction of infrastructure and services where necessary. the eu must beware of the events in the southern mediterranean countries, historically vital trading partners. these cross-border areas, following the arab spring, need new incentives for economic and socio-political growth. the european interest is to ensure and help reconstruction and growth by rebuilding the socioeconomic fabric to stimulate investment and prevent illegal immigration. i therefore welcome the geographical extension of the operations of the ebrd to the south-eastern mediterranean.
in writing. - on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision to extend the geographical scope of operations of the european bank for reconstruction and development to the south-eastern mediterranean, i express my favourable opinion, being in favour of opening up markets by promoting private initiative and entrepreneurship in the countries of central and eastern europe which recognise and apply the principles of multi-party democracy.
in writing. - the recent social upheavals in the african and asian countries bordering the mediterranean have led the european union to provide adequate support to these countries, which play an important role not only in terms of political stability but also in terms of trade. i therefore expressed my support for mr binev's report, which proposes to extend the activities of the european bank for reconstruction and development to the countries bordering the mediterranean, including jordan, confident that the local populations will derive the benefits which have long been denied them.
in writing. - the maximum political autonomy of a territorial entity is attained when it has full fiscal autonomy and, therefore, full economic and financial autonomy in determining its budget. unfortunately, the serious delay in achieving this level of autonomy is particularly evident in the context of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework. it is precisely in this process that european and europeanist ambitions and responsibilities clash with the selfishness of the member states, with a strengthening of national and nationalist interests. it is regrettable that the political dimension, which has always been concerned primarily with the common european interest, has been lost and that instead there is an accounting dimension, with which the balances between giving to the community budget and having at national level in the implementation of 'community' policies are continually calculated. the eu's full political capacity can be achieved by a real strengthening of the community's budgetary powers, both fiscal, in relation to the actual own resources, including through eurobonds and a financial transaction tax, and in the size of the resources themselves, appropriate to the political challenges and objectives it intends to pursue and achieve. this joint resolution seems to me to support this approach.
in writing. − the european budget is a very powerful instrument for increasing european strategic investment, for increasing growth and employment, and for stimulating economic development and social cohesion in the union. this requires adequate coverage in terms of appropriations for the period 2014-2020 and the maintenance of the guidelines already defined in the sure committee last june during the negotiation phase with the council. the new mff will need to be flexible in the years ahead so that it can respond promptly to unexpected crises and channel resources where they are most needed. i believe that parliament should not give its consent to the mff without a real political agreement on the introduction of a system of financing the budget from own resources, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon. how else can we explain to the european citizens that the institutions do not respect the provisions of the treaties?
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the resolution. the eu budget must present a fair balance between revenue from actual own resources and expenditure, in accordance with the treaty. the commission is right not to adopt the regulation establishing the next mff in the absence of a political agreement on the reform of the own resources system, which would put an end to the current reductions and other correction mechanisms and lead to greater transparency, fairness and sustainability.
in writing. the resolution adopted today proposes a flexible multiannual budget to meet new challenges and the replacement of national contributions with other types of resources for financing the union budget. the lack of flexibility in the current system makes it very difficult to react quickly to new challenges. the more scarce the budget, the greater the need to be able to reallocate resources to deal with unexpected events. according to the treaties, the eu budget must be financed entirely from 'own resources'. parliament argues that reforming the current system and introducing new sources of financing, such as a financial transaction tax or a new european vat system, would reduce the level of national contributions based on gross national income (gni) from 75 to 40% by 2020. the regulation establishing the next mff will not be adopted unless there is political agreement on the reform of the own resources system, which will put an end to the current reductions and other corrective mechanisms.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy was created primarily to promote sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment in europe and was adopted to deal with the current wave of economic and financial crisis that has hit europe since 2008. in order to achieve optimal results for sustainable growth and territorial development, solidarity and cohesion, priority should be given to improving synergies between all union budgetary funds that have an impact on economic development. i therefore vote in favour of the need to harmonise the allocation of funds for the europe 2020 strategy so that it is transparent, ensuring consistency between its objectives and the funding allocated to them at national and european level, and that it leads to a fair balance between revenue and expenditure, leaving room for a wide range of management flexibility in view of the unpredictable changes in the world.
in writing. − the european union aims to provide 'added value' to its 500 million citizens. to do this, we need a budget that is innovative, in tune with the new realities of globalisation and that responds to today's challenges by creating opportunities for tomorrow. in the wake of the crisis, european governments, businesses and households are making careful choices about how they spend their money. the european union, through the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, is therefore called upon to do the same, carefully considering where to cut and where to invest to foster future growth.
in writing. - having regard to the preconditions set out in the text of the resolution, i agree with the decision not to authorize the opening of trade negotiations until parliament has formulated its position on the proposed negotiating mandate on the basis of a report by the committee responsible. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the european objective of a multipolar system of relations is stimulating the formation of new partnerships in the east. the new world economic conditions are leading to a strengthening of both the multilateral approach and bilateral relations in europe. in this context, it is necessary to create the best possible conditions for developing new strategic links with japan. negotiation is the first tool to stimulate our economy, showing how the crisis can be defeated by fair and intelligent trade. the elimination of regulatory barriers to trade by japan is a precondition for the opening of trade agreement negotiations, allowing for closer economic integration between the two partners.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this resolution. the european parliament must be able to influence the mandate which the european commission will receive to deal with japan. i believe, however, that a free trade agreement with that country is impossible and harmful to the interests of our productive system. the risk is that an agreement like the one with south korea will be reached, which will cause a lot of damage to the european car industry.
in writing. - the existing bilateral relations between the union and japan are part of a network of international relations aimed at the growth of our internal market which, in my view, must be constant and even intensified in the light of the economic stagnation in which the community finds itself. i therefore vote in favour, but i would like to focus on the need to protect small and medium-sized enterprises in our euro area in a preventive manner, in view of the economic and financial crisis that has been looming since 2008, so that this network of relationships does not become an instrument that is inversely proportional to the recovery of our economy.
in writing. − i support this resolution because we must condemn the coup d'etat in guinea-bissau and ask for the immediate restoration of constitutional order. the arbitrary arrests and harassment of activists and politicians protesting against the government established by the coup leaders are inacceptable. i also would like to underline that the political crisis is diverting attention away from the needs of the population and precipitating a humanitarian crisis. we must bear in mind that guinea-bissau's economy is one of the poorest and most dependent in the region, with international aid accounting for 80% of the state budget.
in writing. - it is important to vote in favour of this resolution to urge all parties involved to cease their violent and illegal actions immediately and to recall the oath of the army to respect the constitution of guinea-bissau. it is also crucial that the international community exert all the necessary influence and provide all the support required to ensure that these wrongdoings are thoroughly investigated and those responsible brought to justice.
in writing. - all efforts must be made to help guinea-bissau, which has had six presidents in 13 years without any of them being able to complete their mandate because of the clash between civil and military authorities. the institutional framework must be restored and respected if the present situation is to be resolved. the country, already one of the poorest in the world, is in a worsening situation as it is a major transit point for drug trafficking between latin america and europe, undermining its political stability.
in writing. − in the light of the events of 12 april 2012 in guinea-bissau, where members of the armed forces seized power by force and arrested interim president raimundo pereira and prime minister carlos gomes júnior, and considering that this unlawful act took place the day before the start of the electoral campaign for the second round of the presidential elections in guinea-bissau and that the military coup was widely condemned by the international community, i join in condemning the unconstitutional seizure of power by the armed forces in guinea-bissau on 12 april 2012; i reject the establishment of the self-proclaimed 'military command', 'transitional national council' and 'transitional government' and i do not recognise the self-proclaimed military and transitional institutions and i urge the international community to do the same. i also join the call for an end to violence and intimidation against political leaders and civil society.
in writing. − dear mr. president, i support this resolution because the escalation of tensions between sudan and south sudan have recently brought the two countries to the brink of war and it is important to condemn all acts of violence committed against civilians. unfortunately decades of mutual distrust prevent either side from making gestures towards de-escalating the situation and pursuing serious negotiations. with this resolution we call on sudan and south sudan to end hostilities and demonstrate political will to resolve their post-secession issues based on the roadmap endorsed in the un security council resolution 2046 of 2 may 2012. i also would like to underline that there can be no military solution to the conflict in southern kordofan and blue nile. for this reason it is absolutely urgent to seek a political and negotiated solution, based on respect for diversity in unity.
in writing. − the european union must continue to urge sudan and south sudan to demonstrate, including in concrete terms, their political will to pursue the path of peace by addressing the security concerns of both sides through serious negotiations within the framework of the joint political and security mechanism, with the first priority being the establishment of a secure and demilitarised border area and the unconditional withdrawal of all armed forces within their borders, as provided for in previously concluded agreements, such as the agreement on the border surveillance support mission of 30 july 2011.
in writing. the un must provide guidelines to end the internal hostilities in sudan by demonstrating the political will to solve the current problems. the european union has a mandate to work together towards the achievement of democratic governance with respect for human rights and economic prosperity, which can only be achieved through mutual trust and an environment conducive to stable and sustainable economic development.
in writing. the recent clashes between sudan and south sudan in the heglig region over oil and its geographically undefined borders are the most serious since south sudan gained independence last july. this conflict has left open the question of what price south sudan, which has no access to the sea, would have to pay to export crude oil using the pipelines and other infrastructure in sudan. in the light of the foregoing, and in view of the willingness of both parties to the conflict to reach a solution, i voted in favour of the withdrawal of south sudanese forces from the disputed region of abyei and i call on the government of sudan to do the same and to demonstrate the political and practical will to move forward on the path of peace. i also urge the union to continue to work closely with its international partners so that these conflicts do not aggravate the precarious situation already existing in these countries in the name of what are the human rights that our community has always sanctioned.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe that this agreement would be an excellent opportunity not only to increase welfare and consolidate growth in colombia and peru, but also to provide an anchor for reforms and a vehicle for the integration of both countries in global economy. at the same time, as requested by this resolution, there is no doubt that the eu should actively contribute to the implementation of flanking measures, enforcing the obligations of all parties under the agreement. from my point of view it is also important to underline the role of the european parliament that should continue to follow closely the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree with the proposal to set up a special internal consultative group on human rights and democratic principles to monitor and monitor the implementation of the trade agreement or other trade agreements and to act as an effective internal consultative body for the national services participating in the trade committee under the trade agreement, in order to ensure full implementation of the strict human rights standards of the trade agreement, to which the andean governments and the european union are committed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the trade agreement between europe, colombia and peru because i believe it is necessary to open up the markets for goods, services, public procurement and investment, encouraging economic integration between the parties and overall economic development. as the european union is the second largest trading partner of colombia and peru, the agreement on the liberalization of trade in industrial and fishery products could increase colombian gdp by 1.3% and peruvian gdp by 0.7%. through trade liberalization and expansion, the agreement aims to improve general working conditions, encouraging the achievement of the objective of sustainable development, the promotion of economic progress and respect for workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
in writing. the resolution on the trade agreement with colombia and peru raises serious questions. can the european commission continue to make concessions to countries which flagrantly violate human rights? my vote was therefore in favour. i would stress that the trade agreement on which we are soon to take a decision represents a serious danger to the agricultural and fisheries sectors of the union. once again the european commission is deaf to the alarm cries of our workers and our companies.
in writing. − dear mr. president, i voted for this report because i value of primary importance the need to strengthen the visibility and coherence of the eu’s human rights policy. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights. i believe that the first eusr for hr should be granted a strong, independent and flexible mandate in order to act swiftly and effectively. the eusr for hr should also address different horizontal issues contributing to more coherent action in eu external policies. in addition it is fundamental that, while implementing his/her mandate, the eusr for hr should cooperate with representatives of civil society and international organisations acting in the field of protection of human rights and democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the establishment of an eu special representative for the protection and defence of human rights, because i recognise the operational possibilities of intervention which he will have, by cooperating and discussing with the un, the unhrc, regional organisations and above all ngos. the common goal of all of these is to strengthen human rights, including freedom of personal expression and religion, and to put an end to the violence, torture, discrimination and the death penalty, which affect women, men and children every day. the eusr shall have extensive experience, knowledge, qualifications and international and humanitarian standing, and shall be charismatic, courageous and self-assured. with a flexible two-year mandate, it will have to act to improve and mediate for greater respect for the human being and a better civil, peaceful and democratic coexistence. i believe that the work of the eusr will be important because it will strengthen, by giving europe a voice and power, the effectiveness and visibility of the european foreign policy of human rights, democracy and justice in the countries, in collaboration with the high representative for foreign affairs.
in writing. - i fully support the establishment of a european union special representative for human rights. the protection of human rights, and in particular freedom of expression and freedom of religion, are undoubtedly elements that need to be strengthened and implemented in the context of ever-greater integration between eu and non-eu countries. the introduction of this unitary figure at european level will make it possible to make more operational the activities related to this subject and the collaboration with the un, the unhrc and the ngos operating at european level. this cooperation is then extended to the european high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, which will make the eu special representative's work more effective. the protection of human rights, despite the many steps forward in this direction, continues to be undermined by fundamentalist and fundamentalist groups who, unfortunately, find their way to agreement by resorting to violence. therefore, strengthening european action to combat these violations is a clear signal that we want to send in the perspective of a future in which human rights are increasingly safeguarded.
in writing. − we support the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights because we believe that this would increase the visibility, effectiveness, coherence and accountability of european action in this field. the european parliament will of course have to play its part in the appointment procedure and in the supervision of the mandate throughout the term of office, in order to strengthen the transparency and accountability of its mandate. the policy objectives will include strengthening the coherence, effectiveness and visibility of eu action in the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy in the world, strengthening the rule of law and institutions, international justice and international humanitarian law. in implementing his mandate, the eusr for human rights shall cooperate with representatives of civil society at local, regional and national level, ngos, experts and regional and international organisations active in the field of human rights and democracy. it will also be responsible for setting up a team with the necessary political expertise, which may include staff seconded from member states and eu institutions, also in view of the need to ensure coherence and mainstreaming of human rights in the activities of all european institutions.
in writing. - i support the european parliament's proposal for a recommendation to the council on the european union special representative for human rights (eusr). my support is based not only on the conviction that respect for human rights is one of the main pillars of european policies, but above all on the need for the european institutions to appoint a single representative in the field of international humanitarian law. the eusr for human rights, as the single voice of democratic values, would strengthen the european union's presence in the protection and promotion of human rights in its external policies.
in writing. − to achieve the above objectives, the mandate of the eu special representative for human rights (eusr) must be strong, independent and flexible, not limited to specific and limited thematic responsibilities, but capable of acting quickly and effectively. in line with the actions and priorities set out in the action plan, the eusr for human rights is also to address a number of horizontal issues, contributing to a more coherent and effective eu external policy action. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − i welcome the proposal to establish an eu special representative for human rights, aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and visibility of eu policies in this area. the european union is founded on respect for and promotion of fundamental rights, universal and indivisible rights which should know no frontiers or affiliations of any kind. they form the basis of the treaties establishing the european union and were more strongly expressed in the 2000 charter of fundamental rights, which became legally binding with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. efforts in this area should be twofold, both within and outside the eu. the special representative for human rights should have a broad and flexible mandate and should be able to draw on existing services in a time of austerity such as the present one. finally, i hope that he will carry out his work in constant collaboration with the non-governmental organizations, which play a major role in this field, and in full agreement with the european parliament, which has always been committed to the defence of human rights.
in writing. − the appointment of a european human rights representative is intended to give greater visibility to european human rights policies. greater visibility also means greater responsibility and the need to report regularly to parliament on this sensitive subject. i also support this initiative because the establishment of a special representative for human rights will make it possible to implement the eu human rights strategy and action plan more effectively by making recommendations, intensifying dialogue with third countries, international, regional and ngo organisations active in the field and promoting the overall coherence of eu action on human rights and the integration of this dimension in all areas of the union's external action. that is why i support mr salafranca's report.
in writing. − the appointment of the first european union special representative should increase the visibility, effectiveness, coherence and accountability of the union's human rights policy. in particular, the high representative must act and speak on behalf of the union, reflecting the shared and indivisible responsibility of all european institutions and member states in the light of the accession of the european union to the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. this vote will seek to strengthen the transparency and accountability of the mandate of the representative. in addition, lady ashton will chair high-level dialogues on human rights and lead consultations with third countries on these issues, and provide the council, the high representative, parliament and the commission with an annual progress report and a comprehensive mandate implementation report at the end of her term.
in writing. − dear mr. president, i support this report because, although some really good amendments presented by my group had not been approved, it is important that the parliament takes a clear position on this fundamental issue. indeed a united, coherent and consistent eu approach is crucial for such a treaty to be adopted and effectively implemented at global level. the arms trade treaty that will be negotiated in 2012 must include clear and binding provisions consistent with the highest international standards. uncontrolled arms trading pose a serious threat to peace and stability but also to democracy, the rule of law and sustainable social-economic development. the eu member states consistently account for approximately 30 % of all exports and are among the world’s leading arms producers and exporters. for these reasons the eu has both the responsibility and the interest in contributing to control arms trade at global level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the negotiations on the un arms trade treaty because i believe that the time has come to fill the legislative vacuum in this area with a binding international treaty on the regulation of conventional arms transfers. i believe it is essential that the eu comes to the negotiations next july with a unified and coherent approach which is crucial for the text of the treaty to be as complete as possible and to be effectively implemented at global level. my position is in favour of this proposal because i share the need to establish stricter international rules and criteria for the assessment of decisions on the transfer, import and export of conventional arms. i am also confident that this initiative will not undermine the contribution that the military industry, especially in europe, makes to job creation and economic growth, areas on which the eu is currently focusing its attention. i expect the negotiations to produce a document regulating the trade in the widest range of conventional weapons, including light weapons whose illicit trafficking makes them the main cause of local conflict and the death of thousands of civilians every year.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. it is imperative that the international community demonstrate its commitment to the regulation of the international arms trade by making full use of the regulation in order to reach agreement on a comprehensive text covering all the key issues needed for a robust treaty to be agreed at the july 2012 conference.
in writing. − the united nations conference to be held in new york from 2 to 27 july 2012 aims to establish the arms trade treaty in order to develop a legally binding instrument on the strictest possible common international rules on the transfer of conventional arms. with this vote in favour i share the need to harmonise global action towards common legislation to ensure greater transparency and greater control in this area, given its increasing development even in the present crisis period, thus marginalizing the risk of irresponsible arms trade which has so far caused unnecessary suffering, fuelled armed conflicts, terrorist attacks and corruption, compromising good governance and provoking the overthrow of democratically elected governments.
in writing. − dear mr president, the european union’s election observation mission in the democratic republic of congo has concluded in its final report that the electoral process was marred by numerous cases of fraud detected. for this reason with this text we stress the need for the european union and the international community to support the drc in its efforts to underpin democracy and to assist congolese ngos to raise the voter awareness. i also would like to underline that impunity for human rights abuses and the increased unemployment and impoverishment of the population are also determining factors in undermining political stability in the democratic republic of the congo and are creating a climate of insecurity.
in writing. − building a democratic society requires first of all a strong political will and an ambitious vision on the part of political leaders, governments and the opposition, and must aim at the establishment of political institutions guaranteeing the human, civil, political, social, economic and environmental rights of the population. we must strongly call on the congolese government to make a determined effort to achieve a political practice which genuinely respects all human rights, including freedom of expression and opinion, of assembly and of religion.
in writing. - the contestation of the electoral results in the democratic republic of congo, both presidential and legislative, was inevitable and legitimate, since the published results do not correspond to the truth of the ballot box. the construction of a democratic society requires strong political will and an ambitious vision from leaders and governments as well as the opposition, and must aim at the establishment of political institutions to guarantee the human, social, economic and environmental rights of the population. the union's commitment must be to support the efforts of the congolese authorities and regional organisations to promote democracy, good governance and the holding of free and transparent elections.
in writing. - burning seats, attacks on convoys of electoral material, two policemen and an electrician killed: the european union is also calling for the release of the hostages and for the release of the hostages. in the light of what has happened, and dissociating myself from these acts of violence and violation of civil rights enshrined in the declaration of principles for international electoral observation missions adopted by the united nations in october 2005, i deplore the failure to respect the electoral legal framework and join the call for the creation of a constitutional court that will allow greater transparency in the electoral process, especially as regards the handling of electoral litigation.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 2.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the european semester.
okay, but i think mr. giegold is from the green party. now he has moved temporarily to the liberal group, but i think only temporarily. it's just the chair, the sign-up keeps her with the greens. let us now continue the debate.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when this declaration was written, perhaps no one thought that when we discussed it we would be in full spread at over 500 and perhaps, god forbid, 600 for spain and, god forbid, for italy. so you want to fight speculation. this morning president barroso told us his solution, namely the creation of a european banking union. but this is really a way in which the european union wants to get its hands on the money of us savers. the banking union will not protect european savers and national governments will lose whatever power they have and wish to have over their national banking systems which will be plunged into a general cauldron of debt. in essence, the banking union is an attempt, not even a veiled one, to stop the insolvency of the spanish banking system today by using the savings of the other eurozone member countries, heavily including even poor italy. it thus appears as an act of preemptive warfare against the growing support for the real reform that could solve the bankrupt system, namely the banking separation or glass steagall act. in essence, it is about separating deposit banks from investment banks, which is the only way to ensure that deposits are not lost when speculators fail or are not used to plug holes. we are facing yet another attempt to contain a crisis by isolating it, as if it were not the crisis of the entire euro system. we have to stop him before it's too late.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am asking you and the commission to tell me what you think of this, not what the subsequent compromises with the council are, but what your opinion is, your opinion. the question is this: but do you really think that, with the budgetary resources and the time that are dictated by this epochal economic situation, there are the right ways and conditions to keep this europe standing? but really, when you talk about growth, you only think about the 4 billion project bonds that are in place between this year and another year, what are the increased capacities of the eib, why does it have to be supported also for what it has done in the past, or what are the conditions of the single market, digital, economic and what else? but do you really think that time and resources are being put to good use in this resolution, in this question of territory, in this situation where states are making enormous sacrifices to the point of people committing suicide? but do you really think that europe should give normal answers in this time that is not normal?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market may bring benefits in certain sectors and to certain categories, but i would be very careful about using the triumphalist tone of the resolution. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the goods and services sector, for example, is cited as having the greatest potential for growth, with reference also to the implementation of the famous directive on this subject. i wonder what the development is in risking the loss of hundreds of very small businesses, both seaside and street businesses, to the benefit of perhaps large companies which have a better chance of exploiting the so-called benefits of the single market. we are therefore opposed to an internal market which would mean the loss of our particularities and our excellence. we do not feel the need, nor do we feel the usefulness, of conforming to a phantom single european model.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are not divided on the potential of the internal market, provided certain conditions are met. what you often call coordination and the big picture is one of them. but if in the meantime serious events take place, such as the change in the legal basis for the schengen measures, it is clear that a political mistake is being made, but the internal market is also being damaged, and the possibilities of free movement are being reduced. when we set ourselves objectives - i am thinking first of all of growth, our main concern at the moment - we must also qualify them. so it is not a vague growth, but a sustainable growth that lasts over time. and at the same time, in the context of the development of the economies of the individual countries and of the union, the rights must be respected: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i believe that the relationship between rights and growth should be seen as a link that can never be broken.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, company law can be a lever for the development of the internal market. in a difficult time like the present, it is therefore necessary to work together now to find acceptable and feasible solutions in a short time. i will therefore be very clear, commissioner, about what this parliament expects in the coming months, even if you have taken some of the requirements into account in your speech. firstly, we expect a pragmatic and flexible approach in order to make legislation clearer and more accessible. in this respect, although the advantages of a single instrument are considerable, directives could alternatively be grouped by sector, for example following the principles of operation, mobility and legal forms. the other priority is to make european company law work for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a mere 'market for small and mediumsized enterprises'. finally, this parliament is looking forward with some impatience to a legislative proposal setting out measures to facilitate the cross-border mobility of companies. i shall stop here because the subject is so vast that it is difficult to cover it all in just over a minute, but i believe that there will be and will continue to be opportunities for a fruitful debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner barnier, there is no doubt that the future of european company law is the future of the european union itself. it is enough to think of the 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises, a system which has grown stronger over time but which today more than ever requires structural reforms. the european single market can only benefit from the prospects of a european company law with a vision. the commission must obviously give the vision and i think i can say that the commissioner's indications are in that direction. an action plan where there are clear and accessible rules, where the issues of simplifying bureaucracy are absolutely obvious, where company law is at the service of small and mediumsized enterprises and at the service of companies. at the same time, other important issues must also be considered - i am referring to data protection, which could lead to consequent constraints on companies and which must be kept up to date and constantly monitored. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we therefore have confidence in commissioner barnier's proposals for a company law that is up to date.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as you have heard, many of us agree on the importance of company law, but also on the urgency of having binding rules on the subject. i think the most sensitive issue is the sum of the crossborder problems. we need a single market in which companies too can have adequate and non-discriminatory conditions for mobility within the space defined by the union. i would like to remind you that alongside the mobility of companies, there is also the mobility of people working in those companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to say that the mobility of undertakings must not in any way become a possibility of relocation which then penalizes a territory and the people concerned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that there are two objectives which we must try to achieve together. the first concerns the creation of new jobs. we know that the priority target there is young people and we know that the most important tool is training. all the investment in training is bound to have a positive effect on growth and social cohesion. but there is a second major issue, which is less discussed, namely the regulation of clandestine work or, as it is called, informal work. they are exploited people who work without contracts being applied and without being recognized as having any rights of work or even citizenship, because they are often people who have come to us without having a residence permit or the normal conditions of others. the conditions of great suffering and exploitation are created there, but also elements of distortion of the labour market. that is why i believe that both must be tackled simultaneously, and that they must be given their due weight. creating jobs for young people and at the same time regularizing what already exists, but which is not regulated by law.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the rapporteur that parts 1 and 2 of annex i cannot be amended by delegated acts. we want to avoid that an excessive extension of the scope, not counterbalanced by an appropriate framework of derogations, ultimately leads to a disproportionate increase in costs compared to the expected environmental and health benefits. in addition, a significant increase in administrative costs due to the need to align with the clp regulation would particularly affect downstream users and small and medium-sized enterprises. we are therefore fully aware of the concerns raised by european industry associations calling for the application of option b, namely to keep the scope of the seveso ii directive, which is well established and has proven to work effectively, unchanged in practice. the extended or open scope approach is one we have seen used before whenever environmental legislation has affected industry. we do not think this is a good way of legislating at all, because the ideological approach eventually takes precedence over the reality of the facts. we welcome the idea of adding offshore platforms, with associated oil or gas pipelines, as well as ccs installations and salt cavities to the entities to which the directive applies.
member of the commission. − madam president, it is appreciated that there is agreement on the need for this package, which parliament will be voting on tomorrow. this package of rules will allow member states to ensure better implementation of their policies to prevent and control the consequences of major accidents involving dangerous substances. these substances are now defined by reference to the new international chemical classification and are therefore fully in line with this classification. the commission is greatly satisfied with the outcome of negotiations, and i wish to thank the house. i will also inform my colleague, mr potočnik, of the comments made during this debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 june 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the commission's debate on female genital mutilation.
member of the commission. − madam president, all forms of gender-based violence constitute an unacceptable violation of fundamental rights and a clear obstacle to gender equality. female genital mutilation is one form of violence against women that is particularly unacceptable. it is degrading, it violates fundamental rights, it violates the right to health and it violates children’s rights. an estimated three million women and girls in the world suffer female genital mutilation every year. up to half a million women living in europe have suffered genital mutilation already and many thousands are at risk. female genital mutilation can under no circumstances be justified by cultural or religious traditions and practices. it has both immediate and long-term consequences for the health of women and can cause death. the commission is determined to take concrete action and develop a strong policy response to tackle the issue of violence against women in europe. female genital mutilation is of particular concern. the commission has already said so in its strategy for equality between women and men 2010-2015. the lack of reliable and comparable data is a huge challenge. my colleague, vice-president viviane reding, has asked the european institute for gender equality to assess the reliability and comparability of data available in member states and to identify data gaps. on this basis, the institute will report on the state of play with regard to this phenomenon, and of the replies drawn up in the member states. we should get a report in the second half of 2012. its results will help us to take even-better-informed action in this field. in 2011 and 2012, the commission has made funding available for combating harmful practices through the daphne iii programme. financial support will be granted for the implementation of transnational projects to grass-roots organisations working to prevent such practices by raising awareness and changing social attitudes. although there is no specific eu-wide legislation on female genital mutilation, it is criminalised in most eu member states, either through specific laws or under the general criminal codes. a large majority of eu member states have also included the principle of extraterritoriality in their criminal provisions, thus enabling prosecutions to be brought for female genital mutilation that has been committed outside the european union. the commission is taking measures in the criminal justice area and has proposed legislation on the rights of victims of crime. the aim with the victims directive is to ensure that all victims across the european union have a basic set of minimum rights, that they are treated as individuals and receive appropriate treatment. this instrument notably aims at ensuring that the needs of victims are individually assessed and that the most vulnerable, including victims of female genital mutilation, receive specific treatment appropriate to their needs. the commission proposal, with changes proposed by the european parliament, will significantly improve the situation for women as victims of violence. the eu also addresses the issue of female genital mutilation in its external actions. it supports advocacy and lobbying initiatives for promoting and protecting women’s rights and prohibiting harmful practices. the commission and the european external action service systematically raise the issue of female genital mutilation in their dialogue with african, caribbean and pacific countries. in this framework, we underline the need for african states to ensure that female genital mutilation is legally prohibited and that legislation prohibiting female genital mutilation is effectively enforced. we strongly support the united nations general assembly’s planned resolution to ban female genital mutilation. it is crucial that the countries with the highest occurrence of female genital mutilation, in particular in africa, take ownership of this resolution. the european external action service is currently preparing a campaign, under the eu human rights guidelines on violence against women and girls, to draw attention to the need to step up efforts to eradicate this practice, particularly on the african continent. female genital mutilation is an extreme and unacceptable practice. the commission is determined to combat it and to help empower women inside and outside the european union through legislation, financial programmes and a range of other means, including support to grass-roots organisations.
on behalf of the ppe group. the fight against genital mutilation is an ongoing battle. politics and civic commitment must succeed in defeating a social scourge that marks millions of women throughout their lives, and the union must recognize this crime in a harmonious way with the same punishments and the same drastic measures. a result, even a partial one, has been achieved. mutilation is finally considered a form of child abuse, a violation of human rights and gender-based violence. the great merit of african women must be recognized for their courage in believing in a battle that is often also fraught with dangers and threats. today, structural changes have been added to the cultures of belonging to redraw the role of women. but the phenomenon has not disappeared even in the countries of the union, and there are too many clandestine actions that continue the clans' traditions. the institutions must not give up fighting this depravity, defeating this crime. for this reason, paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the resolution call on the commission to take a series of measures to ensure that the fight against this scourge is not allowed to rest. a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women must include joint action against female genital mutilation, including information, in particular, in training programmes for girls, both in the union and in third countries, as we argued in the resolution on combating female sexual mutilation in the union, adopted by a large majority in parliament in february 2009. i remember being a rapporteur and i remember, unfortunately, that despite what the commissioner said today, our capacity to intervene has not yet been sufficiently activated to make this crime punishable in the same way in all 27 member states.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i express my firm and convincing support for the european parliament's resolution to combat the brutal practice of female genital mutilation. combating this inhuman practice means not only opposing the barbaric treatment that affects 140 million women, 500 000 of them in europe, but also fighting against the severe discrimination to which the female sex continues to be subjected. female genital mutilation has irreversible consequences for the physical and mental health of women. infections, the risk of aids, the impairment of future pregnancies and the consequences on birth are just some of the results of this violent oppression that is carried out by means of crude and unsterilized instruments. furthermore, if it is considered that this practice is perpetrated on girls under the age of 15, it must be considered a real violation of the un convention on the rights of the child. i would like to conclude by saying that the european commission must recognise this crime in order to be able to allocate financial resources to combat it, and that the whole of civil society must support it. in this way, the member states will be able to express their joint and coherent action against the continuing violence against women in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2010, when the european commission promised to adopt a strategy on violence against women, including female genital mutilation, there has been no coherent and structured attempt to tackle this crime. it is estimated that 500,000 women and girls living in europe have suffered them and that over 180,000 are at risk every year. the consequences range from hemorrhagic shock to neurogenic shock, and female genital mutilation is mostly performed on girls between the ages of 4 and 14, although it is common in eritrea, mali, and yemen to perform it on newborns. often, mutilations performed in unsanitary conditions result in abscesses, cysts, and infections, and sometimes death. unicef considers female genital mutilation to be a violation of women's rights. i believe that they should be regarded as crimes against humanity and therefore i ask that the european union take all possible measures against those countries which accept or tolerate them.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for this discussion. in the 21st century, millions of young women are still subjected to genital mutilation every year. they risk death and, if they survive their injury, they face the prospect of disability and very risky childbirths. the eu will continue to campaign for the rights and empowerment of women in all contexts through fighting gender-based violence and supporting relevant initiatives against harmful traditional practices, in particular female genital mutilation (fgm). by the end of july, the foreign affairs council is expected to adopt the eu action plan for human rights and democracy and the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy, where fgm is one of the priorities. the commission has been able to finance a number of important civil society-driven projects in the poorest countries. about eur 55 million have been allocated to projects on maternal health and projects addressing youth and their special health problems and needs. i believe my colleagues cathy ashton and viviane reding will both work with honourable members in raising awareness about female genital mutilation.
i have received three motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 june 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on defective silicone gel breast implants manufactured by the french company pip by philippe juvin and thomas ulmer, on behalf of the epp group, linda mcavan and gilles pargneaux, on behalf of the s&d group, corinne lepage and antonyia parvanova, on behalf of the alde group, margrete auken and michèle rivasi, on behalf of the greens/efa group, marina yannakoudakis, on behalf of the ecr group, marisa matias, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, and oreste rossi, on behalf of the efd group (o-000101/2012 b7-0118/2012).
author of the book. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate and vote on the resolution comes at a particularly favourable time, since, if adopted, it will provide useful guidance on the review of medical devices. the case of breast implants has demonstrated the shortcomings of the current system for certifying compliance with the essential health and safety requirements. i think that the revision proposals put forward by the european commission and commissioner dalli are right to call for greater controls in the medical device industry and for stricter licensing by the relevant bodies. i also agree that we should not put in place excessive bureaucratic burdens that prevent the use of innovative products for years. i think it is important to ensure that at european level there are strict, efficient and rapid controls. the thousands of women who have had breast implants must be made aware of the possible risks they will face, given the opportunity to undergo screening and medical advice to check for damage and prevent the breaking of the devices. it is important to establish a register from which it is possible to trace those who have undergone the implantation of particular medical devices so that, if there is a need and to provide information on any checks, modifications or replacements, it is possible to do so in a timely manner. the introduction of a prosthesis recognition card would also enable the user to be informed of all the potential risks he might encounter and what checks he would be well advised to undergo over the years. it is essential, with a view to cooperation at union level, that member states make clear commitments to eliminate or minimise the recurrence of serious events such as that related to silicone pip prostheses.
member of the commission. − madam president, during the last 20 years, the medical device regulatory system has, overall, provided for safe, reliable and performing devices in europe and has provided the flexibility needed for the high number of medical devices and the short life-cycle of these products. it has also proven to be a system that is cost-effective and sme-friendly. it has put europe in the forefront of innovation. for months before the pip case, the commission was reviewing the medical devices directive, because we found that it needed quite a number of improvements. the pip case is indeed appalling. it is a case of fraud which went undetected due to weaknesses in the post-market phase. nevertheless, the case has highlighted a number of weaknesses in the regulatory framework. in order to provide a rapid answer to european patients’ concerns, i have identified, and shared with the european parliament, a number of actions to be taken immediately, together with the member states, on the basis of the current legislation. this includes tightening market controls, in order to provide a better guarantee of the safety of medical technology, especially high risk devices. i have therefore written to the health ministers of all the member states to ask for their support, and together we are now putting these actions in place. for the longer term, the revised medical device legislation that the commission has been preparing – independently of the pip case, as i said –will also take on board the experiences of this affair. the commission intends to adopt its proposal shortly after the summer break. a number of improvements were already foreseen to reinforce the system. these improvements will contribute to avoiding cases like the pip implant case. to mention but a few: we want to strengthen the designation, monitoring and functioning of notified bodies and ensure that this is carried out in accordance with the same high standards across the eu; and we want a stronger role to be given to competent authorities, both in pre- and post-market phases. the system can only be efficient if we make the best use of the limited number of experts available. this is why the commission foresees a pre-market scrutiny mechanism to be put in place for high-risk devices, and other devices where necessary, but on a case by case basis. this mechanism will allow a committee composed of member states’ experts to check certain notified bodies’ assessments before the devices can have access to the market. the advantage of doing so will be twofold. first, it will ensure an equal level of assessment by notified bodies, in particular with regard to clinical evidence. second, it will allow member states to be informed of products coming onto the market so that they can ensure targeted controls of these products. this mechanism has the advantage that scarce resources and expertise are used to ensure efficient and proportionate pre-market control and reinforced vigilance and market surveillance. last but not least, we want to improve the traceability requirements for medical devices, for instance by means of a unique device identification and a single registration system. following the pip case, the commission performed a ‘stress test’ of the medical device legislation in order to identify additional possible shortcomings of the regulatory framework and address them in the context of the upcoming revision. as a result of the stress test, additional measures will be included in the commission proposal. these proposals will concern the audit activities of the notified bodies. particular attention will be paid to the obligatory unannounced visits to the manufacturer, testing of products and rotation of auditors. information will be given to national authorities with regard to negative outcomes of such audits. measures should also be put in place to enhance the reporting of incidents by healthcare professionals and patients. patients’ awareness should also be improved through, for example, implant cards providing appropriate information. this is where i believe that the transparency of the market should be enhanced, by giving all interested parties the right information not only – as mrs mcavan has said – about costs and benefits, but also about the duration, durability and consequences of the implants or whatever other device they are using, because this is not only a question of implants and there are other devices in use. i believe everybody needs to know all the implications of using such devices, because some people really do think that once they go through a procedure, it is a once in a lifetime procedure, which in many instances is not the case. this has to be continuously put in front of our patients, or our consumers, in the way we are suggesting. these cards have to be given to every single patient who undergoes any type of procedure involving such implants. in this way, patient awareness will be greatly improved. i do believe that the set of measures already foreseen, combined with additional measures deemed necessary in the light of the result of the stress test, will considerably reinforce the system, favour innovation and ensure that only safe and performing medical devices are placed on the european market, for the benefit of european citizens. i have taken note of the points raised by mrs auconie and i must say that all her points are, in fact, included in the proposal that we will be presenting, as i said, just after the summer.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for saying some very important and very agreeable things. i find it really shocking, as he said, that we have lived, each in our own country, with the numbers and figures we heard first from our colleague auconie. however, it is equally clear that this scandal has indeed highlighted the need for a careful assessment of the european legislation currently in force on medical devices. unfortunately, this fraud has brought to light the shortcomings which we have been talking about in this house and which the commissioner has so well represented, that i would not like to dwell on this in the short time i have. i think it is good to put everything in place so that we can have the best we can offer our citizens. i believe that this scandal, which has taught us so much, could also be a stimulus to take a further step forward, and i refer to what my colleague said earlier. the communication to patients is very poor, the emphasis is always on the positive, there is a sort of eternal youth, a promise of beauty, while there are no prostheses that are absolutely risk-free. i think this awareness, especially when it comes to pure cosmetic surgery, really needs to be communicated to people and particularly to girls, because we know that there are very young women who are approaching this type of surgery. so i see that you are absent with conviction. i recommend that we work because we have very little time, we should have done it yesterday.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all members for their comments on this very important issue. we all agree that patient health comes first and foremost in our policy deliberations. this is exactly what we are doing too when we insist that we must continue to have a flexible system that delivers innovation as fast as possible to our patients, because that is also a function of patient health. being able to use innovative products at the earliest possible time – and in europe we deliver innovation about three years before our american counterparts with their own system – is a benefit to patients that we cannot put aside. so when i was asked by mr pargneaux why i would not be pushing for pre-marketing authorisation, this is why: because i do not believe we need it. we do not need to go the way of pre-market authorisation. we have a system in europe that has worked in the past. we are enforcing this system so it works even better. we are ensuring the competence of all the bodies that are involved in the authorisation process and this is the package that we will be proposing to this parliament and to council just after the summer. this, mr tarabella, is what the outcome is, and what my position is on this issue. we have been deliberating, we have been studying and we have been stress-testing what we have done because of the pip case, and we will be coming forward with a formal, concrete proposal in a few months time, around september. when we talk about authorisation, what we are saying here is: let us continue to keep the flexibility that we have in europe; let us enforce and make sure that whoever is involved in the process is competent to do so; let us make the competent authorities in the member states more involved in what is happening in their own countries within this process, and then let us have a europe-wide expert group that will ensure the consistency, all across europe, of a standard level of authorisation. the pip case is not about authorisation. the pip case has nothing to do with authorisation. the pip case is a fraud which could have happened under the most robust authorisation process you could possibly have. the pip case is an indication of the weaknesses we have in our processes: not necessarily in the legislation itself, though the legislation will be strengthened as well, but more in the way it was being implemented in market controls after authorisation. as some of you have said, competent authorities in member states simply let the medical devices that were in use in their countries not be subject to any kind of controls, and this is what is wrong. it was unbelievable to hear – and i am an accountant by profession, so for me it was even worse – that all audits held by the notifying bodies on companies were all pre-notified two months in advance! it is unbelievable that this could happen! this was all due to their interpretation that this was what was required in our legal process – which is not the case. in fact, in the letter i have written to the ministers, i have told them that this is not the case, that non-notified audits are provided for in our legislation today, and they should also be making sure that this is happening with marketing controls today. we do not need to wait two years until this legislative process that we will be launching very soon is finished. we are pushing for transparency; transparency not only in the information that is given to everybody who might be deciding on making any type of procedure, but transparency also in the vigilance aspect so that all incidents that happen within the medical devices sector have to be reported back. a database will be set up to put all this information together so that we can really take the necessary actions. the traceability of medical devices, which we are also proposing and will be proposing, as was mentioned here again today – and i am pleased that it was because this is also a very important aspect – and especially of risky medical devices would also be part of the proposal. therefore, we are keeping our word on this. we will be coming back in september with a robust proposal that will drastically improve our safety issues – and without going overboard, without overreacting to an incident and trying to find a way of transmitting the sense that we are doing something by really doing something where it is not indicated that it needs to be done. the problem of the pip fraud was not authorisation. it lay in market controls, and this is where we need to really put our foot down and really ensure that we introduce a robust market control procedure.
i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 115 (1) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 june 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission's decision to abolish the concept of dietetic food, by placing it in other regulatory frameworks, harms the particular categories to which these foods were intended, such as children up to 3 years of age, infants, celiacs, professional sportsmen and people who need very low calorie products. this choice was opposed in the envi committee and no agreement was reached at first reading. the report we have adopted attempts to fill many gaps. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include foods for premature babies, foods for celiac patients and foods with a low calorie content, to adopt specific rules for milk for children aged between 1 and 3 years, to reintroduce the innovation clause and to re-regulate foods for professional sportsmen. particular attention should be paid to celiac disease. therefore, ad hoc legislation that has fully demonstrated its effectiveness must be maintained. the mere mention of allergens on the label does not guarantee adequate safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the compromises reached in the envi committee, because they strengthen the commission's proposal by providing greater protection for vulnerable categories of consumers and by increasing the information provided. the exclusion of gluten-free products from the initial proposal is emblematic. this is a penalty for a growing category of people suffering from a disease due to intolerance to an allergen, who are not guaranteed a complete and balanced diet capable of providing an adequate nutritional profile to ensure physical well-being. in future negotiations with the council, horizontal regulation could be proposed with regulation (eu) no 1169/2011. in this case, the generic term 'gluten-free' should be combined with the term 'suitable for coeliacs' to clearly distinguish between products free of the allergen and those for proper nutrition.
in writing. unfortunately, this is not the first time that the european commission, in the name of simplifying current legislation, has risked depriving european citizens of important tools to protect their health. in this case, we could not accept that the revision of the provisions on special feedingstuffs should not also include products specifically designed for people with celiac disease. celiac disease is not a 'trend' but a disease that affects 1% of european consumers today. the only remedy recognized so far is a gluten-free diet, which can only be guaranteed by a precise regulatory framework and strict controls on products. celiac patients must strictly exclude this substance from their diet for life and need real 'substitutes' for foods containing it, equivalent to the latter in dietary and organoleptic terms in order to compensate for nutritional deficiencies and ensure a balanced nutritional intake. i therefore hope that the council will heed parliament's requests and start a constructive debate on the second reading of this important piece of legislation, thus avoiding that an alleged legislative simplification has the sole effect of trivializing this disease.
i would like to thank mr stevenson for the excellent work he has done and the approach he has given to this report, which essentially deals with the two main issues. this is not just a plan for herring management, but it is essentially a matter of guaranteeing the future of fishermen in some ways and planning for the sea so that it can be protected for many years. but the key point in this report is and remains the question of delegated acts. i think that the council must accept the approach given by the lisbon treaty and i also think that it is time that parliament somehow, with a voice perhaps more authoritative than that of the debate in the committee on fisheries or a debate on a report on herring, has the courage to take a very clear and strong position on the question of delegated acts. we demand the right to have the ordinary procedure on these matters. i am well aware that the question concerns not only many other fisheries sectors, which will be aggravated by the reform under way, but also agriculture and other issues. the essential step is to respect the will of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the milk market is undoubtedly one of the key markets in the european union, and i think we saw that during the last crisis in 2009/2010. but i should also like to point out that there are areas in our union - and i come from one of those areas, a mountain area - where the milk market plays a very central role. if the farmers there cannot produce milk, they have no alternative. what are they supposed to produce in their meadows, in their pastures, if not milk? and how are they supposed to make a living if not from the milk? i think, commissioner, that when you talk about restructuring, it may well work in some areas of the european union because there are alternatives. but where should the farmers in mountain areas restructure? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that is why there is a great deal of pressure and concern in these areas about what is going to happen when the quotas are exhausted. it is also an illusion to think that strengthening the first or second pillar is a solution here. the farmers can't live off that in the end. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota is not exceeded, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the quota is not exceeded. if we do not do this, we cannot agree to a silent and soundless reduction in the milk quota.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the resolution on female genital mutilation, if the house agrees, i propose a roll-call vote, because perhaps it is appropriate that, on an issue which is in defence of women's fundamental rights, there should be a strong signal from the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council regulation on the multiannual plan for the herring stock was adopted before the treaty entered into force and therefore alignment was necessary. this regulation, the first in the fisheries sector to be aligned with the treaty, is therefore of considerable importance, since the solution adopted in this case could affect the decision-making procedure applicable to other multiannual plans. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from seveso to bhopal to toulouse, there have been numerous environmental disasters in europe in recent years, which have put the health of european citizens at risk. the text of mr áder concerns the revision of the seveso ii directive which aims to contain the effects of those accidents involving large quantities of dangerous and highly polluting substances dispersed in the environment. the revised rules, which will come into force in june 2015, are designed to protect the environment and, above all, to limit the tragic consequences for the health of citizens, and i therefore voted in favour of them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we look back at some of the major environmental disasters that we are all aware of, we can see that there have been many cases where accidents at work have been followed by disastrous environmental consequences. these cases also show that the impact of accidents can sometimes extend beyond national borders. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that it is necessary to replace directive 96/82/ec in order to ensure that the existing levels of protection are not only maintained but are further strengthened. i also believe that the new provisions should be clearer, more consistent and easier to understand, in order to help streamline administrative procedures. finally, i consider it necessary to reserve a certain degree of flexibility to be able to amend annex i in order to take into account any undesirable effects in the harmonisation to regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 and subsequent adaptations to that regulation that may have an impact on the classification of dangerous substances.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, directive 2009/39/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 6 may 2009 on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses lays down general provisions on the composition and processing of such foodstuffs. the provisions of this directive date mainly from 1977 and no longer meet the needs of today's consumers. the directive therefore needed to be thoroughly revised, and that is why i voted in favour of mrs ries' proposal. i believe, however, that it is essential to protect consumers more, to simplify regulation and to deal in general with the difficulties that member states and operators in the sector encounter in interpreting the various existing food legislation. this would allow for the uniform treatment of similar products throughout the union, creating a level playing field for all operators in the internal market and in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises and final consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not agree with the point made by the honourable member who has just spoken. i think that this parliament has exercised its powers well by adopting the resolution we have voted on, because it is clear to everyone the urgency we have before us to complete the construction of the single market without adding new laws but only by implementing the regulatory package we already have at our disposal. the objective of the growth of the single market must take account of four fundamental elements which are contained in this resolution, namely the size of the operators: more than 90% of our market is made up of small and micro enterprises. the social value of enterprises: the rules need to be re-thought on the dimension of the person and the work as well as the profit; the transversal nature of the market: the integrated approach to investment is required for growth; and finally, the multiplier effect: the market becomes the engine of the economy and the multiplier of national economies if it does not eliminate their prerequisite. on this last point, i would like to make one comment: i am very pleased that the amendment has been adopted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is important that it gives the european commission a guideline on the follow-up to the public consultation on the future of european company law. as shown by the data provided by the studies that have been attached, more and more companies and enterprises operate within the single market on a cross-border level and therefore it is important to homogenise company models. i believe that the main merit of this resolution is that it has shown the commission the keywords to be followed, which are above all simplification, transparency, standardization of accounting systems, taking into account in particular the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, and the promotion of mobility. i hope that the commission's reply will arrive in due time and, above all, that it will take account of parliament's opinion.
in writing. the aim of this report is to: align regulation (ec) no 1300/2008 with the treaty of lisbon. i also voted in favour of the proposal, which has no impact on the union budget.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1300/2008 establishing a multiannual plan for the stock of herring to the west of scotland and the fisheries exploiting that stock, having been adopted before the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, contains certain provisions, namely articles 7 and 8, which confer decision-making powers on the council, and this is no longer possible under the treaty. the vote was in favour of aligning the regulation with the new overall framework of the treaty. in addition, the solution adopted for this regulation could affect the decision-making procedure applicable to other multiannual plans.
in writing. − over the years, the most serious industrial accidents resulting from the loss of control of certain dangerous substances, such as those in seveso, the netherlands, france and the united kingdom, have cost many lives and caused billions of euros in damage. in order to reduce the likelihood of such accidents occurring and to limit their consequences, the european union has adopted the seveso iii directive applicable to european establishments where dangerous substances (or mixtures) are present in quantities sufficient to constitute a major accident hazard. the introduction of this directive will strengthen the provisions on safety information and, in more detail, the operators of all establishments falling within its scope will be required to notify the competent authority and to draw up a strategy for the prevention of major accidents. while i welcome the introduction of new rules which are more restrictive than in the recent past in the area of plant inspection, i think it is important to stress here that the new environmental legislation as a whole will lead to a significant increase in the administrative burden on european companies.
in writing. - i welcome the reinforcement of inspection rules and the introduction of rules governing the right to information of both citizens and public authorities, which the seveso iii directive intends to introduce. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. since 1967, the year of the tragic seveso chemical disaster, europe has done much to ensure that accidents involving certain dangerous substances are prevented and their serious consequences for the environment and humans are reduced. among the new features which will be introduced by the new rules, i would like to focus first on easier access to information for the public. prevention and information are inseparable concepts. citizens should be given the tools to become more aware not only of the risks associated with industrial sites located in their territory, but above all of the possibility of mitigating the consequences of a major accident by adopting self-protection rules and implementing the safety measures indicated in the emergency plans. the information must be comprehensible, up-to-date and timely. in the event of an industrial disaster, constant communication via the internet with the affected populations can certainly facilitate the implementation of ongoing operations. finally, let us not forget that we cannot compromise on security: more effective prevention also requires strict controls of the plants at risk through constant inspections and the correct application of the rules in force.
in writing. - the serious industrial accidents associated with the use of certain dangerous substances led over the years to the adoption of the european seveso directive, so named after the seveso industrial district accident, which solved a problem that has unfortunately occurred relatively frequently. the principles of the report, which i have endorsed, are aimed at harmonizing the directive with the clp regulation and, where possible, reducing the administrative burden on undertakings. other important points in the report are those relating to access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice. these are clearly qualitative proposals and are intended to improve the existing regulatory framework. reducing major accidents related to the use of dangerous substances can also be achieved through improved communication, especially in relation to the best practices adopted by companies.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree that appropriate precautionary measures must be taken to ensure a high level of protection for citizens, communities, heritage and the environment throughout the union. it should be ensured that the existing high levels of protection are maintained and, if possible, further improved.
in writing. − industrial accidents often have devastating consequences, with billions of euros in damage and often hundreds of victims. it is therefore necessary to update the current countermeasures with a new regulation, which provides more detailed and efficient control rules and imposes action plans binding on all potentially dangerous establishments. it is also necessary to ensure greater protection of citizens' rights, which must be made more easily accessible to information on the control and participation in spatial planning projects. from now on, if this does not happen, it will be possible for citizens to go to court, allowing individuals to exert pressure directly on the competent authorities.
in writing. − the most serious industrial accidents in the eu member states have cost many lives and destroyed property and seriously damaged the environment, causing billions of euros in damage. this vote in favour will be an attempt to reduce the likelihood of similar accidents in the future. the obligations of operators and the authorities of the member states should be increased and better regulated in order to prevent accidents and limit their consequences. the different levels of obligations imposed on operators reflect a progressive approach whereby the higher the quantities of substances, the stricter the rules. all operators of establishments falling within the scope of the directive will be required to notify the competent authority and to develop a major accident prevention strategy. in addition, operators of 'upper-threshold establishments' will be required to develop a safety report, a safety management system and an emergency plan.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation in question, in updating directive 2009/39/ec to legal and market developments, has challenged the classification of many products as 'dietary' by laying down general provisions only for a limited number of food categories considered essential for certain more vulnerable groups of the population, namely food intended for infants, children and patients under medical supervision. at the same time, it has moved the protection of other categories (celiacs and lactose intolerant people) under other parts of eu legislation and other mechanisms. the positive vote on mrs ries' report, as a result of the vote in the envi committee, is a clear signal and a good starting point for the forthcoming negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the health and safety of workers, the protection of workers' rights and the protection of the environment.
in writing. - i believe that special attention should be given by the european union to certain patients for whom specific nutrition is of vital importance, including infants and children under three years of age. i therefore support the commission's decision to carry out a thorough review of legislation on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses, but on the condition that greater legal certainty is also guaranteed for industrial players. i welcome the amendment to the regulation in question which now also takes account of foodstuffs suitable for people intolerant to gluten in order to ensure that they have an appropriate legal framework. i think it is essential that the procedure for the notification of foodstuffs, which is faster and less burdensome than in the past, should remain the norm, while providing for a marketing authorization decided at national level and the possibility of enhancing this procedure by means of additional labelling rules. i agree with the rapporteur that stricter rules should be established than the pre-authorisation procedure for the placing of food on the market, i.e. that there should be notification to efsa for claims made on foods intended for infants and children aged between 1 and 3 years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i think that mrs ries has managed to strike a good balance between the specific needs which this regulation seeks to meet and the needs of all those who might be excluded. i am sorry to say that the position of many of my colleagues has not allowed the amendments which i and other italian colleagues have tabled to be accepted in their entirety. i am referring to the protection which i believe celiac patients deserve as consumers who have a limited choice of their own food and who should therefore not be lumped in with other, more fortunate categories of consumers. however, i accept the outcome of the democratic debate and i appreciate all the more the work done by the rapporteur, provided that it is translated into a coherent body of legislation, which protects those who deserve it and gives the right incentive to transparency and fairness. i think that this text provides a good starting point for the work that will be carried out at second reading.
in writing. − it is currently difficult for both the consumer and the control authorities to distinguish between food products for everyday consumption and those intended for specific groups. the reasons for these ambiguities may be differences in interpretation and application of the rules between member states. i have therefore voted in favour of the report by mrs frédérique ries: we need a new legislative order, uniform laws, to ensure innovation, the competitiveness of businesses and the protection of information for consumers. the european union must commit itself to a harmonised treatment in the field of food which is capable of guaranteeing greater legal, economic and social security, including not only goods consumed and produced within the european union but also those exported and imported. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's milk production is not affected by the increase in the quantity of milk products. statistics show that eating disorders are increasingly causing depression, stress, and malaise: let's help them make a life that's already complicated easier.
in writing. the current framework directive on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses needs to be updated, as there is a lack of harmonisation in this area and some difficulties for consumers and control authorities to distinguish such foods from those for ordinary consumption. the text is more than satisfactory in my view. it also provides for new rules for clearer and more effective labelling and for specific rules on food for celiac patients and those requiring special diets. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - foodstuffs have been the subject of several legislative measures at european level. in particular, it should be borne in mind that these products, having particular nutritional characteristics, have specific characteristics for different types of consumers. for infants, these specificities must be the focus of our attention. i therefore fully support the proposal to adopt communication criteria for the introduction of detailed information to combat widespread phenomena such as obesity and diabetes. in addition, it is urgently necessary to classify the categories of food for infants and children in a way that is more in line with the latest scientific findings, in order to allow them to grow up healthy and to make it easier for parents and childcare professionals to obtain correct information on these products, particularly those for special medical purposes such as gluten-free foods, which are therefore intended for celiac patients.
in writing. - we support the commission's approach to carrying out a thorough review of legislation on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses and to abolish the concept of dietary feedingstuffs, which often no longer makes nutritional sense. we believe, however, that it is necessary to provide greater legal certainty for the industrial players and vulnerable sections of the population concerned. the legal certainty that this implies is that the european parliament must regularly carry out democratic controls on the definitions and composition of foods for infants, children under three and certain groups of patients for whom a particular diet is of vital importance. this legal framework, which is simplified but also capable of providing greater protection, should apply in a similar way to imported and exported food products, thus facilitating the adoption of the precautionary principle. the proper functioning of the internal market is at stake, and the health of the most vulnerable groups of the european population cannot be neglected.
in writing. − food safety, especially when it is intended for vulnerable groups such as infants, children and people with specific diseases, is an essential precondition for the free movement of such persons and the proper functioning of the internal market. my vote was in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which is intended to better protect certain categories of particularly sensitive consumers, such as infants, children and people with eating disorders. i am particularly pleased that specific rules for the protection of people with celiac disease have been retained, despite an initial proposal by the european commission which was very flawed and punitive in this respect. celiac disease is one of the most serious and widespread eating disorders: in europe, it is estimated that one in a hundred citizens is affected, and it is therefore understandable why the maintenance of specific legislation for gluten intolerant people is necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is informed of the risks involved in the use of the product.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that breast milk is the most natural and fundamental food for infants during the weaning phase. not all mothers have this opportunity, however, either for physical reasons or because of the time available. in this case, therefore, we are relying on artificial milk, which certainly has a considerable nutritional value, but not such as to be advertised in such a way as to convey the message to consumers that it can perfectly replace breast milk. i therefore think it is right to call for stricter and better defined european rules on the labelling of baby milk and food for people with special dietary needs, such as celiac disease, to protect consumers and to provide clarity for the food industry. the non-medical quality of foods and the difference between infant and follow-on foods must be immediately apparent to consumers, who are often bombarded by the 'idealistic' images published on packaging. the right of member states to provide for even stricter measures if necessary is also a good thing.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this report. this is a major step forward in the protection of celiac citizens. the european commission's proposal was improved by the intervention of meps, especially italian meps. there is a profound lack of awareness in several member states about celiac disease: it's not a fad, and it's not an allergy. celiac disease is a disease and the statement 'gluten free' on food products cannot be trivialised as a mere 'claim' or allergen. celiacs can't even eat trace amounts of gluten. it will be important for the excellent rapporteur to be able to defend the improvements made to the text and to oppose any worsening proposals by the council.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation is aimed at a thorough review of the provisions on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses contained in the framework directive on dietetic products, which essentially refers to the 1979 legislation. the proposal aims to abolish the concept of dietary foods and to establish a new framework containing general provisions only for a limited number of well-defined categories of foods which are considered essential for certain particularly vulnerable groups of the population, such as foods for infants and children and foods to be used under the supervision of a doctor. vulnerable persons need greater protection than the rest of the population and must be able to benefit from a high level of legislative certainty. the proposal also aims to create a single legal act laying down the lists of substances which may be added to the categories of foodstuffs covered by this proposal. the current divergences between member states in the implementation of existing legislation are too wide, causing market distortions and administrative burdens.
in writing. − dietary foods, which have been part of the european legislative body since 1977, and were then considered 'food for particular nutritional uses' in 2009 in a framework directive, are currently difficult to identify and associate with the right categories of intended use for both the final consumer and the control authorities. it is precisely the lack of transparency in this situation that clearly calls for a reorganization of food legislation aimed at specific groups of the population, starting with infants and children under three years of age for whom a specific diet is of vital importance and who deserve special attention and harmonized treatment in the european union. i am voting in favour of this, because i believe that legislation is needed to safeguard the health of the people of the union, including proper nutrition from birth, and to ensure that there are no pesticides or any toxic substances in food intended for children and infants or for special medical purposes.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation aims to review the provisions on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses contained in directive 2009/39/ec. among the various objectives of the new proposal for a regulation is the creation of a single legal act laying down the lists of substances such as minerals and vitamins which may be added to the category of foodstuffs covered by the proposal.
in writing. - i fully agree that the commission should ensure that every eu citizen can address the eu institutions in any of the eu's official languages. it is also good that public consultations are available in all the official eu languages, that they are all treated equally and that there is no discrimination between them on the basis of language. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − it is essential that every citizen has the right to address the institutions and that he can do so in any of the official languages of the european union. people with disabilities in particular need more accessible forms of communication, as they must be able to have the same opportunity to address the institutions directly. well-designed public consultations are one of the main tools of democratic governance, implement europe's transparency policy and must be treated equally, without discrimination on linguistic grounds.
in writing. − public participation is the basis of democratic governance and its legitimisation. public consultations in this field are one of the main instruments for implementing the community's policy of transparency in its communication dialogue with the citizens of the union. it is therefore necessary to protect the possibility for every citizen of the union to speak to the community institutions in any language he chooses, which is of course recognised as an official language of the union. i therefore vote in favour of all consultations being treated equally and without discrimination on the basis of language, given the right to equality which our founding fathers have always enshrined and perpetuated.
in writing. − in the treaty on european union, the member states have committed themselves to safeguarding the principles of democracy and respect for human rights. of course, all the applicant countries must meet these conditions from the start of the negotiations, but this does not mean that we are indifferent to conditions outside the community. these past few years have been extremely dramatic for tibet, and the message has come through loud and clear from the people of that nation: after 50 years of chinese occupation, tibetans are strongly demanding real change from the world, a change that involves dialogue with chinese leaders and not escalation of violence. the strategic partnership between the european union and the people's republic of china should be based on common principles and values: the great economic dependence of the latter on 'made in china' exports and the great importance that china attaches to its international reputation can influence this change with our efforts. the european union must take concrete action to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of citizens, freedom of expression and association and the release of political prisoners.
in writing. − the reluctance of the chinese authorities to organise such a dialogue every two years and their position on the modalities and frequency of the meetings, in particular with regard to strengthening the civil society component and its participation in the negotiations, is unacceptable. the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy should make every effort to ensure that the human rights dialogue is more effective and results-oriented. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the protest in ngaba on 16 march 2008 commemorates the death of more than 200 tibetans and the thousands of wounded and arrested by the chinese authorities, who in their own way used violent repression to suppress the voice of tibetan protesters calling for tibetan independence. in the light of what has happened and in order to prevent such human rights violations from being repeated, i join the call to reiterate that the strategic partnership between the european union and the people's republic of china must be based on common principles and values, and the call to intensify efforts to address the human rights situation of the tibetan people in the framework of the eu-china human rights dialogue. i also support the just governance initiated by his holiness the dalai lama and handed over to the present kalon tripa, democratically elected to the central tibetan administration, aimed at the full autonomy of the tibetan people within the people's republic of china and within the framework of the constitution of the people's republic of china.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'internal market scoreboard' because i share the need to promote a coordinated and cooperative approach in order to make the internal market work better by means of a timely and complete transposition of community legislation in this field by the member states. full transposition would allow the single market to be strengthened and its functioning to be improved. i welcome the creation, as suggested by mr busuttil, of a body headed by an internal market prosecutor who can operate without political pressure, addressing and resolving possible violations. i also agree with the reference to solvit, which is a very useful instrument because it allows member states to work together in resolving issues concerning the misuse of the internal market rules and i therefore believe that it is necessary to ensure a good level of funding by member states to ensure its best functioning. finally, i hope that the new instruments will increase transparency and make it possible to understand the reasons for the non-transposition or partial transposition by those member states which do not transpose community legislation in this field in a timely manner.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i cannot accept that the single market is portrayed as the best european achievement, which should have brought only benefits to all. unfortunately, the reality is quite different, and the internal market has often been used only by large multinationals to expand their business; in other sectors, such as goods and services, the rules imposed by brussels have brought few benefits and many problems. i am referring in particular to the hundreds of very small, often family-run, businesses in the bathing industry which are still threatened by the implementation of the infamous 'services directive', which we have always opposed, on our own, since its adoption. the same problems have been experienced by other categories of people, such as the street vendors in the markets: all this leads me to say that the single market may have created some benefits, but that there are still many critical issues and problems to be solved.
in writing. the single european model must be put into practice: europe must aim at a market that is inclusive, competitive and secure, all for the benefit of its citizens. real sustainable and lasting growth must take into account the rights of producers, workers and investors, as well as citizens and consumers.
in writing. - the resolution, which is the result of the work of the members of the committee on the internal market, is very interesting and contains references which i believe will be useful in helping the european commission to understand better what the future scenarios of the internal market might be. i voted against the resolution because of the premises which i believe are wrong in the text. to overemphasize the importance of the internal market as a crisis solver or to say that it is the element whose completion would automatically lead to growth throughout the union is to say things that are not true. our businesses need the internal market, but the reasons for the crisis are other, much deeper and more serious.
in writing. − the end of 2012 will mark the 20th anniversary of the birth of the single market. the creation of the single market with open borders has been one of the main drivers of growth in europe over the past two decades. recent globalisation and technological developments have, however, created new challenges for the european union. reducing bureaucratic burdens is one of the union's long-standing objectives, but it is not enough. europe needs an accelerated procedure to remedy this well-known problem. in this connection i too think that a further agreement on the internal market, such as the one proposed by the commission, would be useful, as it would streamline the processes of international exchange and cooperation aimed at achieving common growth.
in writing. − the single market can only benefit from the prospects of a truly european company law, which can offer an action plan with clear and accessible rules. this must be put to the service of small and mediumsized enterprises in particular, which account for over 90% of all european enterprises. europe needs a single market where businesses can move around without bureaucratic restrictions as much as the workers they employ.
in writing. − company law can act as a driving force for the development of the internal market, which is currently stagnating and failing in the face of the evident crisis that has hit europe since 2008. today more than ever this area of law requires structural reforms. we need an action plan where the rules are clear and accessible, where the issues of simplifying bureaucracy are absolutely clear, where company law is at the service of small and mediumsized enterprises and at the service of companies which still make up over 90% of european companies. the commission's efforts to modernise the structure of company law while keeping in mind the constantly changing global market situation are essential in this respect.
in writing. − it is clear that the achievement of the europe 2020 targets in terms of employment levels will be difficult to achieve, and yet the national reform programmes lack any effective and strong effort to reverse the trend in the deep crisis we are going through. the commitment to young people has shown no sign of reversing course, and yet in the debate on future cohesion policy, the union has the opportunity to define and introduce in the regulations under the scrutiny of the european parliament mechanisms for rewards so that every euro spent under the new mff is aimed at creating new and good youth employment. a european investment strategy must be launched, focusing on modernising infrastructure, human capital and laying the foundations for a sustainable economy. to finance this initiative, the union must provide additional resources from its budget: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and tax evasion. without these instruments, the risk of an irreversible decline and of the marginalization of the european economy and european politics on the world stage will become increasingly real.
in writing. - i voted with full conviction for the resolution tabled by mr berès, although it was accompanied by a departure prejudice linked to the lack of full agreement on the guidelines currently expressed by the european summits on the priorities of the union to deal with the economic and financial crisis and, above all, its heavy effects on the real economies of individual countries. work is a right and a duty which democratic institutions such as ours must endeavour to protect. the negative figures recorded in the last year also call for more decisive action. i share the approach of the resolution in this respect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because we must not forget our primary objective: the europe 2020 strategy. support entrepreneurship, new business creation and self-employment as tools for creating new jobs, especially in view of the fact that smes and micro-enterprises account for more than two thirds of private sector jobs in the union. this is the road to take, even if it's uphill. the system of monitoring the labour market and the control programmes for countries which do not comply with the specific recommendations addressed to them are therefore very good. we strongly hope for a 'european investment pact' by the heads of state and government which could be an important element in the transition from a unilateral approach based on fiscal austerity to a more balanced approach and could provide europe with a new impetus to emerge from the crisis. the energy efficiency directive, which is capable of creating two million jobs, is a prime example. finally, we cannot welcome the proposal to reduce the tax burden on labour without affecting the budget, since the tax wedge between the cost of employing an employee and the actual salary of the employee is often more than 40% in the eu.
in writing. the european commission has put forward an important proposal on the employment package. this is a difficult challenge in the context of the current crisis but is in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. to achieve this, workers need to be competent and able to navigate an increasingly dynamic labour market. a european investment plan is needed, with a coherent industrial strategy that invests in public services, based on new sources of income and giving priority to investments that promote a sustainable economy, quality work and social justice. the creation of jobs is complemented by the regularisation of existing but clandestine jobs.
in writing. - i welcome the employment package which the commission presented in april. the latter is the medium-term agenda for the union and member states' action to support an employment recovery in this period of crisis. the green economy, healthcare, and information and communication technologies are the areas of attraction for the creation of new jobs. i believe that the support for apprenticeships for young people entering the labour market and continuing training and updating are essential in this respect, so that we can move together towards sustainable growth.
in writing. − dear mr president, with this text we call upon the un general assembly to adopt a resolution at its 67th session with a view to banning female genital mutilation worldwide. it is important to reiterate that any form of female genital mutilation is a harmful traditional practice that is not part of a religion but is an act of violence against women and a violation of their fundamental rights. this practice is an irreparable abuse that intentionally alters female genitals for non-medical reasons. expert analysis shows that in the word more than 140 million women alive today are living with female genital mutilation and that further three million girls are at risk of undergoing the procedure each year. only in europe the women subjected to this practice are around 500 000. for this reason member states must take a firm action to combat this illegal practice and the commission should give specific attention to female genital mutilation as part of an overall strategy for combating violence against women.
in writing. - gender-based violence and all forms of harassment and exploitation are incompatible with the dignity and worth of the human person and must be eliminated: the full and equal participation of women in civil, social, cultural, economic and political life and the elimination of all forms of discrimination are priority objectives of the international community: in fact, the protection of women's rights has received a significant boost thanks to international instruments and the commitment of the united nations and the european union. as far as female genital mutilation is concerned, i think we can all agree that it is a form of severe abuse and torture of girls, and i want to be specific, girls as young as four years old. too many women are still subjected to these practices today, which cause psychological trauma, indescribable physical suffering and health repercussions and which cannot find legitimacy in a tradition or justification as a symbol of identity. my dear colleagues, we must shout our loud 'no' to female genital mutilation.
in writing. - i express my firm and convincing support for the european parliament's resolution on the elimination of female genital mutilation. the fight against this inhuman practice, which can no longer be concealed by religious justification, means not only opposing the degrading treatment which affects 140 million women today, but also fighting against the severe discrimination to which the female sex continues to be subjected. the european commission must give its approval for the allocation of financial resources to combat this phenomenon, such as the implementation of a specific programme for third countries. in this way, the member states will be able to express their joint action against the continuing violence perpetrated against millions of women.
in writing. - female genital mutilation is an act of violence against women and as such must be combated and punished! the joint resolution on this point was a necessary step and a valuable achievement. there can be no political divisions on such a cross-cutting issue! what women, especially young women, are forced to endure is inhuman in itself and becomes dramatic because of the additional health consequences it brings. parliament must make its voice heard and shout its disapproval. i thank the colleagues who have worked so that we would not be absent.
in writing. - it is estimated that around 140 million women worldwide have undergone genital mutilation, and in europe alone, the figure is a considerable half million. it is therefore clear that this is a widespread phenomenon, and not so far removed from our daily reality. girls, very often girls, who are subjected to this mortifying treatment can suffer immediate and devastating physical consequences, and no less dangerous moral consequences, which linger over time. these violations can in no way be justified, nor can the principle of respect for traditions or religious beliefs be invoked: the question here is respect for the person as such, for the dignity of women and of human beings. this resolution, unanimously adopted by the european parliament, must be a further stimulus to continue the fight to stamp out this odious phenomenon, which is far from being extinguished and which is showing dangerous signs of recovery, unfortunately also in europe.
in writing. - mr president, i want to publicly express my vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the abolition of female genital mutilation. this barbaric practice is not justified by any health grounds and does not comply with any religious precept, but is only an act of violence against women, a violation of their right to security and integrity of persons, as well as to mental, physical, sexual and reproductive health. in addition, because it is often practiced with rudimentary means and without antiseptic precautions, it exposes women to additional harmful effects such as the onset of infections, shock and transmission of the aids virus. since the majority of girls who are mutilated are under 15 years of age, this practice is a violation of the rights of minors. i therefore join my colleagues in calling for the united nations assembly next october to adopt a resolution to abolish female genital mutilation worldwide, to strengthen regional and international legal instruments so that any violation of the new rules prohibiting it is punished severely and unequivocally, and to create new mechanisms for coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the application of the laws.
in writing. - female genital mutilation is an irreparable violation intended to alter or damage the female genitalia without any health justification, with irreversible consequences currently affecting 140 million women and girls and not attributable to any religion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. in view of the seriousness of the issue, i join the call on the united nations general assembly to adopt a resolution at its 67th session to abolish female genital mutilation worldwide, as called for by the african union summit on 2 july 2011, by harmonising the actions taken by member states and strengthening regional and international legal instruments, as well as by developing strengthened national standards.
in writing. − thousands of women have had implants implanted whose contents, not suitable for medical use, may prove harmful. these women entrusted their health (and their money) to a fraud, unaware that industrial silicone had been added to the prostheses. on 3 june 2012, the french agency for medical devices published data on accident reports in women wearing pip breast implants (approximately 30000 in france). these are the numbers: - failure of the plant: 2252 , and - inflammatory reactions: 1380 women, - ex-post workers: 7868, of which 5257 are provisional. in italy, according to data provided by the ministry of health, 121 residential and care facilities and 48 outpatient facilities reported having carried out pip prosthetic procedures for a total of 3911 implants. it is very serious that an accident of this magnitude could have happened. and it's the health of the citizens that we're talking about. it has to be a top priority. the quality and safety of medical equipment must be improved and patient confidence restored. this can only happen in a clear, secure and strengthened legal framework.
in writing. − i agree with the call on member states to increase awareness of the potential risks of cosmetic surgery and to better regulate its publicity, so as to ensure that patients are fully aware of both the risks and the benefits. it is also right to stress the need for women to be informed that breast implants must be replaced after a certain period of time, which varies from person to person, so that they can better assess the risks. my vote was in favour.
in writing. − based on available data, it is estimated that approximately 400,000 silicone breast implants from the company pip (poly implant prothèse) have been sold worldwide and that these implants have been widely used in the united kingdom, france, spain, germany and italy, all eu member states. in the light of the above, it is emphasised that patients should be informed that in some cases the prosthesis is not permanent and that the need for replacement or removal may arise. i therefore support the call for prior assessment of the marketing of certain categories of medical devices and for the introduction of a passport for the recipient of the prosthesis, which should include the specific characteristics of the prosthesis, its potential health risks and post-operative health measures, and the passport should be signed by the surgeon and the patient and serve as consent for the operation.
some 250,000 children under the age of five suffering from severe and acute malnutrition in the sahel region received nutrition assistance in the first four months of this year as part of the ongoing food emergency response. it is also expected that at least one million children will need life-saving assistance in 2012 and the number of specialized care centers in the nine african states affected by the crisis has risen to 5,200. the peak in the number of people in need of aid will be reached in the next three months as the region is beginning to go through the driest and hardest season of the year. in addition to the nutritional emergency, other needs are added to mali, where the protracted armed conflict has forced 170,000 people to flee their homes. this resolution reiterates the urgency of receiving additional funds along with other international actions for those who are experiencing this situation of insecurity and in particular for the children and women who are suffering in extreme conditions in the sahel, besieged by insidious diseases such as cholera or victims of violence as in mali. mr president, i would ask you to vote on this resolution by roll call.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the maguindanao massacre occurred in 2009 and the victims, who were on their way to present a certificate of candidacy for the vice mayor of the city of buluan, were kidnapped and brutally murdered 58 people in total, including the wife of the aspiring candidate, his sisters, 35 journalists and lawyers, assistants and motorists. the most incredible thing is that since then justice has not been able to take its course, also because of the lack of independence of the country's judicial body and the absence of developments in the processes already underway. twenty-five charges are pending against andal ampatuan, who is believed to be the mastermind of the massacre and who was seen directing the killers against these innocent people. but his family is a powerful family in the territory, and so few people would be willing to testify against him in a courtroom. we call today for justice to be served on the guilty who are still at large, for the philippines to ratify international treaties and for its government to amend its laws so that human rights are fully respected in the country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the judicial system of the islamic republic of iran has sentenced 600 iranian citizens to a total of 300 years of deprivation of their social rights. members of religious minorities in iran have received sentences totaling 4,000 months in prison. in iran, many obstacles are faced by those seeking to obtain data on minorities, because the islamic republic does not allow activists and human rights defenders to do their work by collecting information on violations of fundamental rights and also prohibits the free flow of information. but even taking these difficulties and obstacles into account, some trends can be seen. in particular, you can see that the regime is intensifying the pressure on religious minorities, in particular, and i want to emphasize in particular, on christian ones - i don't know why we are afraid to say it or to write it in our resolutions - and, more generally, on all forms of religiosity that deviate from the shiite version of islamic faith. those belonging to religious minorities are seen as b-class citizens and sometimes considered outlaws.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to make it clear that i was not present at the last part-session: i was invited by the united nations to work on the un report on transnational organized crime cases, precisely as the chairman of crim. i shall be happy to see that you have the invitation from the united nations, the proceedings and the minutes as soon as possible, so i ask that everything be put on the record as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs who have worked with me on this important recommendation, the secretariat of the committee on transport and the socialist and democratic group. after almost two years of long and difficult negotiations with the shadow rapporteurs, the council and the commission, the european parliament has managed to make a lot of progress, in particular by ensuring more competition between railway operators, the supervision of a strong and independent national regulator, which ensures fair competition, and the obligation to deal with complaints for the first time within a set timeframe of six to a maximum of 16 weeks, the creation of a european network of national regulators and a rendezvous clause for the creation of a european regulator. the new rules, which should also provide a solid basis for infrastructure financing with contracts of a minimum duration of five years, and the agreement reached to strengthen the existing rules and to create a single european railway area should also allow all railway undertakings to have equal access to a wider range of services, such as maintenance and station services, including ticket sales, and ensure equal access to the railway network. the new rules provide for stronger rules for the appointment of staff and for full independence through cooling-on and cooling-off and the provision of a declaration of interest to be submitted by members of the regulator. the regulatory recommendations to licensing and security authorities are also provided to avoid that, for example, security standards can be used to restrict market access. the new regulation will extend the competence of the regulatory bodies to the related rail services and the control of the separation of accounts. it will be clarified that regulators are required to review both the provisional and the final versions of the network information leaflets, which are an essential tool to ensure that market access conditions are known by all operators. in addition to intervening in a limited time in the event of a complaint, the regulator will be able to intervene for the introduction of markups on the direct costs of infrastructure managers, will be able to control the criteria for the introduction of reservation rights and will be able to consult railway users regularly. thanks to the european parliament's intervention, a network of regulatory bodies has also been established: the content of the information will be exchanged in a clear manner and will be guaranteed by the commission, which will have to assess the efficiency of the regulatory bodies' cooperation with the new network and propose complementary measures to ensure more integrated control of the european railway market, hoping that a european regulatory body may be established in the future. as regards infrastructure financing, the multiannual contractual agreement has a minimum duration of five years and a maximum duration of three years, and there is a provision that makes it mandatory for member states to make good the deficit in the accounts of the infrastructure manager at the latest every five years. a forecast has also been entered... (the president cut off the speaker) in order to have a single rail market, it is necessary to ensure non-discriminatory market access, so that although the unbundling requirements for service facilities have not been imposed on all types of infrastructure, the opening of the service market is wide-ranging, with a wide list of essential services and non-discriminatory access to infrastructure and services themselves. a 'use it or lease it' clause was also introduced for services not in use for at least two years instead of three years. as regards costs, and in particular noise, a compromise was reached which is optional for the member states but which is obligatory in accordance with the community rules to be applied, and which provides for a bonus system to facilitate the retrofitting of trains. for etcs, a system is envisaged which is mandatory for all member states to apply on ertms lines, the adoption of a bonus-malus system for trains provided by etcs systems according to common parameters provided by the commission. the cost differentiation will be absolutely revenue-neutral for the infrastructure manager. on the separation, despite my strong opinion to have a separation between infrastructure manager and railway undertaking, a good compromise has been reached, which provides for the transparency of financial flows from infrastructure manager to railway undertakings in integrated companies, as well as the rendez-vous clause for the submission of a legislative proposal on the separation and opening of the national passenger market by the end of 2012. i would remind the house that amendments may be tabled tomorrow during the vote. if some of these amendments, which are outside the text, are accepted by a majority of the house, the text will be put to a vote. this would further hamper the outcome of the discussion on the fourth railway package. i therefore appeal to the ability of my colleagues to understand how important it is to get a vote on the railway recast tomorrow, so that we can continue to work on the fourth railway package later.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text which will be voted on tomorrow represents a small and difficult step towards the creation of a genuine european railway market. the commission has been working hard to achieve an interesting result on the powers of national regulators, but unfortunately it has not been able to move towards a european regulator. the liberalization of national and regional passenger markets with reciprocity is once again avoided, postponed, regarded as non-priority. we have heard for too many years about the potential of the single market, the impact that its implementation would have on the economy of the european union, the strong response, and these sectoral reforms that aim to achieve it, and then we all get behind positions of national advantage. i think that the time in which we live should not allow us to have this kind of delay, and we consider that we still have 30 months to receive it. however, i thank the rapporteur for this first step and all those who have helped.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention to a subject which has not been discussed much so far, namely the problem of noise. we have not taken the opportunity of the recast to introduce a really drastic regulation of noise emissions. there are at least two reasons why we have to do this. firstly, in transport there are clear regulations on noise emissions in all areas - road, air - except rail. why would that be? there's no reason for that. secondly, the cost of the refurbishment would be low: between eur 5 000 and eur 10 000 per car. i think that's actually an amount that could be raised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the noise levels of the railways are reduced.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in drawing up this report no account has been taken of the direct interests involved: the transport companies. in italy 91% of goods transport is by road. their rights will be ignored if this report is adopted in its present form. in many committees of this parliament we are working every day to reduce the financial and administrative burden on our companies, but reports like this one are putting all our efforts to waste, because they will suffocate the companies themselves with new bureaucratic burdens, with numerous economic losses and with new forms of unfair competition. it would have taken little to achieve a balanced relationship, one which would not have forgotten the right of our companies to survive in a very difficult economic period, but such a dialogue has not been possible. on the contrary, the report deliberately ignored even previous eu legislation such as the 2002 working time directive it even ignored the european commission documents which recognised the dangers of practices such as retrofitting which are instead re-proposed in this report. the document we are voting on tomorrow will ask us to forget the positive achievements of the last few years and to make european companies pay the price once again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a problematic situation. a significant proportion of the vehicles checked by the national police and by the officials responsible for checking them are in breach of social standards: it was found that about a quarter of these breached the tachograph regulations. such non-compliance with minimum rest periods also gives an undue competitive advantage to the offender, with a negative impact on the functioning of the internal market and serious consequences for the health of drivers. i am in favour of the installation requirements and the requirement to adopt the new tachograph in 2020 seems to me to take due account of the time needed to market this instrument and the costs involved in its installation. i am also well aware of the problems - and i share them - that small and mediumsized enterprises and small craftsmen raise, and i share them, but i do not feel that i share the derogations because they create a fragmented system with differences between member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur's work is excellent. i think there are three things in this matter that are more important than anything else: the first is the uniformity of the rules. i too, like other colleagues, believe that a system of derogations can be dangerous, because it would lead to the gradual disintegration of the basic rule and create many unfair situations which then feed unfair competition. the second is the one concerning working time and rest time: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to work and rest is respected. in this case, however, the rest period has a further significance: if it is not adequate, if it is not applied correctly, it risks drastically reducing safety and thus creating a major problem for the user, or more simply for people who are on the road at the time. for this reason i think it should be looked at with all due attention and not underestimated in any of its aspects.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ticau, on her work. the installation and use of the tachograph, if used correctly, can certainly be a great tool for improving road safety and the working conditions of road hauliers, while at the same time meeting their legitimate privacy needs. to protect drivers, stricter rules on driving time and rest are certainly needed. i therefore welcome the new rules aimed at improving the functions of the tachograph, such as the use of wireless communications for roadside checks to reduce the number of vehicles stopped and the provisions on the training of road-control officers. with a view to ensuring road safety in the european union at all possible levels, it is of paramount importance to affirm a clear and comprehensive principle of co-responsibility, and for this reason i welcome the compromise found by the rapporteur, according to which the parties involved must carry out regular checks as already provided for in article 10 (4) of regulation 561/2006. as regards the installation of the tachograph by all vehicles not exempted, i would ask that account be taken of the need for the obligations connected with compliance with the procedure not to impose an excessive burden in economic and bureaucratic terms on small and mediumsized undertakings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, our aim is to guarantee consumers, and to do that we must avoid making mistakes of excessive or presumed rigor. i think, for example, that it is a mistake to entrust the customs authorities with the task of inspecting patents: the customs authorities do not have this competence, they do not have the necessary professionalism and if they were given this task they would end up distorting the market to the detriment of consumers. the same reasoning applies to generic medicines: generic drugs are not counterfeit drugs, they are drugs that use only the product molecule and therefore, because they have no excipients, they cost much less than other drugs. if the difference between a specialty medicinal product and a generic medicinal product is not made clear, there is a risk of creating barriers and obstacles to generic medicinal products to the detriment of consumers, and for this reason i believe that the position we have taken as a group to call for a change in the legislation on this subject is entirely reasonable and sustainable.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although 71% of the earth's surface is covered by water, the part of it that can be used for drinking purposes is only 0.008% of the total. the sometimes unnecessary use of this resource has led to a potential further loss of around 40% of the available resources. today, nearly 2 billion people lack access to safe drinking water, and as many as 20 million children die each year from such deficiencies. the quality of water is of fundamental importance in a world where the protection of the health of citizens must be a priority. there are still large areas in europe where this quality is seriously affected by industrial and agricultural pollution. we cannot tolerate any longer that many cities dump their waste water into the environment without any sort of treatment. a joint effort by the 27 member states is needed to make use of water more rationally, particularly for human use. it is essential to identify and remediate areas contaminated by industrial sites, unsafe or unsafe dumping sites for toxic and harmful waste. in a time of economic crisis, when resources are precious, it is necessary to invest in safeguarding a good that is likely to become increasingly valuable, by developing transparent pricing systems and applying the polluter pays principle. i would like to conclude by reiterating that drinking water must be public and must be protected from any speculation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i warmly congratulate mr seeber on his excellent report, which has already been unanimously approved by the committee on the environment. this resolution is important because it is part of a legislative process that started in 2000 with the water framework directive. that directive set the union states the ambitious target of achieving optimum ecological and chemical status of water in all european water bodies by 2015. we know today that because of old and new challenges not all member states will achieve the objective set by the union. the commission has, in the meantime, started a number of assessments which will enable it to launch a plan for the protection of europe's water resources to be published later this year. the plan fits neatly into the union's broader agenda for achieving the europe 2020 and longer-term goals up to 2050. the report before us today is the european parliament's qualified and important contribution to the plan for the conservation of the union's water resources. the report identifies in detail the shortcomings, deficiencies and delays and suggests that urgent and necessary measures be taken to protect the universal right of citizens to have access to good and sufficient water. i would like to draw parliament's attention to the need for the union to take effective action against the leakage and dispersion of drinking water into urban networks due to the ageing of these networks. the rates of dispersion and loss vary from one country to another, of course, but they are still very high overall. the waste water treatment also requires urgent action because in many cases the treatment is absolutely inadequate and insufficient.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after seven years of cash integration, the indian ownership of the videocon plant in the town of anagni has filed for bankruptcy, effectively initiating the procedure for the dismissal of 1 300 employees. a large company, the second largest in the lazio region, is closing its doors and with it the industrial enterprises. a company bought with the aim of bankrupting it and relocating production to third countries. it is therefore necessary that the institutions now work to ensure a future for videocon and its workers, who are living through a difficult time of crisis and for seven long years a condition of absolute employment uncertainty. italy and europe must intervene and put in place all the necessary instruments to ensure employment and a productive future for this important plant.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank marit paulsen for her report. it seems very strange to me that in this very prestigious chamber, where important decisions are to be taken, there is still someone who, in a misguided and anachronistic animalist spirit, without any benefit to human welfare or health, is wasting precious time and bringing costs to all european citizens and taxpayers. in the face of a text which is potentially of great interest to animal lovers - including myself - and which of course has positive consequences for the animals themselves, amendments are being proposed which distort all the assumptions and the very meaning of the welfare of our friends, with abstract suggestions and of no legal or ethical value. i cannot therefore avoid asking whether we should be investing time and resources, or perhaps it would be better to say 'wasting', in proposals which are of no practical interest to the european citizens and i shall therefore vote in favour of mrs paulsen's report.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am pleased to see that many events and discussions have taken place this year in the european parliament, in the council and elsewhere, in the light of the commission’s communication which introduced the eu animal welfare strategy. the strategy proposes a new approach to the future of animal welfare in europe. after nearly 40 years of legislation, there is still room for improvement in this field, across the eu. the strategy is about better enforcement of eu legislation, better information for consumers, a simplified legislative framework and a focus on education and technical assistance to stakeholders at grassroots level. before addressing specific issues, let me first express my appreciation for the excellent work of the rapporteur, ms paulsen, who has produced a balanced report on this complex and highly sensitive area. i am glad to note that parliament supports the commission’s view on the key elements of the strategy: proposing a simplified framework law that, while taking into due account specificities of particular species and sectors, covers all animals kept in the context of an economic activity; considering a european network of reference centres for animal welfare to ensure that competent authorities receive uniform technical information on the way that eu legislation should be implemented and to disseminate expertise, research findings and technical innovation; developing animal welfare indicators in the framework law to optimise animal welfare outcomes – and i am aware that there are remaining issues of practicability to be considered here; and introducing legal milestones to help ensure that member states implement new legislation properly. in addition, the report emphasises the need to ensure better enforcement of existing legislation – something that is also of central concern to the commission. i share the views expressed in ms paulsen’s report on the importance of supporting and optimising international cooperation in the multilateral arena, especially the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao) and the world organisation for animal health (oie) – as well as in bilateral negotiations by including animal welfare in negotiations with third countries – and on promoting eu views and understanding on welfare standards. this is all the more important because food production has, in the meantime, become a global activity with a possible influence, inter alia, on competitiveness. there are, however, some elements of this report on which the commission has not formed a definitive position, and on which more reflection is needed before any action is proposed. for example, the report suggests that the commission should consider developing a coherent eu-wide labelling scheme for producers, which would go beyond the current legislation on labelling. i too would like eu producers who wish to improve the welfare of animals beyond minimum standards to receive a better price. however, we need to consider all options carefully, and indeed to ask whether a legislative approach would be the most appropriate. the report also calls for mandatory animal welfare measures in the framework of rural development programmes. as honourable members will know, the revision of the regulation on rural development programmes is part of the revision of the cap. this idea would therefore be best explored within the context of cap reform discussions. i do, however, share the view expressed in the report about improving coherence in our overall approach. animal welfare is a cross-cutting issue on which a range of other policies have an impact. i therefore consider this to be a very sound and useful suggestion. let me turn to the welfare of pet animals. the commission has agreed to make a series of studies, including one on this specific issue in the context of the strategy. on the basis of the results of this exercise, we will consider how best to proceed. allow me to address one issue relating to animal transport, which ties into the important discussion on animal welfare. some weeks ago, i had the pleasure and the honour of receiving a delegation that handed me a petition to legislate for an eight-hour transport limit. i explained that, for various reasons, we are not in a position to agree to this request, although we will be tackling the issue in the context of the revision of the framework law on animal welfare – which is proposed as part of the animal welfare strategy we are discussing today and which could suggest, inter alia, new tools to improve the enforcement of animal welfare legislation, including during transport. i have been consistent in saying that enforcement is key to the issue of animal transport, and in saying that the commission is not considering proposing any changes to the animal transport regulation. in council on 18 june 2012, i stated that we have proposed a broad array of legislative and non-legislative actions to improve the welfare of animals during transport substantially. i have to admit that i have particular sympathy for the situation of animals travelling excessively long journey times to slaughter. as i announced at that council meeting, i am ready to examine all data that could shed light on this issue. we must also look into the proposals in the animal welfare strategy which, i believe, contains several actions that have the potential to improve the welfare of animals during transport substantially. i would like to comment on a couple of other points. first of all, on the incomprehension in hungary over the issue of cages for laying hens, i must say that the directive in question was enacted 12 years ago. the prescribed transition period ended at the end of last year and, while some countries had a shorter time to prepare and change, one has to consider that all these countries, including my own country, negotiated about this directive during their accession negotiations. therefore everyone knew exactly what the timeframe and the commitments were. on cloning, i have also gone on record many times to say that the commission is currently undertaking an in-depth impact assessment of the cloning issue, and i will be coming before this parliament and the council with a proposal on a stand-alone directive on cloning. to conclude, may i once again thank parliament, and in particular ms paulsen and her team, for this valuable report. i look forward to parliament and the commission making further progress together as the strategy unfolds.
in writing. i will vote in favour of the new european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals. animal welfare must be protected at european level, since the protection guaranteed at national level is often not sufficient. modern consumers reasonably expect farm animals to have the same rights as humans: good food, good living conditions and adequate medical care. in addition, animal health standards are of vital importance for the management of farm animals in europe, an aspect which has a growing impact on the level of competitiveness of farms. as we all know by now, animals have been declared 'sentient beings' in the treaty of lisbon and as such we must treat them. this applies to pets, farm animals, slaughter animals and stray dogs. i hope that more precise and life-saving measures will soon be taken also for animals for slaughter, and i am thinking of the time of their transport, when they are often already considered carcasses rather than living animals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my sincere congratulations to the danish presidency for the excellent work it has done and for the important results it has achieved in the european semester. i am particularly pleased with the excellent negotiating skills which have been demonstrated and which have contributed, albeit in a somewhat articulated way, to the conclusion of a vulgar and absurd diatribe such as that concerning the allocation of the seat of the patent court. as rapporteur, i regretfully agreed to postpone the final vote following the council's unilateral proposal to amend the proposal for a regulation, but i cannot help but point out that this is an unacceptable way of doing things, seriously undermining the constitutional balance of the european union, particularly in a subject and in a measure which is fundamental to stimulating economic growth in the european union in key areas such as innovation. it is a measure in which parliament has taken a programmatic and constructive line. i therefore express my deep regret at what has happened and i call on the council of ministers, represented by the cypriot presidency, to find a solution as soon as possible on the substance and on the procedure. this parliament will not scuttle a project which has been in progress for over thirty years, nor will this parliament allow the rules governing interinstitutional relations to be changed unilaterally by any institution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, i understand that mrs harms of the green group is a little tired of football comparisons, but i think one in particular can help us: the european championship has ended with a clear result, spain has won! the european council has ended and the results are not clear, because if we look at the press of the different member states, each country claims a different result, and each president of the council of the member states who participated claims a different result. mr president-in-office, can you tell us what you have agreed? do you think that 500 million european citizens have a right to know what you have agreed? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the commission should be very careful, because what it says depends on the survival of the government of my country and has long since depended on the survival of the governments of our countries. i believe that 60 million italians who under the prodi and berlusconi governments have been maneuvering for 145 billion euros and who under the monti government are making sacrifices for many billions of euros also have the dignity and the right to be given precise answers. we therefore want to know very concretely what was agreed in the council and what you agreed, what obligations it has to the governments of the member states, which today fill us with contradictory statements? is finland obliged to do so? is the netherlands obliged to? are we bound by what we've shown as an agreement or not?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr van rompuy, if we are to celebrate the funeral of the eurozone, we must admit that you, like our president monti, have the look and the physique of the role. this agreement sounds strange, it was intended to send a message of reassurance, but this debate shows that it is based on weak foundations, perhaps on nothing. for italy, unless the ecb fully supports the esm's life-saving role, which is all to be seen, monti's victory will be exactly like italy's football victory against germany, a pyrrhic victory. from this danger of a future debacle, it is perhaps the madonna of fatima who can save us, not your indecision, your uncertainty, your smoking in your eyes. is it true or not what has come out of the corridors of your summit, namely the fear of the heads of state and government of a gigantic crack in the banking sector which has in its belly billions of derivatives allowed by your distractions, by tax havens, by everything that has been allowed to happen, so why do you not speak to us clearly about this core of the problem, not the government bonds, but the great banking and financial crack of derivatives, of financial speculation, which a certain financial world that rules in europe and unfortunately also today in my country has allowed to happen? shame on you!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, i must also tell you that yesterday and the day before yesterday, when i read the newspapers, both in my own country and in other countries, i had a somewhat different impression of the conclusions of the summit. this morning, more than president barroso, you have destroyed those hopes and made a solution problematic which had been presented in the newspapers and in so many communiqués as a turning point, a new direction, a capacity on the part of europe to regenerate and restore concrete confidence. i think that, as mr barroso says, it is quite impossible to establish in the various communiqués and in the final document that monetary stability in a modern economy cannot but be financial stability, which is a very important basic principle. some people said it was a historical phrase, but i think it is a prerequisite for leaving. so if the states' fund gives virtuous countries that can access the fund the opportunity to recapitalise, it is all a prospect, it is all a possibility. the word 'possible' dominates the final document, and i obviously agree with those who give you an exceptional responsibility at this time. in its reply it must explain effectively and decisively whether the member states can really put into practice and be confident that there is not just a generic and abstract reversal of trend that is not good, that is not enough for the markets. everyone, they say, is satisfied because they have to get to the end of the tunnel. i think we are very far from the end of the tunnel, so the concreteness of what had been the previous year of uncertainty in europe, we had imagined that it could be overcome by a concrete and effective decision that the brussels summit had to take. should we be disappointed about that, should we question the fact that it's not true? i would like to ask you, mr president, to avoid all these misunderstandings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we usually focus on the pre-summits when the summits don't matter, and instead we are forced to focus on the post-summit because we have understood that important things have happened. president van rompuy, if you had gone to a national parliament in any european country and made the speech you made here today, i think that all european public opinion would have understood exactly the opposite of what they read in the newspapers three days ago, that you had made europe take a great step forward. i think it is necessary to come here to parliament not only to say what happened at the summit, but what the council wants to do after this summit, and i think that not saying this is to give up telling the european public that we are working for a united europe, that we are working to make a step forward to secure the countries in difficulty. i would also ask you, mr van rompuy, to tell us in your reply exactly what you think of the position of the dutch and finnish governments. you have a duty to say what you think about this, because otherwise we will have understood that the council has issued a communiqué which does not correspond to political will and i think that this needs to be very careful, because i hope that not too many journalists have heard it, because you know how much the communiqué affects the fate of countries and the trend of the spread today.
in writing. finally, after several months of trying to close the gaps in the budgets of many member states caused by the financial crisis, the official talk of growth is returning within the european union. the €120 billion package launched by the european council is not only a victory for the italian government, which has been pushing for it for some time, but also an important step forward for the european economy towards growth and recovery. while we must not forget that of the total 120 billion, only 14.5 billion represents new resources (the rest are reallocation of funds already in the budget), it is important that the european union has once again spoken a language in line with the expectations of european businesses. without underestimating the importance of the measures taken to deal with the financial crisis (such as direct access by banks to the state bailout funds in the anti-spread function), the adoption of the growth package must represent the turning point of european policy, which combines economic rigor with growth prospects.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to draw the attention of the house to two particular points. the text contains two articles, article 2 (2), amendments nos 12, 91, 94, 95 and 99, and article 17 (1), amendments nos 40, 96, 105. it is very important that the vote on these two amendments be against, otherwise the agreement with the council will not be concluded, the recast will not be closed, and above all this parliament will not be able to deal with the fourth railway package. i appeal to the responsibility of the honourable members.
the rapporteur. mr president, can you state clearly which article and which amendments we are voting on? after the first block, the second block and subsequent articles have fallen into disuse, and since you have said that there are only five amendments, that is not understood.
very well, after paragraph two five identical amendments, amendment no 12 by the committee on transport, no 91 by the ppe group, no 94 by the edf group, no 95 by the ecr group and no 99 by the gue/ngl group.
the socialist group had requested a separate vote, but the offices rejected the request as inadmissible. i can't say anything more. i'll stick to what the offices have decided. so i'm voting the amendment not in parts, but in its entirety. the vote will be taken on amendment no 95, which i shall be voting against.
look, mr. speaker, i think we're giving an image of people who are working hard. i think there's no doubt about that. we are doing dozens and dozens of votes, seriously, i voted quickly only because i did an initial check on an amendment with a check and from the check came out a majority, which was then repeated vote by vote. so i didn't do any shallow surgery. i am careful not to neglect or underestimate the work of the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
the amendment is inadmissible, so we shall vote on paragraph 61 without the oral amendment. that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth time that i have had the opportunity to make a statement of vote, which is very rare in these circumstances. the report by mr alfonsi, which was adopted today, is of particular importance for the adriatic in our country. the macro-regional strategy is a strategy which has a significant weight in european planning and has an equally important weight in implementing acts. i believe that regional strategies - including for the sector i am personally concerned with, which is fisheries, which is not given the proper place in this report but is not underestimated - will be extremely important in the reform of fisheries policies in implementing these rules. the mediterranean is also known for its limitations, and the limitations in the management and implementation of certain policies often compromise europe's broad strategies. i think that's all there is to say in this confusion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the macro-region as a mode of cooperation is useful, not least because it strengthens the coherence and coordination of actions, rationalizes the use of financial resources and enhances the role of local authorities, involving civil society in a broad way. here 's an example . the adriatic-ionian macro-region involves eight european and extra-eu countries, has the added value of paying attention to the western balkans and facilitating the entry into the european union of states concerned by the pre-accession procedures, and represents an opportunity to promote the territories and accelerate the european integration process. the european union's recognition of the macro-regional strategy for the adriatic-ionian area is a valuable opportunity for a path of policy sharing and to draw europe's attention to its south-eastern side.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported this report and i congratulate mr alfonsi again because i believe that the macro-regional strategy can create added value for the whole of europe, and that is why it is important to continue along this path, but under certain conditions. macro-regional strategies must be developed around a defined geographical area with homogeneous and specific characteristics. in addition, it is essential that there be functionality and voluntary involvement between the various actors in developing the integration process. in essence, the regional approach must orientate territorial realities towards integration at a higher level, in order to face and overcome the challenges that otherwise, that is, without cooperation, they would not be able to face. as far as the mediterranean is concerned, i think it is important that the report should include a strategy for the western mediterranean and one for the eastern basins, namely the adriatic and ionian seas. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. i therefore believe that the commission and the council must follow up this important report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has so far financed programmes such as med 2007-2013 and the enpi programme for crossborder cooperation in the mediterranean sea basin. i think it is necessary, as we come to the end of the 2007-13 financial programming cycle, to ask the commission to start a thorough reflection on a process of consultation for the definition of future macro-regional strategies. the priority areas and the target of future aid still need to be identified, and this must be done taking into account the need to strengthen existing cooperation, with particular attention to european areas belonging to different member states but sharing the same territory. i supported the proposal of my colleague because i consider the mediterranean area to be a coherent whole, a single cultural and environmental area where we can share common priorities such as agricultural production, renewable energy and tourism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a report on the development of macro-regional strategies is of great importance, because the reference horizon is certainly not only africa, but the continents that all overlook such a crucial area. an area which needs resources, infrastructure, partnership and cooperation, through an integration policy which must be further developed in the light of what has happened in the border area in southern europe, the so-called arab spring with all its undeniable genuine efforts for freedom which have not always resulted in everything we would have wanted. lasting stability also requires greater partnership between young people: erasmus and leonardo da vinci in a euro-mediterranean perspective give these regions an additional opportunity for growth and give many young people the opportunity to develop their work in these territories.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the emergence of the first two macro-regional strategies of the european union in the baltic and danube regions, this development dimension has attracted increasing interest. a macro-regional strategy allows for better cooperation between the various instruments of intervention available to the european union, beyond the appropriations earmarked for cohesion policy. i believe that the mediterranean regions, which share the same natural environment and the same historical and cultural reality, have every interest in cooperating in this direction: the south of europe has great potential which could be exploited to the full with the coordination and overall vision that the definition of a macro-regional strategy fosters, and i am referring in particular to the project of an adriatic-ionian macro-region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean has always played a geopolitical role of the greatest importance in european history. the latest example, the arab spring, has highlighted the strategic potential of the socio-political links between the two shores of the mediterranean. i therefore believe that it is right to support the implementation of a macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean basin, in order to better address common challenges and to promote development and integration among the peoples. while i believe that macro-regional strategies need better alignment of funding and more efficient use of existing resources, it is undeniable that they are a fundamental instrument for european cohesion policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on macro-regional strategies, especially with a mediterranean perspective. the macro-regions have proved themselves, and that is why at a historic moment like this it is necessary to give a great deal of development to the mediterranean as well. the mediterranean can become the place where culture, education, training, tourism, trade, environmental protection, transport and fisheries can become elements for the take-off of this area, precisely at the time of the ensuing arab spring. tourism brings wealth along with trade, education brings democracy and job training, because culture with its artists tells us how we are united, and gives us a perspective of what we could be. the mediterranean is important for all of this, and also and above all for all the other areas of europe and the middle east in general.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we have voted on today proposes the creation of a system of common work and services for the maritime, mountain and lake areas of the mediterranean area, with the involvement of national governments and especially those of the local regions. this project is a revival of the political ideal of a europe of the regions, as originally envisioned by the founding fathers. to emphasize the importance of the macro-regions, i would like to draw your attention to an initiative that was born of the contributions and ideas of representatives of my party, an agreement signed on 29 june last in st. gallen, switzerland: the pact for the creation of the alpine macro-region between france, italy, switzerland, austria and germany. the meeting was attended by the heads of the three regions of northern italy - veneto, lombardy and piedmont. i hope that this initiative will soon be adopted in this house, so that europe can develop towards a genuine europe of the peoples and regions, the only solution to overcome this financial crisis and to make the most of our territories and their exceptional quality products, to relaunch the economy in a concrete way and to apply the principle of subsidiarity to 100%. that is why i voted in favour of the report by mr françois alfonsi.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached with the council has brought about significant improvements, such as the establishment of strong and independent national regulators to guarantee fair and non-discriminatory access to the market, one of the key points of the reform, the minimum duration of contracts between a member state and an infrastructure manager, which will therefore allow better planning of long-term investments, the greatest possible attention to the issue of safety, both in the maintenance of rolling stock, with a clear distinction between light and heavy maintenance, and in the technological adaptation for the safety of infrastructure and trains (think in particular of the ertms mode). in short, the overall result is positive, but a key point for the completion of the single railway market remains open, namely the opening up of national passenger rail traffic. i hope that the commission will keep the commitment it made a few months ago and that a new proposal to this effect will be made by the commission before the end of the year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after long and difficult negotiations, an agreement has been reached which ensures that the european railway infrastructure strikes the right balance between financial transparency and the flexibility needed to ensure adequate investment. in particular, the minimum duration of five years for the contract between a member state and the network operator guarantees those medium and long-term investment plans which are fundamental in the railway sector. i would have thought it useful, however, to include measures relating to the opening up of the national passenger market to complete the european single market and not to penalise companies already operating in open markets.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with mrs serracchiani that we must ensure financial transparency and the separation of the accounts of rail transport companies from those of railway network operators, and then liberalize rail services for a truly open and competitive market with more and better services for the transport of goods and passengers. the railway system is still not up to par with other modes of transport, partly because many states have neglected to finance railways. we consider that road freight transport has increased by up to 45.9%, with an increase in traffic and, of course, also in road accidents. it is true that lorries can cross borders without difficulty, whereas trains encounter technical and legal obstacles that must be removed. in conclusion, fair and non-discriminatory market access should be ensured by planning investments to modernise and create quality infrastructure and services.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a single european railway area represents an important opportunity to support the recovery of the economy and to make the internal market more competitive. the coexistence of different national railway systems hinders this process: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the railway sector's policy on the basis of the results of the european council in copenhagen in june 2014. we need to create transparent rules for access to rail services and to line services such as freight yards, maintenance centres and train composition areas. the commission's proposal is in that direction, and that is why i have given you my support. the council is taking too long to implement this new directive, up to 36 months. i therefore support the rapporteur's call for a 12-month deadline for the transposition of the entire directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the text adopted today provides a good starting point for further negotiations with the council. i am convinced that this innovative tool will contribute to improving road safety, the working conditions of drivers and competition in the sector. i am particularly pleased with the amendment i tabled on behalf of the ppe group on co-responsibility. i believe that all those involved in the transport chain, and not just road haulage companies and their drivers, should be able to be held liable in the event of infringement of the regulation in question. the text also provides for the fitting of smart tachographs on all vehicles, old and new, by 2020. this forecast will certainly involve a major effort for the industry in this sector, but it is equally important to remain ambitious and gradually replace even those carriers using the analogue tachograph with the digital tachograph. a final point of criticism i believe is represented by a definition of 'daily working period'. i think it is not consistent with other definitions given in existing legislation and particularly with regard to periods of rest or break for the driver, which would thus remain part of working time under this definition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the late 1960s, legislation has been introduced in europe to improve the road situation and the working conditions of road hauliers. however, the situation has deteriorated dramatically in recent years, with an increasing number of companies breaking the rules. in particular, failure to respect minimum rest periods and maximum driving times leads to fatigue of drivers and potentially increased risks to road safety. i therefore voted in favour of the text as i believe it will improve the implementation of social standards and ensure fair competition between transport companies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital tachograph, by improving the uniform control of driving and resting times, could play an essential role in ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market in road transport, with great benefits for road safety. recent reports by law enforcement agencies in some member states have shown an increase in fraud involving this device and a change in the current regulation was therefore urgently needed. the commission estimates that the cost increase for the purchase of a new tachograph would be approximately eur 5 per vehicle, a cost which is insignificant in comparison with the potential benefits which could result. i voted in favour of the motion because i believe that the tachograph and satellite tracking devices in cars must be synchronised in order to achieve more efficient and more reliable services. the possibility of transmitting tachograph data also at a distance will also allow for better control and will greatly increase road safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, infringements of intellectual property rights and the worldwide trade in counterfeit goods are a growing concern because of the economic impact on european industry and the risks to the health and safety of consumers. parliament has long been speaking out on the need to regulate the flow of goods from third countries, which without efficient and harmonized customs controls risks being the unintended instrument for the traffic of products harmful to consumers and against the proper competitiveness of the commercial space. i have long been calling for customs systems to be harmonized for a more competitive europe, and this is now at last at the heart of the political debate, along with taxation. we welcome the creutzmann report's attempt to simplify the existing regulatory framework and to make action to combat unfair competition more effective. in the committee on trade we are working on the reform of the customs code to give operators greater certainty about the destination of goods in transit and to act promptly on false declarations of origin, a problem which would have been solved already if the council had adopted the regulation which this parliament adopted in october two years ago.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water is life, water is a common and precious commodity which we have a duty and an interest in preserving and managing in a sustainable way to ensure the preservation of ecosystems and the very survival of man. this important report takes stock of the state of implementation of the european water standard pending the blueprint, the plan for the protection of europe's water resources announced by the commission this autumn. it is 12 years since the water directive came into force, much has been done, but much remains to be done, particularly in many southern european countries such as italy, which will be brought before the court of justice for delays in the implementation of the directive. we must ensure that there is sufficient water and that it is of good quality, given that water resources in europe are unevenly distributed and that we must therefore integrate this issue into all european policies. it is not possible that as much as 70% of the water supplied to the community could have been lost due to leaks due to poor maintenance of water networks. we need to achieve the goal of a green economy and have locally established water plans that seriously combat waste, aim at saving, reusing and recycling water, whether for irrigation, private households and in all the various sectors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water is increasingly being valued as a common good, a precious resource for all mankind. it is therefore essential to develop an integrated and efficient strategy for the wise use of this non-infinite resource. action at eu level must address the current and future water challenges facing our continent, and so the water conservation plan that will be released in november is essential to ensure that we have - as we have heard - sufficient and good quality water for sustainable and equitable use. i think this is an important part of the europe 2020 strategy. water binds to food, water is in food, and a small amount of food contains a huge amount of water, so a water strategy is also a strategy for food security in europe and the world. water can be a source of war, but it can also be a factor in development and peace, and that is why i strongly support the proposal in the report that 1% of water tariffs, for example, should be allocated to decentralized cooperation projects and to projects for world growth. i hope that this legislation, which already exists in some member states, will become, as a good practice that spreads to other countries, legislation in all the member states of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr seeber's work is the european parliament's contribution to the preparation of the plan for the protection of europe's water resources, with which the commission will take stock of what has been achieved as a result of the water framework directive, which has been one of the main pillars of european water policies since 2000. the report for which we voted in favour highlights the challenges to be faced, the gaps to be filled, especially in relation to the objective of sustainability in terms of good ecological, chemical and quantitative status, which, according to the same framework directive, should be achieved by 2015. the measures suggested include the inclusion of water-related issues in all eu policy areas, the development of a holistic approach that considers all water uses and their implications, the promotion and advocacy of efficiency and sustainability in the management of this fundamental resource, and the achievement of water security, not only at regional but also at international level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water is central to ecosystems and the climate, and it is a determining factor in the growth and development of many economic sectors. today we are witnessing an imbalance in ecosystems due to indiscriminate water use, with water use sometimes exceeding 40%, resulting in high water stress. i agree with mr seeber: the commission is also proposing to create a european water framework that supports the green economy, including the polluter pays principle, with transparent and efficient charging systems, and then incentives and investments for the use of treated waste water, grey water, storm water, and the implementation of a quality control system on the status of the european water network, to prevent about 70% of the water supplied to european cities from being lost to leaks in the network.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, water is a vital public good which must be protected by a holistic approach to its protection and rationalisation. improving efficiency and sustainability is a duty we cannot shirk, even in the face of the challenges of climate change. the objective we have set for 2015 of achieving good ecological and chemical status of water is the sine qua non of european environmental policy and a commitment to be rigorously monitored. the european union's water legislation must be respected and more stringent sanctions introduced. in europe, about 20% of water is lost due to outdated infrastructure, which must be improved if we are to use water resources efficiently and manage water sustainably, in order to tackle water scarcity and drought.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the health and safety of the citizens of europe is one of the main objectives of our action and our work. i think that the measure we voted this morning is very important, of course, ecall does not anticipate accidents, it does not reduce them, but it provides much faster intervention procedures which can, through their application, ensure an appropriate intervention to help the suffering of those involved or even save their lives, and all this is very important. the real and consistent application of this instrument by all actors, states, companies and then the operators, will now be decisive, but i believe that the transition from a voluntary experimental phase, such as the one we are now going through, to this new mandatory standard is a very important one. we have put in place a measure that can help many people to avoid suffering and many more to save their lives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, already in 2002 road safety experts considered a pan-european ecall service to be implemented in all vehicles to be one of their priorities, partly because after an accident the people involved may be in a state of shock, not knowing their position, or simply unable to communicate with them. especially in accidents, rapid first aid is vital to saving lives. the ecall system based on the 112 call platform reduces the time it takes to respond to an accident, saving approximately 2 500 lives a year and reducing the severity of injuries by up to 15%. ecall can reduce the response time of emergency services by about 50% in rural areas and up to 40% in urban areas, and can also help reduce traffic jams that can form following road accidents by up to 20%.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bowles report as it seeks to amend directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) as regards the latest implementation date, postponed from 31 october 2012 to 30 june 2013, in order to avoid a legal vacuum.
in writing. − this directive establishes a new and modern solvency regime for insurers and reinsurers in the european union. it provides for a risk-based economic approach that provides insurance and reinsurance undertakings with incentives to measure and manage risks appropriately. these new rules are essential to ensure that the insurance sector is safe and sound. the proposed amendment to directive 2009/138/ec ensures an orderly transition to the new regime. in view of the imminent expiry of the previous regime and the need to avoid a legal vacuum, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i support the ponga report which calls for the transfer of the status of the island of saint-barthélemy from outermost to overseas territory; the european council has already unanimously voted on this change in status and it will benefit this territory by allowing it to strengthen its links with the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the caribbean outermost regions.
in writing. - the french caribbean territory of saint-barthélemy will be included in the overseas territories and countries with clear structural and economic advantages for the territory covered by the report. a greater degree of political and institutional connection, such as that guaranteed by the status of an overseas territory, allows greater attention to be devoted to the needs of saint-barthelemy, at all levels of the local economy and representation.
in writing. − by letter dated 30 june 2010, the french republic asked the european council to adopt such a decision as regards the island of saint-barthélemy, in order to change its status from that of an outermost region to that of an overseas country and territory associated with the european union. in order to give effect to that decision, it is therefore proposed to amend annex ia to council decision 2001/822/ec in order to introduce a new indent adding the island of saint-barthélemy to the list of overseas countries and territories. in order to strengthen relations with the overseas territories and thus help to spread european values, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − by adopting the status of overseas country and territory, the territory of saint-barthélemy is establishing a new and lasting reciprocal partnership with the european union, a choice which will allow it to meet its specific needs in full respect of international law.
in writing. − by decision 2010/718/eu of 29 october 2010, the european council adopted the change of status of the french collectivity of saint-barthélemy from outermost region to an overseas country and territory associated with the european community. that decision shall take effect when the council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, has amended its decision on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union, in accordance with article 203 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the council agreed to amend annex ia to decision 2001/822/ec with a view to introducing saint-barthélemy as the 26th overseas country and territory associated with the european union, thus enabling the island to strengthen its relations with the other overseas countries and contributing to a better dissemination of european values and trade.
in writing. the european union is also supporting the efforts of the united nations to establish a global network of peacekeepers and to promote the peaceful use of the seas. however, the euro will remain the official currency and its inhabitants will continue to be considered europeans. the adoption of the new status will bring mainly economic and political benefits, allowing the island of saint-barthélemy to strengthen its relations with the other overseas territories, the acp countries and the outermost regions of the caribbean, thus contributing to a better dissemination of the european model and values.
in writing. − regional macro-strategies bring together a coherent approach to territorial cooperation, meeting the demand for investment in europe on a territorial basis in a new way. they help rebuild connections and cooperation. the report supports regional macro-strategies based on the principle of multi-level governance, in order to ensure collaboration between local, regional and national authorities. it called for a greater level of coordination between the different funds and asked the commission to consider the future of a macro-regional approach in europe, identifying the priority areas to be involved in the new strategies, especially when there is a lack of cooperation between neighbouring territories, which is evident in several member states. in this connection, i welcome the implementation of a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean basin.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution to sustain the great opportunity represented by the eu macro-regional strategies. first of all, macro-regional strategies frame the eu’s neighbourhood policies in a way that encourages renewed dialogue and new prospects for territorial cooperation projects supported by cohesion policy. the baltic sea strategy is a perfect example of that. when it comes to the mediterranean, we must consider that the entire basin shares the same natural environment, and its shores are connected by the same history and culture. in terms of developing potential, maritime traffic must be placed at the heart of a transport strategy for the whole area, particularly for goods. a macro-regional strategy can provide tailored responses to these objectives. the mediterranean, due to its 500 million inhabitants (less than one-third of whom live within the european union), represents the main ‘neighbourhood prospect’ for europe. for this reason i believe that a development dynamic based around the mediterranean could drive forward the whole european economy.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr alfonsi, which, while acknowledging and emphasizing the undeniable existence of a historical and cultural system which unites the mediterranean countries, aims to establish a common political and service infrastructure divided into macro-regions (western mediterranean, central mediterranean, eastern mediterranean), which would allow the creation of a synergy capable of giving a new and stronger input to coordination between member states and a more effective distribution and re-investment of resources.
in writing. the mediterranean basin shares the same natural environment and the same historical and cultural reality. the south of europe is rich in great potential, which cannot be exploited without coordination or vision. the 'mediterranean climate' gives rise to similar ecotypes: the products of the earth are alike and in their variety they constitute a single range of products. at the same time, environmental problems are the same everywhere. the mediterranean is therefore particularly rich in biodiversity, but it is also under threat. appropriate and synergistic responses are needed. within the eu, the mediterranean area is too weakly structured and there are poor results in terms of cooperation and interconnection. moreover, on the eu's doorstep, the people of the mediterranean - despite the developments of the last year - still have inadequate living standards. the development of these societies is a necessity for them and an opportunity for europe. the latter would gain greater security, more 'sustainable' control of immigration flows and direct participation in a growing area, with positive effects on its economic performance. for this and many other reasons, it is important to support the creation of a mediterranean macro-region.
in writing. the macro-regions meet the criteria of simplification and coordination which have always inspired the european union's regional policy. the macro-region is the ideal institutional framework for member states, regions and local authorities to interact, in order to solve common problems and implement shared policies. it is important that a similar opportunity be given to those operating in the mediterranean basin, whose tourist, commercial and economic importance is obvious to all. unfortunately, the mediterranean area is not structured to the same extent as the european union, and as a result, there is little progress in terms of cooperation and interconnection. the division of the mediterranean into three large macro-regions (western, adriatic-ionian and eastern) would not only increase the coherence and effectiveness of mediterranean policies, but would also promote greater coordination between the different instruments of intervention available to the eu. the creation of a mediterranean macro-region therefore represents an opportunity for the whole mediterranean area to undertake coordinated policies in the interests of development and growth: it would be a mistake for the european union not to grant it.
in writing. − the case-law of the eu's macro-regional strategies has produced positive results in the baltic region and is undoubtedly one of the best european practices in the field of interinstitutional cooperation. the alfonsi report, for which i voted in favour, aims to develop this strategy and to implement it in those territories where cooperation has shown signs of giving way. the application of the macro-regional strategy to the mediterranean basin is certainly useful in bridging the communication gap at the different institutional levels and is aimed at ensuring a better participation process in order to increase the development of the territory it targets. it is therefore necessary to work towards making these strategies increasingly effective and efficient in their programmatic implementation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report not so much because of the important dimension of the mediterranean sea as because of the concept behind it, namely the overcoming of the now anachronistic division of the sea between the member states. the reality clearly shows that there are areas and peoples that have many similarities in common, although they are part of different countries: the baltic experience is emblematic of what can be a useful process of european integration which starts from below, a process which is born of sharing common interests and feelings, and is not imposed from above, as has unfortunately happened too many times in recent european history. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european network of national airports is a good one. on 29 june, the presidents of the alpine regions of italy, switzerland, france, germany and austria met in st gallen to lay the foundations for what could be the future alpine macro-region, in which the peoples of europe, too often marginalised in the european decision-making process, should once again play a leading role.
in writing. − the macro-regional strategies open up new perspectives for territorial cooperation projects, supporting the trans-european transport networks and the integrated maritime policy, and providing a framework for cohesion policies. this can affect the priorities of each regional development plan and allow for greater participation and better cooperation between the different instruments of intervention available to the european union. macro-regional strategies allow for the convergence of the resources of the regions and the different member states through multi-level governance, the only instrument capable of ensuring the complementarity of european policies for regional development.
in writing. − the macro-regional strategy for the baltic sea was adopted in 2009 with clear commission interest as this new mode of cooperation is intended to open up an innovative field for cohesion policy in europe, aiming at development on a territorial basis. this strategy aims to bridge the gaps created by historical frontiers, thereby promoting the integration of the new member states and their regions. this macro-regional approach would make it possible to define an overall plan for cooperation within the union, thus overcoming the current crisis and providing concrete responses to neighbouring countries, especially in the southern mediterranean, and i therefore support the importance of territorial cooperation projects, since this would strengthen synergies with the union's major strategies such as the transeuropean transport networks and the integrated maritime policy.
in writing. − as rapporteur for the alde group, i have actively participated in the elaboration of the macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean, considering it as an instrument of territorial cooperation which will lead to better synergy between the different instruments of intervention through multi-level governance. the mediterranean strategy can be based on the need to develop an integrated maritime transport system covering the whole mediterranean basin and the development of renewable energies. a key aspect of my work on the dossier is to raise the issue of islands at european level and to urge the eu institutions to adopt, in implementation of article 174 of the tfeu, an ad hoc strategy which takes account of the disadvantages of islands. the commission is also expected to adopt, in cooperation with the future cypriot eu presidency, a strategic plan for the islands which will ensure the conditions for economic growth in these territories while ensuring their full territorial continuity. of particular significance is the request to the commission for measures, such as raising the de minimis threshold for aid to islands in the transport, agriculture and fisheries sectors, which allow them to be fairly competitive with the mainland.
in writing. − the proximity of the various national rail systems means that the sector is hampered by geographical boundaries which significantly limit both the development of the sector and the competitiveness of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport. in the light of these considerations, i believe that the creation of a single european railway area should be one of the main priorities for the european union. in order to facilitate the construction of a single european railway area and to create fair conditions of competition between large and small railway undertakings, i believe that the existence of regulatory authorities which are independent of each other is essential. in the long term, national regulatory bodies must also strive to become reliable and timely decision-makers. i agree with the rapporteur that in the long term it is appropriate to establish a european regulatory body to enable efficient control of crossborder transport. finally, i welcome the european parliament's achievement in making changes to the original text of the proposal to increase the transparency of financial flows, in particular in the integrated undertakings providing rail transport services and infrastructure management.
in writing. − during last month's plenary session, the issue of strengthening the single market was widely debated and the house agreed on the need to extend and implement the functioning of the internal market through the rapid transposition and full transposition of european legislation by the member states. in line with this objective, we discussed yesterday the recommendation for the second reading of the report on the single european railway area, but i believe that this represents only a small step towards the creation of a genuine european railway market. for too many years we have heard about the potential positive impact that the full realisation of the single market could have on the union's economy, but then we all go around backing positions of national advantage whenever we have the chance to make sectoral reforms for its full realisation. without going into the details of the individual measures, i would remind you that we are continuing to delay the recasting pending a commission position which can really lead to full liberalisation of the market, which would be impossible today, regardless of the fact that we have given ourselves 30 months to transpose the legislation. we cannot afford to wait until the internal market has brought us out of the crisis.
in writing. the full development of the european railway sector is a key step towards the full establishment of a common market at continental level. the greatest possible freedom of movement and the possibility of unhindered movement of goods can make the difference between a functioning and expanding economic system and a shaky and disintegrating one. at the same time, this development process must be guided by the same principles as the common market, namely free competition and transparency. in this sense, the measures adopted are in the right direction because they aim to stimulate the supply of transport services, both for goods and passengers, and to ensure fair competition. the establishment of strong and independent national regulators, coordinated by the european commission to facilitate mutual cooperation, is the best system to ensure the correct application of the rules, while the obligation to draw up separate and transparent accounts by railway undertakings and infrastructure managers should prevent any illegal transfer of public funds between these two entities. at the same time, competition should be stimulated by the separation of the accounts between the operator and the undertaking, so as to ensure the necessary balance between transparency and flexibility to ensure adequate investment.
in writing. − the creation of a single european railway area must remain our main objective, because the interconnection of the various national railway systems means that the sector is hampered by geographical boundaries which severely limit both the development of the sector and the competitiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport. we believe that the existence of independent regulatory authorities is essential to create a level playing field between large and small railway undertakings. we must continue our efforts to ensure a more stable financing situation for rail infrastructure and to increase the transparency of financial flows, particularly in the integrated undertakings providing rail transport services and managing the infrastructure. we therefore insist on the need to introduce a mandatory mechanism to limit the noise emissions of trains. trains with high noise emission levels have negative effects on people's health and their acceptance of rail transport and end up jeopardising the development of the sector. the strengthening of the role and competences of the infrastructure manager is another key objective for network management more geared to free competition in the sector.
in writing. the european parliament is putting forward ambitious proposals for the creation of a single european railway area. the creation of this area must remain our objective, since the interconnection of the various national railway systems means that the sector is hampered by geographical boundaries which severely limit both the development of the sector and the competitiveness of rail transport compared with other modes of transport. parliament must continue its efforts to ensure that rail infrastructure is in a more stable financial position and that financial flows are made more transparent. in order to strengthen common infrastructure charges and standards and to promote access to rail services, although the final text is the result of some compromises, and convinced of the possibility of improving certain points, i believe that it is appropriate to vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − to facilitate better use of the eu's rail networks, we have clarified the rules on competition between railway undertakings and infrastructure managers with today's vote. the rules adopted are intended to stimulate the supply of international freight and passenger transport services and to improve their quality. independent regulatory authorities will ensure fair competition. in future, separate and transparent accounts by railway undertakings and infrastructure managers should prevent any illegal transfer of public funds between these two entities, even if they belong to the same holding company. the costs of railway concessioning will include bonus/malus incentives to reduce noise pollution and to equip trains with a european traffic control system (etcs) for maximum safety.
in writing. the aim of this vote is to facilitate better use of the european rail networks through clearer rules on competition between railway undertakings and infrastructure managers. the provision of international rail freight and passenger services needs to be stimulated immediately and their quality improved. for this reason, the cost of railway concessions will include incentives for the installation of noise abatement technologies and the installation of a european control system for maximum safety on trains.
in writing. − in the process of european integration, the creation of a single railway area plays a key role. it is sufficient to recall that one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the european union is founded is that of the free movement of persons throughout the community. that is why i strongly supported the recommendation of mrs serracchiani. there are two aspects of this report which i should like to stress. the first concerns the creation of a network of national regulators, totally independent and with more powers, coordinated by the commission, with the possibility, in the future, of seeing the figure of the single european regulator emerge. the second concerns the change from three to five years of the contract between a member state and an infrastructure manager. this change will allow for greater medium- and long-term guarantees on investment plans. a single railway area will allow for non-discriminatory market access and will make our rail network more competitive, stronger and healthier.
in writing. − quality, reliable, safe and efficient rail transport services can only be guaranteed through a common policy to facilitate the sustainable development of the european economy. the european parliament adopted its position on this subject at first reading on 11 november 2011. subsequently, the council reached a political agreement and a position at first reading on 8 march 2012 by qualified majority. since january 2012, the parliament, the council and the commission have been holding informal negotiations aimed at preparing an agreement at second reading. the council's request for the entry into force of this new directive, which amounts to 36 months and 60 months for the establishment of the regulatory body, is too long for such an urgent plan to be implemented, and i therefore support the request for the reduction of the transposition period from 36 months to 12 months.
in writing. − since 1969, the european union has had legislation in the field of road transport to improve road safety, the working conditions of drivers and to ensure fair competition between transport companies. according to the data provided by the commission, on average 9% of the vehicles inspected are in breach of social standards and about a quarter of these are in breach of tachograph standards. in the light of these data, the commission has put forward a proposal for a revision of the tachograph regulation which aims to improve the implementation of social standards and to reduce administrative burdens by taking advantage of new technologies by introducing a number of new regulatory measures such as those which will extend the functionalities of the digital tachograph, with the advent of a new type of tachograph called the smart tachograph. i welcome the proposal, i agree with the highlights and i support the introduction of the smart tachograph because i believe it will help to improve the implementation of the legislation and will be a tool to reduce the administrative burden of the tachograph obligations for the companies that are in compliance. in addition, a harmonised interface with its applications should help facilitate the integration of the various systems and avoid the multiplication of independent devices on board vehicles.
in writing. - i strongly disagreed with the report by mrs ţicău on the proposal to amend the current regulation (eec) no 3821/85 on recording equipment in road transport (tachograph) and to amend regulation (ec) no 561/2006 of the european parliament and of the council. first, i believe that the nature of the tachograph deviates from/does not relate to/does not fall within the definition of what is 'working time': i note that my proposal to use the term 'control' instead of 'work' was not considered/evaluated by my colleague. this can have a negative impact on the autonomy of each company in managing the working hours of employees. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the 'smart tachograph' in all vehicles by 2020 in the name of greater safety, without any preliminary study to confirm its usefulness and which, according to the road transport sector, would have been approved to promote the lobbies that produce this equipment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text proposed by the rapporteur, because i think she has done a very good job in concert with the commission and the shadow rapporteurs, completing a complex intervention in a particularly problematic area. the new digital tachograph will have a direct impact on the current situation of measurement of driving data, speed and rest periods for drivers, and will affect the method of control and the related compliance with the regulations in force. i am particularly in favour of the timetable for the introduction of the digital tachograph, which provides for an adaptation period until 2020, the latest date by which all member states will have to adapt by adopting this new measuring instrument. on the contrary, i do not feel that i support the possibility of derogating from these rules, since this would allow for a fragmentation of the market which would create competitive disadvantages for producers and especially for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. − the adoption of this regulation is a clear positive sign for the safety of millions of european workers and citizens who travel on europe's roads every day. thanks to the efforts of the european parliament, important changes have been introduced to meet the needs expressed on several occasions by trade unions, workers and many small businesses: the introduction of tachographs for all lorries over 2.8 tonnes and the introduction of weight sensors are two clear examples of the good work done in the committee and then in the house in recent months. all too often, market requirements and strong competition between operators are imposed on the working conditions and health of road hauliers, creating serious risks also for the safety of millions of european citizens who travel on the roads and motorways of the union. the balance achieved in this regulation between the needs of security and control and the flexibility to be granted to the selfemployed and to small businesses is a good result and has therefore received wide support from a large part of parliament.
in writing. - according to the data provided by the commission, on average 9% of the vehicles inspected are in breach of social standards, in particular about a quarter of them are in breach of tachograph standards. on average, at any given time, some 45 000 vehicles are found to be in breach of eu tachograph rules. failure to respect minimum rest periods and maximum driving times can lead to fatigue of drivers with potential risks to road safety. i thank the rapporteur for her work on this proposal for a regulation and i vote in favour of improving road safety and the working conditions of drivers.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs ţicău on her work. in adopting this text, parliament, having regard to the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council and the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 7 december 2011, wants to ensure that the efficiency of tachographs is extended by means of a global navigation satellite system (gnss) recording the start and end of a route. the commission is proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the wireless data transmission capability will also allow authorities to follow vehicles without stopping them and to focus on suspicious vehicles that will be subject to specific and thorough checks. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. - every day, some 45 000 vehicles across europe travel with an illegally modified tachograph. today's vote calls for a revision of the current regulation to provide a screw-in for all fraud attempts, reducing the administrative burden thanks to the latest available technology. the new digital tachographs will be easier to use and with their new functionalities will make it easier for drivers to work and promote the efficiency of european transport.
in writing. − the road is now the main mode of transport within the european union, both for passengers and for goods. road freight accounts for more than two thirds of the total tonnage. that is why i have decided to vote in favour of and support mrs tichaux's report, which seeks to amend the regulation on the monitoring equipment in the road transport sector. the tachograph has a real impact on the daily lives of drivers, so it is essential to make it more efficient in order to improve road safety, drivers' working conditions and ensure fair competition between transport undertakings. improving safety on europe's roads is an obligation from which the european union cannot escape. the introduction of legal obligations for tachograph manufacturers, authorities, transport operators and drivers, contained in the report, is precisely in this direction. these aspects, together with the introduction of the latest technologies, make this report an excellent starting point for raising the level of safety on our roads.
in writing. − directive 2006/22/ec, which lays down minimum standards for checks by member states on the roads and at the premises of undertakings, and regulation (eec) no 3821/85, hereinafter referred to as the 'tachograph regulation', are the two main pillars of the overall strategy for the inspection and enforcement of the union's social legislation in road transport. in july 2011, the european commission presented a proposal to revise the 1985 tachograph regulation. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to amend the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and called for the commission to take account of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of carcinogens.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr creutzmann, because i am in favour of the strengthening of the regulation on the protection of intellectual property rights by the customs authorities to ensure the health and safety of consumers, who would be further protected from the danger of buying counterfeit goods. these, with the development of e-commerce, are in fact constantly increasing thanks to the use of small shipments. tightening the rules on intellectual property rights would provide the necessary discipline for european companies to organise their production in line with the wto rules on the safe transit of goods, to which the eu refers.
in writing. − the trade in counterfeit goods, in violation of intellectual property rights, causes damage to european companies of around eur 250 billion. it is therefore necessary to strengthen the controls by the customs authorities on the nature of goods transiting the european union to protect both consumers and producers. counterfeit goods undermine consumers' health and their purchasing power. a stronger discipline in this area is in the direction of policies to improve our commercial potential and the quality of our products. however, i feel compelled to share a thought with you. i believe that the necessary introduction of a strengthened control system should not, however, constitute a bureaucratic obstacle which, paradoxically, would affect the competitiveness and timeliness of our traders in another way.
in writing. - in a globalised economy, intellectual property has become an essential element of european competitiveness. the proposal for a regulation lays down the procedures by which customs authorities may prevent the movement of goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights. in the interests of extending the scope of application to all types of infringement of intellectual property rights covered by substantive eu legislation and in order to strengthen the protection of ipr by customs authorities and to increase legal certainty by adapting the provisions of the regulation to new developments, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the number of counterfeiting and piracy cases in europe almost doubled between 2009 and 2010, so urgent action is needed to curb the phenomenon by improving the intellectual property rights protection tools available to customs authorities. the increase in international trade in counterfeit goods is undermining economic growth and jobs in the european union, with piracy and counterfeiting alone costing european businesses some eur 250 billion each year.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr creutzmann. i believe that the customs control system must be equipped with rules which are up to date with the times and with the new problems. the fight against counterfeiting is a matter of great importance for the protection and promotion of work, creativity and consumer protection in europe. i found the many amendments proposed by the left to relax the rigidity necessary for a customs system to protect our economy very negative.
in writing. − the security of european citizens is one of the european union's main concerns. in addition to the negative effects on the european economy, counterfeiting and piracy represent an annual cost to european businesses of close to eur 250 billion, and affect and undermine the health and safety of the inhabitants of the 27 member states. i voted in favour of mr creutzmann's report because it deals with such a relevant subject in a precise and clear way, and it seeks to simplify the existing regulatory framework in order to make the measures to combat counterfeiting more effective and more stringent. consumer protection, facilitating the work of customs authorities, defending intellectual property rights and combating fraud are the cornerstones on which european policy in this field must be based. the protection of the health and safety of european citizens and the community economy can only be achieved by strong and decisive protection of intellectual property rights, and this report is an important step towards achieving this objective.
in writing. - intellectual property is an essential element of european competitiveness. the infringement of intellectual property rights and the resulting worldwide trade in counterfeit goods is a growing concern. the role of customs authorities at borders is crucial in combating counterfeiting and the illegal entry of goods into the european union, while ensuring the competitiveness of the european trading area. since customs formalities have a direct impact on international trade, it is extremely important that control measures do not hinder legal trade, and i therefore support the call for rules to simplify trade and for greater safeguards against abuse and legal certainty in this area, also in view of the community's commitment to consumer protection.
in writing. - the report by mr creutzmann concerns the conditions and procedures for the intervention of customs authorities when goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights (especially pirated or counterfeit goods) arrive in the territory of the european union. i particularly agree with the need to require greater guarantees as to the destination of goods in transit. while i share the efforts to simplify the existing regulatory framework and to combat counterfeiting more effectively, i also hope that excessive attention to the protection of intellectual property rights will not lead to unnecessary delays in the release of goods under normal conditions.
in writing. − i voted for this report as it is a good analysis of the eu water legislation implementation across member states. it also identifies important policy gaps that will need to be bridged. the europe 2020 strategy stipulates a more efficient use of resources but the current trends in water use are often unsustainable due to bad practices. an equitable water management plays a vital role in the preservation of the world’s natural capital and ecosystem services. for this reason decisive action at eu level is needed to address current and future water challenges faced by our continent. in particular the commission should incorporate the policy recommendations contained in this report into the formulation of the ‘blueprint to safeguard europe’s water resources’ as an important contribution towards a more effective and better integrated water policy.
in writing. − water is the most important public good for human life. however, european and global freshwater resources are at risk: urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, and hydromorphological changes are all contributing to increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe water. although the current water legislation provides a solid framework for effective water management, implementation times in the member states have been slow and results have varied widely from region to region. in this context, i believe that parliament must make an active contribution to the process which will lead to the determination of the future direction of european water policies. at european level, decisive action is needed to address the current and future water challenges facing our continent. i therefore call on the commission to make available adequate financial resources for research projects on stormwater systems, measurement technologies, methods for monitoring and removing sources of pollution and chemical and biological pollutants, and technologies for water saving and water efficiency in urban and rural areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr seeber's report because i agree with the primary importance of the regional dimension of water resources, which is very uneven across the various regions of europe. local communities must become active participants in the design and implementation of water policies. for effective cost recovery and waste monitoring, transparent charging systems must be introduced and the reuse of water for agricultural and domestic purposes must be targeted. good water management is based on the collection of reliable data not only on the quality but also on the quantity of water available. this is made possible by integrating water objectives into all legislative levels at community and local level. environmentally friendly measurement and design will help to ensure the efficiency of public, industrial and overall water-based ecosystem services.
in writing. water is undoubtedly the most important public good for all mankind. however, european and global freshwater resources are at risk from management beyond the limits of sustainability. the water framework directive (wfd) adopted in 2000 can be considered a milestone in european water policies, but implementation times in different countries and regions of europe have been slow and results have been very diverse. we therefore support the european commission's new blueprint, which is intended to be the eu's policy response to current and future water challenges, with the aim of ensuring sufficient quantities of good quality water for sustainable and equitable water use. we believe that the european parliament must make a fundamental contribution to the process which will lead to the determination of the future direction of european water policies through the plan. the most effective way of continuing along this path is certainly to concentrate on implementing the measures; the regional and local dimensions must be strengthened, and local actors and communities must be involved in the participation process at all stages of policy formulation and implementation.
in writing. − water is a precious and unique resource, indispensable for the very existence of life: it is therefore clear that we should also have a global european approach to the protection and defence of this asset. firstly, in the knowledge that this is a scarce resource, efforts must be made to optimise its use and to limit waste: it is not acceptable that an outdated transport and distribution system, for example, leads to the waste of enormous quantities of water. in tuscany this spring there was a severe drought: this is a phenomenon which has unfortunately occurred many times in recent years, caused primarily by poor management of the water network. the report also stresses the importance of reusing and recycling water and the need for pollution not to compromise the quality of water and thus the whole ecosystem. unfortunately, there are still many cases of negligence and recklessness today, which risk leading to the destruction of entire natural areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. − considering the current state of implementation of eu water legislation in all member states, taking into account both successes and the main challenges to be overcome to improve it, important gaps emerge which will need to be filled by the new legislation. urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological changes and climate change are all contributing to increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe water. in this context, it is important to support the roadmap towards a resource-efficient europe under the europe 2020 strategy. in order to ensure sufficient quantities of good quality water for sustainable and equitable water use, i am voting in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'water' in the definition of the term 'water'. urbanization, population growth, consumption, pollution and climate change are contributing to pressures on the availability and quality of safe water. the european water framework directive (wfd) adopted in 2000 sets a sustainability target in terms of ecological, chemical and quantitative 'good status' to be achieved by 2015 for all european water bodies. but the implementation times of eqf in the different european countries have been slow and it is clear that a large number of eu water bodies will not reach 'good status' by 2015. so decisive action at eu level is needed to tackle the water challenges facing our continent. in this context, the commission has launched a 'plan for the safeguarding of europe's water resources' to be published in november 2012 with the aim of ensuring a sufficient supply of good quality water for sustainable and equitable water use. the rapporteur welcomes the commission's initiative and believes that the european parliament should make a fundamental contribution to this process through water conservation policies, which can be implemented by the member states.
in writing. − water resources in europe are very unevenly distributed between the member states, many of which are particularly hard hit by water stress during the summer season. water is a commodity essential for life and to ensure that all ecosystems receive it in good quality and in the right quantity, it is essential to create a sustainable management of it. it is necessary that individual local actors are involved in water management decision-making processes so that solutions can reflect the specific needs of each individual community.
in writing. − water is a particularly vulnerable element to the effects of climate change, which could lead to a reduction in the quantity and quality of available water, particularly drinking water, as well as an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and droughts. european and global freshwater resources are at risk if we manage them beyond the limits of sustainability: urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological changes and climate change are all contributing to increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe water. it is therefore necessary to recognise that water is a common resource of humanity and a public good and that access to water should be a fundamental and universal right. this vote encourages the sustainable use of water, which is a necessity for the environment and for health. it is therefore necessary to adapt the rules of the internal market to the distinctive characteristics of the water sector.
in writing. water is perhaps the most important public good, since it is essential for life. it is therefore essential to ensure that all ecosystems receive water of sufficient quality to provide services essential for food security and the health of european citizens. unfortunately, urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, and biological and chemical pollution have led to increasing problems with the availability of safe groundwater. i therefore believe that we must step up all the measures needed to ensure sustainable and effective management of water.
in writing. − private emergency call services on board vehicles were introduced in europe in the late 1990s. despite the fact that these services have been widely demonstrated to be useful, their use in europe is less than 0.4% of the vehicle fleet. in addition, private emergency services do not cover all european countries: where the vehicles travel to countries where the private provider is not expected to provide the service, the service is interrupted. in this context, the commission has decided to take legislative action for the mandatory introduction of ecall. the benefits of introducing such devices for citizens are clear: reducing the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries resulting from road traffic accidents by means of a more rapid intervention by the emergency services at the scene of the accident, reducing the time taken to respond, which will allow the scene of the accident to be cleared more quickly, mitigating the impact on traffic and reducing the risk of further accidents at the scene. i welcome the introduction of ecall, but on the condition that any additional in-vehicle applications based on the ecall telematics platform comply with data protection and privacy regulations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr koch and mrs sehnalová in support of the commission's legislative action to introduce the ecall device on all eu-approved vehicles from 2015. this device automatically sends a european-wide distress call in the event of an accident and if the driver is unable to do so. i agree with the report that ecall will make it possible to reduce the number of road accident victims considerably. i also agree with the commission's extensive argument that the reasons for its introduction put forward by the united kingdom, france and poland are unfounded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected.
in writing. − the adoption of the report on the adoption of the ecall system is a clear signal of the european parliament's support for road safety. in europe, more than 40,000 people die each year in road accidents. the european commission has launched a new initiative to combat the spread of the virus, which is being developed by the european union's emergency response team (eratv). it is also important to remember that ecall will have minimal economic impact on final costs, which amount to about 100 euros per car, a price that is absolutely reasonable given the great benefits it will bring. it is now essential that member states and their mobile telephone services commit themselves to improving their infrastructure to ensure the best possible provision of this service. to date, 5 500 drivers have used the service in 10 countries: the positive effects that could be achieved by 2015 with the introduction in all 27 member states would be of vital importance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a report on the mandatory introduction of the ecall 112 emergency call system in new european road vehicles sold from 2014. this new device is an emergency system that automatically transmits an emergency call to the nearest emergency call collection centre at the time of a major accident, signalling vital information such as the time and place of the accident, thus allowing for more rapid response by rescue services. my vote in favour is based on the importance of innovation in having an automatic emergency service which can reduce the risk of death and the severity of injuries, thereby increasing the safety of european citizens on the roads of the union.
in writing. - every year in the european union, approximately 40 000 people die as a result of road accidents, and over 150 000 people suffer permanent disability as a result: these terrible data show us how dire the situation is and how important it is that we find effective remedies to improve it. the report we have adopted today, which i wanted to support, provides for the introduction of an automatic warning system: the ecall system installed in a vehicle that has been involved in an accident will report the incident by means of a coded emergency call to 112, which has now become the single european emergency number, valid in all member states. this will not of course prevent accidents, but it will certainly help to improve the effectiveness of rescue operations, for which rapid and timely action is essential. it is estimated that this system could save 2,500 lives a year: i hope there are many more, but in any case, every person who is saved by this system will be a great success and an important achievement for all.
in writing. − the proposal helps to improve the efficiency of emergency services by creating a voice link to the nearest emergency call collection centre (psap) and sending an emergency message. the commission decided in 2011 to take legislative action for the mandatory introduction of ecall. i hope that the number of road deaths will be reduced by the more rapid intervention of the emergency services at the scene of an accident, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - today, at the plenary session in strasbourg, we voted on the report by mr koch and mrs sehnalova. the european parliament has given its clear support to all motorists in europe to benefit from a free emergency call system. as the voluntary approach has not produced results, the commission is urged to propose legislative measures as soon as possible to ensure that ecall is mandatory in all eu countries by 2015. the resolution calls on the commission to consider extending the system to other vehicles such as motorcycles, buses, coaches and lorries in the near future. this system uses the technology of the 112 emergency call to automatically alert emergency services to the location of the vehicle in the event of a serious accident, saving lives, mitigating the severity of injuries and also ensuring the arrival of qualified and equipped paramedics within one hour of the accident, in accordance with the so-called 'golden hour principle'. the ecall system could save about 2,500 lives a year. it is also considered that the public ecall service should be mandatory and available free of charge to all drivers in europe, regardless of the type of vehicle.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i think it is important that all new vehicles should be equipped with the ecall system by 2015, which will automatically alert emergency services in the event of a road accident via the public emergency call service 112. this would allow for a more timely arrival of emergency services, which could save some 2 500 lives a year, and also significantly reduce the severity of injuries.
in writing. - my vote on this report is clearly in favour. european car manufacturers are ready to take up the challenge of incorporating this type of instrumentation into their vehicles. this could save lives. i would not, however, like the european parliament to go too far, perhaps too quickly proposing the extension of e-call to other categories of vehicles. this would be too costly for manufacturers today and would probably not improve road safety. i am in favour of the common car and hope that these instruments will soon be put on the market.
in writing. − road safety is a subject of enormous importance, especially now that technology and development in the automotive sector are reaching ever higher levels. the eu's job is to adopt rules that allow citizens to travel on safe roads and vehicles. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution by mr koch and mrs sehnalova on the introduction of ecall in all passenger cars by 2015. the introduction of this instrument will bring a number of benefits. in the event of a serious accident, a vehicle equipped with ecall will automatically initiate an emergency call to 112, even if the passenger is unable to speak, providing the emergency services with all the basic information about the accident. the use of this technology will save some 2 500 lives a year and reduce the severity of injuries by 10/15%, all thanks to the faster and more efficient response of rescue vehicles at the scene of an accident.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr sehnalova's report on the introduction of the safety system, the so-called ecall, because i believe it is an excellent tool for preventing road accidents and more. it will also reduce congestion caused by accidents and thus prevent the occurrence of accidents. i regret the delays and lack of progress in the voluntary deployment of ecall and hope that all parties involved will act simultaneously to ensure that this service is established. i also believe that coordinated awareness campaigns on ecall and its benefits for european citizens are needed to increase understanding and demand for the service.
in writing. − as the world bank forecasts that the number of road accident victims is set to rise in every part of the world, it is necessary for the european union to address the problem. in europe, more than 40 000 people are now killed in road accidents every year, and 150 000 are permanently disabled, according to 2004 figures. this vote will promote the spread of ecall: in the event of a serious accident, a vehicle equipped with this device shall automatically initiate an emergency call. even if the passenger is unable to speak, ecall will establish a voice link with the nearest emergency call collection centre and send an emergency message, including key information about the accident, such as the time, the precise location, the driving direction (from precise satellite data) and the description of the vehicle.
in writing. europe is considered to be the largest region for foreign direct investment: a quarter of all world consumption and investment takes place within its borders. however, the weak economic growth in europe in recent years and the considerable accumulation of public debt in the member states raise concerns among investors, which are amplified by global competition, in particular from emerging economies. the attractiveness of investment in europe is defined in two distinct ways: the commission has also been active in the field of innovation policy, with a particular focus on the need to make europe an attractive destination for foreign investors and to make entrepreneurship attractive to local entrepreneurs. reforms are needed to attract investment to europe, both at national and european level, to improve the functioning of the european single market. i therefore share the rapporteur's request that the commission prepare a communication to assess and promote the attractiveness of investment in europe, including policy recommendations to the member states with a view to improving the investment environment in the union. i also believe that the regulatory framework needs to be further improved so that smes can compete fairly in order to make europe an attractive place to invest, work and increase the capacity to generate wealth and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the kratsa-tsagaropoulou report on the attractiveness of investment in europe; it aims to influence existing legislation in order to encourage public and private investment, whether domestic or from third countries, which are currently discouraged mainly by excessive taxation. the aim is to establish a common policy aimed at monetary, commercial and budgetary stability; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. − the european union is the most important area from an economic and productive point of view. however, in recent years, our territory has lost the attractiveness that made it a leading player, also because of the crisis. improving the attractiveness of investment in europe requires policy action on several fronts. we must improve the single market system, make the most of the opportunities offered by cohesion policy, and maximise the benefits of the new instrument of project bonds. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is a step in the right direction.
in writing. − europe has a duty to respond adequately to the challenges of stabilising the international economy, making full use of global opportunities. we must address our weaknesses and build on the strengths of all countries and regions so that they can attract local and international investment that will contribute to our balanced growth and cohesion. the european union is the leading trading power and remains the largest recipient of foreign direct investment. however, we must be able to exploit our competitive advantages in the face of increasing competition from developing countries. this objective must be at the heart of investment reforms and the eu strategy at both european and national level. at the global level, the eu must continue to conclude bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements and to participate actively in global economic governance. attracting investment to europe requires measures and reforms, both at european and national level. ensuring that businesses can compete openly and fairly is key to making europe an attractive place to invest and work. the single market is one of the most significant priorities for developing an easily accessible and stimulating environment for businesses and consumers.
in writing. − the eu is the world's largest trading bloc and foreign trade has played a dynamic role in promoting growth, particularly in the services sector. a quarter of all world consumption and investment is taking place within its expanding borders, although the share is smaller than in the past. nevertheless, europe's weak economic growth, high taxes and considerable public debt build-up raise concerns among investors, which can be amplified by global competition, particularly from emerging economies, and the lack of opportunities to exploit the eu's full potential. the crisis is global and requires an international response, and reforms, both at national and european level, are needed to improve the functioning of the single market and make full use of the structural funds. in order to make the european market more attractive and to provide europe with a coherent political, economic and regulatory framework based on sustainable growth objectives, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it sets out the most correct guidelines for a new common policy which will enable europe to attract investment and capital from the rest of the world. to achieve this, structural reforms are needed at both national and international level, a new regulatory framework that can boost the competitiveness of european businesses through growth and employment, addressing the macroeconomic and social imbalances that still exist between the different areas.
in writing. - high levels of indebtedness in developed countries' markets and the rise in oil prices pose a significant risk for the future. the international economic environment continued to be characterised by uneven performance, weak growth in the most advanced economies and stronger, albeit slower, expansion in emerging markets. structural problems, insufficient overall rebalancing, a persistent development differential, rising unemployment, high public and private debt and uncertainty continue to weigh on the overall growth outlook. despite the decline, volatility in international financial markets remains high and action is needed to further reduce the risks of adverse developments. this vote will seek to encourage and attract investment in europe and this calls for measures and reforms, both at european and national level. ensuring that businesses can compete openly and fairly is key to making europe an attractive place to invest and work.
in writing. − i support this report because it is essential to attract new investors to the eu market and this is only possible through measures such as project bonds and far-reaching reforms such as the cohesion policy we will adopt in 2013. ambitious territorial development policies will enable the eu to maintain high quality human capital, foster an open and fair business environment and invest in research and innovation for successful products and business models to benefit the european economy and society. support for a strong industrial base should be at the heart of reforms, particularly in those sectors where europe is traditionally strong, but also in high-tech sectors where a strong industrial base is key to innovation in products, processes and services and to the creation of new jobs. in a context of economic recovery, ambitious legislation is needed to support smes, through simplification of legislation and increased access to finance, promoting efficient risk capital systems (formal and informal) and strengthening the role of private and public equity investments in financing the long-term growth of enterprises; the commission's proposal is not a new one.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it stresses that the conclusion and the implementation of the associations agreements is a priority of the reviewed european neighbourhood policy regarding the eastern partners. the creation of deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas) is indeed one of the most ambitious tools of eu bilateral trade policy with the aim to achieve a stable economic environment which respects democracy and the rule of law. in addition it is important to underline that prosperity and stability in the eu’s eastern neighbourhood are in the eu’s utmost interest and moreover i believe that stable relations between the eu and its eastern partners will undoubtedly increase trade volumes in both directions.
in writing. - i support the ransdorf report on the eastern partnership which provides a framework for relations between the european union and armenia, georgia, moldova, ukraine, azerbaijan, belarus, the first four already wto members and the last four only observers. the area in question is still socially and politically unstable, but the eu cannot avoid pursuing policies of partnership with it, which is dominated by russian influence and is also extremely rich in energy resources. finally, it is likely that such a european union policy can push these countries towards the institutional reforms and modernization they so desire.
in writing. − trade relations with the eu's eastern partners are an important aspect of our economic policies and should be closely monitored to allow for improvement. in particular, the creation of deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcfta) in the east represents a basket of economic and commercial opportunities with multiple implications for our operators, in particular smes and the tourism sector, provided that reciprocity is respected in important areas, such as compliance with the same safety and control standards. it is clear that the aim of the creation of free trade areas is not only to influence the economic, but also the political and social profile of the countries with which they have trade partnerships. it was clear that a proper industrial development strategy would require cooperation to improve the civil and political characteristics which allow the maximum expression of individual freedom.
in writing. − the creation of deep and comprehensive free trade areas is without doubt one of the most ambitious instruments of the european union's bilateral trade policy, which aims to achieve a stable, transparent and predictable economic environment, while respecting democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law. with this report we want to underline the importance of the global programme for institution building, the instrument for technical assistance and information exchange (taiex) and with the eastern partner countries. in the long run, the benefits of such integration will outweigh the initial efforts: supporting and involving local civil society and international ngos in promoting the long-term benefits that are key to the success of their reform processes. we are in favour of strengthening cooperation between the eu and its eastern partners in a number of areas, in particular industry, smes, research, development and innovation, tourism. the economic integration of the eastern partners with the european union cannot be achieved efficiently without political and social reforms, without the participation of civil society in decision-making and economic integration among the eastern countries themselves.
in writing. − the creation of a comprehensive and deep free trade area with the eu is one of the key incentives for partner countries to pursue their reforms, as it represents one of the most ambitious instruments of the eu's bilateral trade policy to achieve a stable, transparent and predictable economic environment respectful of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law, allowing not only greater economic integration through the progressive dismantling of trade barriers, but also regulatory convergence in areas affecting trade in goods and services, in particular by increasing investment protection, optimising customs and border procedures, reducing technical trade barriers and other non-tariff barriers to trade. given that greater trade integration requires considerable efforts in the short and medium term on the part of our eastern partners, i am in favour of creating the political and regulatory conditions favourable to the development of trade relations with the eastern countries.
in writing. - mr ransdorf's report seems to be balanced. that is why i voted in favour. the european union must become an increasingly privileged partner for this region, especially for the phase, which i hope will come soon, in which certain ethnic and religious tensions in the caucasus region will finally give way to development and prosperity for the people concerned. europe can do a lot in this respect.
in writing. − the conclusion and implementation of association agreements providing for comprehensive and in-depth free trade areas is a priority objective and ambition of the new european neighbourhood policy towards the eastern partners. especially following the revolutionary movements that took place in 2011 in the southern neighbourhood of the european union, known as the arab spring, europe's interest has also focused on its southern neighbours. the vote therefore calls on the commission to take due account of these considerations and recommendations when negotiating and implementing the trade aspects of the association agreements with armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova and ukraine and in the development of trade relations between the european union and belarus. the commission is also asked to keep parliament regularly and in detail informed of the progress of the negotiations.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in november 2010 many of us asked the commission to wait until the treaty was signed and to present an impact study first. the commission decided to sign it immediately, making sure that everything was fine, unless it had to go to court or get a worrying warning from the european union's privacy watchdog. meanwhile, citizens have mobilized in a way that is unprecedented in the european union: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new rules. i think there are two lessons here, and i hope the commission will take them to heart in the next steps announced by the commissioner. the first is that the network is now regarded by european citizens as a genuine common good, like biodiversity, like water, as an area of individual freedom which cannot be threatened by any kind of measure. in washington, senator wyden, chairman of the subcommittee on international trade, whom i visited last february, told us that with acta experiences like wikipedia might not have been possible. i do not know whether that statement is true, but there is also a precautionary principle that we must adopt. secondly, we cannot apply important measures without the consent of the citizens and we need a comparison which has been only patently insufficient so far. i think that this must be understood, and if we do not understand this in europe today, i think we are not going very far. i have known acta since i was elected, i have accompanied this treaty as a shadow rapporteur in a thousand debates in committee, in plenary, i must say always having a very loyal and cooperative attitude on the part of the committee, in interviews, towards civil society, i do not know if this will be the last debate, i must say that we will certainly be ready for other debates i do not really hope, mr commissioner, that it can be said "acta est fabula", the play is over, in the interests of the citizens, in the interests of freedom of expression but i must also say in the interests of the image of the european institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, acta was a very serious political mistake, let alone a legal one, because it provoked a reaction in the world of immense proportions, and that is enough to say that it is a political mistake. why huge? because it created the suspicion that you were actually shutting down the web, which is a great modern revolution. why is that? because he made the mistake of lumping together counterfeiting and piracy, two distinctly different phenomena. the way we fight counterfeiting has nothing to do with copyright. then another mistake, cutting out parliament in an important activity that has been going on for a long time, that of creating a new copyright, a new copyright, this while some would like to preserve the old copyright that existed before the web the point is that we have to work on copyright and put aside acta, which is an obstacle, to fail it, to exclude it, because it is an obstacle to our work. fortunately, after months, years of hesitation, the commission has brought two important measures, orphan works and the next one, on copyright management companies, to the attention of parliament. that's an advantage, we work on this thinking with the brain and not just with the emotions, but without acta in our way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as usual, i fear that someone is wasting time and making fun of citizens, businesses and internet users in europe, in italy and in padania as far as i am concerned. we are talking about an agreement involving a few countries and excluding 95% of the countries exporting counterfeit goods, we are talking about nothing! the commissioner talks about protecting companies and jobs and then we make free trade agreements with morocco, with korea, with pakistan, with india, we remove tariffs, barriers and protections to help banks, insurance companies and multinationals in northern europe and then we try to muzzle the net by selling it as a defense of our companies. the commissioner is not going to fall for this anymore, he is going to check the ports of northern europe, he is going to check the port of rotterdam, for example, if he wants to fight counterfeiting, he is not going to put a gag on anyone. if you really want to do something concrete, take the first plane to china, india or indonesia and bring something concrete home, or else resign.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to know how you feel about the civil rights of people who sell counterfeit medicines, who teach people how to make bombs on the internet and who proselytize for paedophilia. i think it should be made clear that criminal law affects the perpetrators of wrongdoing and not ordinary citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committees have already reiterated their opposition to this agreement. tomorrow it is up to parliament to confirm this vote and to put an end to this contentious dossier. acta is a treaty that aims to introduce a new framework for the protection of intellectual property rights, but it does so indiscriminately, without distinguishing between commercial use for economic gain and consumption by private users without a profit motive. i think we must fight the counterfeit market, fight counterfeiting, but without undermining the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in short, i believe that commercial interests cannot erase civil liberties. for this reason acta is a wrong instrument and for these reasons tomorrow's vote is a very important vote, so tomorrow we must say no to acta to ensure transparency and the protection of citizens' rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the serenity with which mr moreira has just clearly expressed the views of many of us should put us on the right track: we are not discussing in this parliament the freedom of those who use the internet, we are not discussing the civil rights that we all share as we have shown in years of battles. we are defending the right of consumers not to be deceived by counterfeit goods, by medicines which lead to death or disease instead of health, we are trying to get a rational thought from a parliament which unfortunately seems to be under pressure from the lobbies of the big associations which through the internet and the sale of illegal products have become super rich and are influencing the market. we are told that there are millions of young people in europe who fear that there is less freedom on the internet. let's reassure them, it's not true, freedom will be the same, but those who try to use the internet to do dishonest business to the detriment of the community will be penalized.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after this long and lively debate there is only one certainty: there is no certainty! the doubts, contradictions and shadow areas have increased, especially the political ones, as well as the technical and legal ones. i haven't changed my mind about voting tomorrow, but my motivations have certainly strengthened. i understand and agree with the request for a postponement of the vote, but i do not accept that this postponement should be dependent on the conditioning of this parliament, of this institution, with regard to the judiciary. to push politics back in a situation like this, in the face of judicial decisions, i think is an inappropriate transfer of responsibility that we cannot afford. i think the point is that this parliament must take a position tomorrow. the agreement as proposed contains dangerous loopholes, which give rise to legitimate fears of infringement of the right to the protection of personal data and more generally of the right to freedom of communication through the tools of the network. i think that this parliament must accept and accept tomorrow the request that has been made to this parliament by over two and a half million citizens through the committee on petitions. we will then have time to change, to introduce tools that really fight counterfeiting. nothing is inevitable, as the commissioner has said, if there is a clear and real political will.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there should have been a more respectful approach to this question, to the prerogatives of parliament, to the need to avoid a confusing agreement which tends to regulate matters which are too different from one another. i will vote against acta not because i believe that it is a serious breach of the union's fundamental rights, but because counterfeiting and online piracy cannot be tackled with the same tools, as if counterfeiting a purse or a medicine were like downloading a song or a film from the internet. i am against acta because the commission and the council have not yet been willing to regulate in a credible way a subject so exposed in the digital age as the protection of intellectual property on the web. i am against it because the legislation in force would already allow action to be taken against those countries which make a living from counterfeiting. i would like to conclude by reiterating my opposition to an agreement which touches on very sensitive issues, but does so in an ineffective, confusing way, without a legal framework of reference which would only allow me to express a different vote from the one i will express tomorrow.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start with some procedural remarks. a number of members, amongst them mr albrecht and mr scholz, have said that i did not properly inform the european parliament and that i have contributed to secrecy. i have no problem with the parliament having a completely different opinion to the one i have. that is what parliament is for: to reflect all opinions in society. what i do not accept is this criticism, because from the moment that i took responsibility for this file, i have done everything possible to make the results of the negotiations public. and by the way, i managed to convince our negotiating partners to do this. i have no problem with you disagreeing with me, or claiming that i should have followed another procedure. i will respond to that. but claims that i have tried to uphold secrecy in this simply cannot be taken seriously. secondly, it has been said – amongst others by mr rinaldi – that i have not listened to parliament. there, niccolò, i have to tell you that the last time the european parliament pronounced on acta, in november 2010, a majority – albeit a slight one – voted for a resolution supporting acta. so listening to parliament means listening to the majority of parliament, it does not mean listening to an individual member of parliament, or to an individual group in parliament, but to the majority. the last time that parliament pronounced on acta, in november 2010, parliament voted in favour of acta. there is a question by mr tarabella. m. tarabella veut savoir pourquoi je n'ai pas demandé l'avis de la cour de justice plus tôt. il faut bien regarder, monsieur tarabella, le texte de l'article qui porte là-dessus dans la procédure de ratification dans le traité, qui dit:‘a member state, the european parliament, the council or the commission may obtain the opinion of the court of justice as to whether an agreement envisaged is compatible with the treaties. where the opinion of the court is adverse, the agreement envisaged may not enter into force unless it is amended or the treaties are revised.’ cela dit très clairement qu'on peut demander ou solliciter l'avis de la cour de justice une fois que le texte du traité envisagé est définitif, donc quand la négociation a abouti à un résultat. c'est l'idée même de cette procédure spéciale devant la cour de justice. c'est ce que j'ai fait. par ailleurs, je ne suis pas le seul à avoir demandé un avis de la cour de justice, enfin sollicité puis retiré. et si vous le permettez, monsieur le président, parce qu'il me faut quand même un peu de temps pour répondre à toutes ces questions, je vais vous lire une lettre: ‘the draft anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) would have legal implications in several fields of legislative competence of the european parliament, including new ones, such as criminal law.‘ in order to have legal certainty, and to avoid that questions of the compatibility with the treaties arise during the ratification process, or after ratification of the agreement, we would like to request that the european parliament seeks an opinion of the european court of justice concerning acta.‘ thus, on the basis of rule 90(7) of the european parliament’s rules of procedure, we request that the plenary vote be held on the following text: pursuant to article 218(11) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european parliament submits the following request for an opinion of the court: is the envisaged anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) compatible with the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union? signed for the greens/efa group: rebecca harms and jan philipp albrecht. ’ i must say that this is slightly different from what i heard this afternoon from mr albrecht. he has changed his opinion in the meantime, not me. i am also told that in fact i want to use the european court of justice to postpone the whole discussion on this. i think this is an utterly light argument because in any case we are going to have this discussion on all the topics that are discussed in acta. i think it would be very useful that we have the opinion of the european court of justice. i will come back to that later. let me now try to answer the substantive questions that have been put to me. mr lange, you claim that we do not have the substantive law ready. this is true and it is also the main reason why i think we should go to the european court of justice so that they help us in formatting this whole discussion. what i fear is that if you now vote it down – which obviously is on your minds – that we will no longer have that substantive discussion during this mandate. i think it would be a complete mistake not to have that discussion. by sending the whole file to the european court of justice, we create time for ourselves – a kind of time out – so that we can discuss the substantive items that indeed have to be tackled sooner or later. j'ai aussi une question de mme de sarnez et de plusieurs autres députés. pourquoi l'inde, le brésil et la chine ne sont-ils pas parties à cette négociation, à cet accord? parce qu'ils n'en veulent pas, tout simplement. ils ne sont pas d'accord. les pays émergents ne sont pas pour la protection de la propriété intellectuelle. ils sont très réticents à ce sujet. puis, l'argument de dire que s'ils ne sont pas impliqués, cela ne résout rien, ne tient pas. parce que l'acta porte, en fait, sur le renforcement de notre législation, pas seulement à nos frontières mais aussi aux frontières des autres pays associés à cet accord. c'est de cela qu'il s'agit. si les produits contrefaits viennent, par exemple, de chine, il faut les arrêter pas seulement à nos frontières mais aussi aux autres frontières des marchés importants pour eux. ainsi, nous éviterons que la contrefaçon continue. l'idée que ces pays doivent être parties à cet accord n'est pas du tout correcte. d'ailleurs, si la chine n'est pas d'accord à ce sujet, chers collègues, ce n'est pas pour la protection des droits fondamentaux, n'est-ce pas, mais bien pour d'autres raisons. vous dites qu'il n'y a que les pays industrialisés qui sont concernés: sur ce point, je pourrais répéter ma réponse, mais je pense qu'il y a un autre élément qui n'est pas clair dans toutes ces discussions, c'est le débat sur les médicaments. j'ai d'ailleurs reçu des milliers de courriels à ce sujet. heureusement, tous ces courriels étaient identiques sinon j'aurais dû les lire tous. voyez les accords bilatéraux que nous négocions, par exemple, avec l'inde. on m'a posé des questions à ce sujet également. nous avons été très attentifs à ce que ces accords ne ferment pas la porte aux médicaments génériques, bien au contraire. d'ailleurs, madame – mais je vois qu'elle a quitté l'hémicycle –, il y a une différence entre produits génériques et produits contrefaits. c'est d'ailleurs un grave problème et un risque pour la santé publique. certains médicaments sont étiquetés comme étant des génériques mais, en réalité, ce sont des produits contrefaits qui, parfois, ont même des effets contraires à ceux qu'on peut lire sur les notices. quant à la remarque de mme bélier, qui parle de "refus du monde que nous propose l'acta", je peux comprendre cet argument venant de la part de certains groupes, même s'il m'étonne. par contre, je ne comprends pas qu'il s'agisse de l'argument du parlement dans son ensemble. c'est assez curieux. let me now come to who will in fact be the next speaker, david martin, and what he has been saying in his previous speech. david mentions the problem that this treaty could be misinterpreted in the future; that it is not clear enough. basically i agree with that – not technically but politically. technically it is not correct what you are saying – i am not saying you are not putting it correctly but your analysis is not necessarily the correct one. for example, in relation to ‘commercial scale’, when you look at the jurisprudence of the court of justice it is very clear what ‘commercial scale’ is. but of course a citizen is not expected to look at the jurisprudence of the court of justice; that i agree with. however, this is a very clear concept. secondly you say there is the issue of sanctions. again i agree, but you should also agree with me that the issue with criminal sanctions in a treaty is not something that has been negotiated by the european commission; this has been negotiated by the member states and is their sole responsibility. once the text was ready, those member states unanimously agreed to the text. therefore, you cannot blame me for what the member states have put into acta. this is out of our scope; i would say, unfortunately. thirdly, the role of internet service providers ties in with what i want to say as a final point: the issue that they should start checking everything. again the european court of justice has been very clear on this. very recently in the sabam v netlog case, the european court of justice ruled that it is not possible to impose on intermediaries such as social networks a general obligation to monitor user data. that means that the european court of justice is looking into these matters; it is giving answers to these questions. that is why i am so surprised that you no longer want to have this opinion of the court of justice. i understand as rapporteur you have to reflect the opinion of parliament and the opinion of the committee, but as far as i know you started by putting those questions to me. the idea was that you would put those questions to the commission and that we would try to give answers, and it was at that very moment in time that i said: ok, let us also ask the european court of justice what they think about this. but afterwards you changed your minds; ok – that is up to you. that is your democratic responsibility. i think it is also the responsibility of the european commission to be straightforward in this. we need a discussion on intellectual property; we need a discussion on how to enforce intellectual property. i think also we need the guidance of the european court of justice on this. that is why we will continue with this demand for an opinion from the court of justice and come back to you – obviously not only to the european parliament but also to our negotiating partners if it were proved that there are serious problems in this agreement.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 4 july, at 12.30 p.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget for 2013 (2012/2016 ((bud)) (a7-0215/2012).
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the mandate for the trilogue takes place today at a crucial moment for europe, but above all for the europe of tomorrow. the european council of 28 and 29 june decided to adopt a series of measures to ensure a financially stable and competitive europe. i am glad of this, since the heads of government have basically indicated the way out of the crisis for a stronger europe, as we have been saying since the beginning of this procedure: support for growth, competitiveness and employment, especially for young people, and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. these are the priorities which we have set ourselves as a parliament, aware of the immediate need to revive our economy, which cannot do without competitive growth in the european system, accompanied by measures which can provide strong support for young people to enter the world of work. there is also a need for a sufficient level of payments to cover the costs of implementing european programmes and projects, especially in headings 1a, 1b and 2. as we know, this is one of the central issues in the negotiations, perhaps the most difficult given the different orientations expressed so far by some member states. i would like to point out, however, that we want to include a passage from the european council conclusions in the report for tomorrow's vote, in the form of an oral amendment in which the council states that the european union will continue to do whatever is necessary to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it seems to me clear that such a manifestation of political will cannot fail to be followed by a real commitment by all the member states to do everything necessary to achieve the objectives set, restoring the confidence of the citizens and giving a new impetus to growth. i would also like to point out that the payment appropriations proposed by the commission in its draft budget are based on estimates made by the member states themselves and revised downwards by the commission, and which the member states must of course honour. as regards the ral and the interinstitutional meeting on payments which we held on 30 may, i would add that i believe it is essential for the proper conduct of this year's procedure and for the achievement of a result which is truly centred on the needs of the european citizens that there should be a constant exercise in monitoring expenditure in order to be able to take account of needs and to identify future trends. i believe that strong interinstitutional cooperation is essential for this, which unfortunately has not been the case. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. considering that 2013 is the last year of the financial perspective and that we expect a physiological increase in payment levels, it will be all the more important to avoid a dangerous shift in payments from 2012 to 2013. the debate is not only about payments, but also about the need for a sufficient level of appropriations and commitments, because we believe that in a time of crisis, as the council has also said, we need more europe, not less europe, and that is why, in terms of commitments, we need to give force to our political priorities and promote the necessary investments for growth and the creation of new jobs to get out of the crisis. the last aspect, which is certainly important, concerns the financing of iter. we have already taken note of the commission's proposal to use some of the resources made available through some cuts within the seventh framework programme, but i would like to reiterate that parliament intends in any case, as agreed in the joint declaration, to make full use of all the means available within the financial regulation and the interinstitutional agreement. i would like to conclude by thanking my colleagues and especially the shadow editors for their work and, since there is no council, i would like to address only to commissioner lewandowski an invitation to close interinstitutional cooperation throughout the procedure, which i hope will be successful and adequately funded in the interests of the european citizens and within the normal time limits laid down by the treaty.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that in such a complicated period of rationalization of expenditure, of containment and of restructuring of expenditure itself, to define a balanced and reasonable budget as the rapporteur la via has succeeded in proposing is a clear sign of how well one can do even in a context of great difficulty. that said, the libe committee takes note of the indications which, once received by the committee on budgets, were then translated into positive assessments, i am referring to frontex, as well as to the question of the refugee fund. however, when it comes to the safety of citizens, we believe that something more concrete can be done in 2013, which is also a landmark year for the next financial perspective. i am referring in particular to the list of political priorities in which, madam president, there can be no reasonable doubt that the effective fight against organised crime is being pursued. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
member of the commission. − madam president, i should like to thank the members for their comments. i see that it is very fashionable now to compare national budgets with the european budget and this is partly justified, but only partly, as there is no full analogy for several reasons. the european budget is always in equilibrium: no deficit, no indebtedness. this is because of its size: our budget is 1% of gross national income (gni) but it is not comparable to the 4% or 5% of gni spent already on assisting the financial institutions of the european union and this is not the reason for the trillions of debt accumulated in the member states. however it might be part of the solution of how to enhance, in a responsible way, growth and jobs opportunities. if there is an analogy it lies in our efforts to save whatever can be saved. this will be in administration because, for the first time since the beginning of the european community, in 2013 the number of eu officials is going to be reduced, no longer growing. this also concerns agency staff – i am saying this for ms hohlmeier’s sake. are there are performance savings? yes: if we need adjustments, for example in the development cooperation instruments in latin america and asia where some programmes are not performing; then we are making savings and this is clearly reflected in the draft budget for 2013. taken altogether, our spending is now eur 66 billion, less than agreed for the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013. this is the net result of performance savings and being restrained in budgeting in the european union. but what is the budget? this is about the means to cover legitimate bills, bills coming for approved projects in the member states. ninety-four percent of the budget goes outside brussels; only 6% concerns administration. what is the result when we delay or do not pay? that is the problem of reimbursements to the finance ministries: this means deteriorating liquidity in member states, or really reducing investment possibilities in the member states or not supplying the means to overcome the credit crunch for small and medium-sized companies. and the net result, the final result, is the mountain of unpaid commitments. that is about the future bills; no real solution. this is not a real option. the 2013 budget was built on the deliveries coming from the member states and i agree with alain lamassoure that it is perhaps a little bit schizophrenic to send the bills to brussels. we evaluate very critically and then we make an effort to respect the deals and we cannot be criticised for respecting the bills coming from 27 countries. this is a little bit of a schizophrenic approach to the budget. i do not think that anybody is surprised that with the 2013 budget, which is the last, we have additional requests for payments. but it is a practical test of what was called the ‘growth agenda of the european union’, done in a fiscally responsible way.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must thank you for an interesting debate, which seems to me to have produced a large majority of the speeches in favour of supporting the commission's position, because it is clear that the need for payment must obviously follow the commitments made in previous years, and it is undeniable that today, when we have a level of ral that has now reached eur 207 million, there is a mountain of accounts to be paid, accounts which are obviously legitimate because they concern legitimate commitments made in previous years and which must now be honoured. the need for payments is concentrated on those headings which are most closely related to development, to economic growth. that is why we must fight the battle of payments, and parliament is clearly giving a signal of this with this mandate for the trilogue. we have asked for interinstitutional cooperation, we have asked for it because it is clear that without a common starting point in terms of information we can and probably will reach different conclusions. we have already had the experience of the conciliation last year and we started from different assessments. we must monitor payments, and that is what we are asking for today, in an empty council seat, but through our mandate for the trilogue we are asking the council to take part in our interinstitutional dialogue so that, at the end of our discussion, when we are discussing and closing the 2013 budget, we can arrive at a joint vision of the real needs. finally, i thank commissioner lewandowski for his loyal cooperation and the groups who will support this mandate for the trilogue tomorrow, which i hope will pass with a large majority so as to give us negotiating power in the discussion we will have with the other institutions next week.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 4 july, at 12.30 p.m.
the agenda includes the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the eu-israel agreement - conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products (caa). the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there have been delays in the negotiation of this agreement in the inta committee, but there are many other delays of a very different kind on the ground as regards the improvement of the conditions of the palestinian population. this is a discussion about how to prevent products from the colonies from benefiting from this agreement, this is a red line that cannot be crossed, i appreciate what the commissioner said, but it is also true that we have not had mechanisms that have worked so far. it is also a discussion of the political impact of this agreement, because i believe, i fear, that its adoption would be interpreted as an opening of credit to a government which does not pay much attention, so to speak, to the demands of the european union. no tangible progress in resuming negotiations, much less on the continued expansion of settlements in east jerusalem, much less on if only some modest progress the blockade of gaza. that is why the handling of this dossier is not technical, it is an eminently political dossier, it is not trivial, and we also ask the commission to assess how a measure of trade policy becomes, as is normal in this context, a foreign policy act on the ground.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, your answers, although we appreciate the caution with which they have been formulated, only partly reassure us. we are faced with a question which is eminently political, not merely commercial: the formal consistency between this agreement and the more general association agreement with israel cannot justify subterfuge which allows easy violations of the prohibition of israel under international law in respect of products manufactured in the occupied territories. i am aware of our economic interests, i am also aware of the technical significance of this protocol, but i believe that the european union must take care to verify the origin of products, because no protocol or agreement can derogate from the more general context which it is now presiding over. the repeated violation of this point by israel does not help the process of détente which we all feel is needed and which must see the european union as an active part of its solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i have been in this parliament for 23 years and whenever israel is mentioned, there are visceral reactions rather than technical and concrete discussions. parliament is firm on the ideological and political differences between those who are for or against israel, issues which do not come within the scope of the agreement under discussion and which needlessly block the negotiations. the possibility for israeli companies to exploit the protocol agreement to export goods to the occupied territories is countered by the possibility of rejecting such products at the eu borders by the so-called 'technical agreement' which allows the customs authorities of the member states to refuse declarations of conformity for goods and products for which there are substantial doubts as to their origin. apart from the fact, of course, that if the council had approved the regulation on designations of origin we would not have this problem, so i hope that the inta committee will vote on this agreement as soon as possible and that the debate in committee will be a debate that concerns at least the reduction of technical barriers to trade and will not continue to be fossilized on the instrumentalization of a problem that does not exist. we must come to the house and vote, because this agreement has been waiting too long, bringing a document to europe and israel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have said that this is a technical protocol on the production of pharmaceutical products, which was already negotiated by the commission and approved by the council in 2010. it cannot be seen as an upgrade of relations with israel, said high representative ashton here in parliament. the commission also stated that no amendment to this agreement was necessary, and that the high quality of the medicines produced and the economic benefits for the national health systems were established. the italian one, for example, would save millions of euros in patient care costs. i believe that the opposition to this agreement is in fact purely political in nature, with the intention of boycotting israel. those who oppose this agreement for political reasons should also oppose trade agreements with china, which occupies tibet, with russia, which occupies part of georgia, with armenia, which occupies nagorno-karabakh, and with all those states which commit serious violations of human rights, two thirds of humanity.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note that the legislative process for adopting the commission's proposal for the implementation of direct payments in 2013 is now in its final phase. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, and also the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr paolo de castro, for their strong commitment to moving this matter forward quickly through this process and also for their willingness to reach an agreement with the council at first reading, which will help us to take a quick decision. as you know, the commission attaches great importance to the rapid adoption of this regulation in order to ensure a good implementation of direct payments in 2013. for this reason i am glad that the compromise text is on the agenda for this plenary session for a vote tomorrow. at the informal trilogue on 24 may 2012, a political agreement was reached with the parliament and the council on the commission proposal. this compromise text contains a number of amendments which are deemed necessary by common agreement between parliament and the council and to which the commission can subscribe. i am also aware that some of the elements of this political agreement were concluded on the basis that the scope of application of this transitional regulation is limited to 2013 and does not prejudge decisions to be taken in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy and also the financial perspective which will, i hope, be adopted soon.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too, of course, and the committee on budgets, applaud the fact that this legislative procedure is being concluded quickly and at first reading. the only aspect of course is the committee on budgets, and that is the link that direct payments in 2013 have with the new multiannual financial framework. as you know, the agricultural year in financial terms closes on 15 october, and the direct payments due in 2013 will in fact be paid into the 2014 budget. unfortunately, this multiannual financial framework is not moving fast enough, and the danish presidency has simply decided to hand over the work done to the cypriot woman who will have to carry it on. we all hope that this work will be completed as soon as possible because this will not only allow direct payments in 2013 but will of course allow the implementation of the reform in the shortest possible time.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the lisbon treaty abolishes the old comitology system and replaces it with a two-tier structure, based on delegated acts which provide for the right of veto of the european parliament and the council and implementing acts which completely exclude parliament at every stage of their adoption. the existing body of legislation had therefore to be brought into line with the new legal situation. we have started this exercise with the three most important regulations which, mr president, i will deal with all three together, and which form the heart of the agricultural policy, the regulation on direct payments, the regulation on rural development and the regulation on the common organization of the market. the commission's proposals seemed to us at first sight to be fairly balanced and the changes made by the committee on agriculture were very few. in particular, for direct payments, delegated acts should be used where the basic act is amended and where rights are conferred on farmers or where negative consequences for farmers may arise. we also felt that, in the light of the spirit of the treaty on the common agricultural policy in budgetary matters, the financial discipline procedure could no longer be applied without the participation of the european parliament. in fact, to leave article 11, which provides that the council shall act on a proposal from the commission, unchanged would be an unacceptable continuation of the council's exclusive right to exercise directly implementing powers. as regards rural development, we believe that the commission has made a careful breakdown between the more general provisions which lay down complementary elements and therefore require delegated acts and the more technical elements, which are closely linked to the discretion enjoyed by the member states in implementing this measure, which therefore require implementing acts. the proposal for alignment on the regulation on the common organisation of the market has proved more problematic, particularly with regard to the elements linked to article 43 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this article provides that the council, on a proposal from the commission, is to adopt measures relating to the fixing of prices, levies, aid and quantitative restrictions. this is a derogation from article 2 (2) of the same regulation, which provides for the use of the ordinary legislative procedure for the common agricultural policy. as a derogating provision, article 43 (3) must be interpreted strictly, that is, only where there are provisions which are not part of the fundamental political decisions, but which must be taken in accordance with article 43 (2) of the treaty. we therefore consider that the committee's proposal does not interpret article 43 (3) narrowly enough. the definition of the conditions and criteria for fixing the aid, the export refunds, the minimum export prices should remain the responsibility of the legislator, that is to say the parliament and the council, while the commission should be left to fix the amounts by means of implementing acts. once these three reports were approved by a very large majority in the committee on agriculture, we began negotiations with the council and the commission to try to reach an agreement at first reading. the urgency was dictated by the imminent process of reform of the common agricultural policy, which we would have liked to avoid being burdened by complex negotiations on institutional matters. despite our willingness to negotiate and to make some concessions to our initial position, and despite the great activism of the polish presidency, followed by the danish presidency, we have not been able to find a compromise solution, hence the need for the commission to act efficiently and in a timely manner on the one hand and the new and stronger powers conferred on parliament by the lisbon treaty on the other. the main obstacles we have seen are from the council, which wants to systematically and horizontally eliminate delegated acts, even when they are legally necessary, and replace them with implementing acts which completely exclude parliament. we cannot accept this position, because it means renouncing the new prerogatives that the treaty gives us, and it severely limits the powers of parliament. another factor which has made the negotiations more difficult has been the attitude of the commission, which has moved from a position close to that of parliament to the council's positions during the negotiations, leaving us alone in the battle to defend the most authentic interpretation of the treaty. we now have the difficult negotiations on the reform of the cap and have therefore decided to ask the house to confirm the vote on alignment in the committee on agriculture, so that we have more power when we negotiate the future agricultural policy. only by defending the prerogatives of parliament will we be sure of respecting the spirit of the lisbon treaty and at the same time making the cap of the future more democratic and closer to the citizens.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the process of aligning the so-called horizontal regulation with the new rules of the treaty is based on a classification into delegated powers and implementing powers of the provisions adopted by the commission pursuant to the said regulation. after careful examination of the commission proposal in the light of the criteria laid down for the two categories of acts, articles 290 and 291 respectively, we have identified the areas where the conditions for delegated acts are met, and then examined the proposal in terms of the conditions for implementing acts. in the committee on agriculture we proposed and voted on amendments concerning the conditions for delegation, duration, deadline for objecting to a delegated act, extension of deadlines, committee procedures, in accordance with the common understanding on the practical arrangements and use of delegated acts, approved by the conference of presidents on 3 march 2011, and regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission. in this context, among the points of disagreement with the council, i would also mention the willingness to use implementing acts in situations where, according to the treaty, they would be the most logical and appropriate instrument. i think that this parliament, for its part, cannot afford to give up control over such important and sensitive issues as transparency, article 40a, or sanctions on beneficiaries. these alignment reports, we must admit, are the test bed of a new working method which must be established between parliament, the council and the commission, but which must be as effective as possible, according to a framework of articulated competences which i hope will always converge towards the implementation of effective means for the development of european agriculture. in procedural terms, the majorities required within the council to block an implementing act are exactly the same as for a delegated act. the council's resistance to the use of delegated acts is therefore unjustified and, if maintained, could be an unnecessary obstacle to the reform of the common agricultural policy. i should also say that we have proposed some elements which we believe should be improved, but these, as well as the national disengagement, have not been accepted and agreed by the commission and the council, and will therefore be the subject of negotiation and discussion again in the framework of the horizontal regulation for the reform of the cap. the lack of agreement on the alignment of the horizontal regulation has led us to ask the house to vote on this so that we can have, as president de castro said, greater contractual power and a firm position of parliament on the matter. this report, like the others which have been discussed so far, has nevertheless represented an important moment for this parliament, which for the first time is actively involved in the process of defining the new agricultural policy through codecision. it was not a simple process of transposition, as many have pointed out, but a serious awareness on the part of my colleagues in the agri committee of how well the cap instruments have worked so far, and therefore they must be made fit for the new reform by means of appropriate instruments and useful corrections. i wanted to close with a reference: we have seen through a long series of trilogues the difficulty of reaching agreement on alignment, it was a missed opportunity that risks wasting time in the subsequent process of approving the reform of the common agricultural policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur's report on support for rural development that it should include some important simplification measures, such as the reduction in the number of annual progress reports and summary reports. the commission has also proposed that the rules on the use of advisory services be amended to reduce the administrative burden on member states. i also agree with mr de castro that support for producer associations in the fruit and vegetable sector should not be excluded from the measures to support the establishment and administrative operation of producer associations. i also think it is essential, as the rapporteur has said, that member states which have opted for regional programmes should be allowed to calculate the automatic decommitment of financial resources at member state level. i also agree with mr capoulas santos's position on the report on the financing systems of the european agricultural guarantee fund. i also thank the other colleagues i have not mentioned for their work.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to your various remarks. i would like to emphasize what i said in my introduction and, in particular, to reply to mr lyon. the commission will support the european parliament wherever legally possible, in accordance with the content of articles 290 and 291. article 290 provides that delegated acts are to be applied to amend or supplement non-essential elements of a legislative act. article 291, as you have said, only gives the commission the possibility of ensuring uniform application of the basic acts. it is in this spirit that we have worked and it is in this spirit that i hope we will work to find the final formulas and an agreement. mr nicholson, who is no longer here, spoke of the growing tensions between parliament and the commission. in any case, i can assure you that i will not fuel these tensions. i think it is in the interest of all - the farmers, as mr olejniczak said, but also the consumers and the european citizens - to reach an agreement. as regards the organic regulations to which mrs patrão neves referred, i am prepared to find a solution which involves parliament in the process of deciding on substances. but we also have to assess the interest of the producer in organic farming. how can we avoid making the decision-making process on a substance too complicated and lengthy? for this reason, i propose as a compromise to analyse that, in the context of the adaptation of the basic regulation on organic farming, we now provide, in a more precise way, the criteria on the basis of which the introduction or non-introduction of a substance is approved. when those criteria become more precise, following an ordinary legislative procedure, and only on the basis of those criteria, the commission could present implementing acts to limit its role to the application of the criteria already included in the basic act. there is also the other possibility you mentioned, namely to include the list of substances in the annex to the basic act, but this would require the ordinary legislative procedure to be applied to each substance, which would risk greatly delaying the adoption process. if we can agree on a set of criteria in the basic act for the adoption of these substances, i hope we can get parliament involved in this procedure. i suggest that we work on these options in order to find a compromise, and i hope that we will do so fairly quickly after the vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i take this minute to thank my colleagues for their comments and also to thank the commissioner. we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments which are not in the report. i therefore appeal to the commissioner, we are in the era of lisbon, the council must understand that parliament has new prerogatives, which it does not intend to renounce. we shall be voting tomorrow on the commission's proposal, and we hope that the council will eventually adopt these positions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this debate was useful, because the way in which a number of members have expressed their views on the alignment of the various regulations with the treaty of lisbon has confirmed in the presence of the commissioner how much parliament is concerned with maintaining its role and its prerogatives. it is therefore clear that in this context, beyond what we will be voting on tomorrow - which in fact does not differ significantly from the positions initially formulated by the commission - it is just another step in the direction and on the path we must take, not only for the implementation of all the prerogatives given by the lisbon treaty to community regulation, but also and above all in the direction of the new common agricultural policy. mr commissioner, you know very well how many times we have met under the various presidencies. he knows how much effort, commitment and time we have spent on this path, when we have become bogged down in horizontal issues which should have covered all the regulations and we have had difficulty in moving forward. we now need to go back to that. tomorrow's vote is simply an intermediate stage in which parliament, by means of its vote, wishes to make clear once again its position and its determination not to give up its prerogatives. on the other hand, we must begin to work so that alignment with the treaty of lisbon, with all the regulations governing the common agricultural policy, does not become a hindrance to the adoption of the policy itself. we shall meet again on the contents of the agricultural policy, we shall discuss them, this parliament will play its part, but on the alignment with the lisbon treaty i believe that we can start working again immediately to speed up the timetable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by wishing the next cypriot presidency all the best. the situation is not easy, either financially or politically. i can assure you that you will have all the support i and my party can give you to counter any attempt by turkey to put pressure on you, as has happened in the recent past. europe, perhaps for its own petty interests, is pretending not to see the situation in cyprus as it is today. i visited you a few months ago and i saw firsthand the historical, cultural and religious destruction wrought by the turkish invaders in the north of the island. cyprus has asked for financial support to get out of this crisis. europe has allocated €5 billion to turkey over the period 2007-2013 to support the country's high growth rate, and the eib even granted loans to turkey worth over €2 billion last year. perhaps europe, the european union, should think first of its own member states and not help those who even threaten them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr christofias, you are facing a very difficult and demanding six months, but one with an absolute priority, and that priority is growth. financial stability is useful and important, but it is not enough on its own to provide a positive response to the millions of european citizens who are living in precarious conditions today and who risk seeing their condition worsen further. but growth is only achieved through robust and targeted investment in sectors which can create jobs and employment and in turn reproduce development. for this reason it will be very important to ensure that the union has a multiannual financial framework, but also and above all to find resources to add to this framework. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the tobin tax or on the eurobonds. we must all work together to find them. if we really want to do what you said about energy or transport networks, the funding available today is useful to start a process, but it is not enough to achieve it in the time the union has given itself. so, alongside the idea of growth, we must develop the idea of resources which are added to the ordinary budget of the union. i'd like to say something else. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. of course, the final judgment will be based on what you are able to develop but it matters a lot and it is an act of generosity and political foresight also to start processes, which can be concluded at other times and thus be to the benefit of those who come after you. we need to strengthen institutional and political integration: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr christofias, the press in my country asked me: will you support cyprus even if the president is a communist? i replied that we would support cyprus precisely because the president is a communist, democratically elected by his own people, and democracy is the main value of reference for a europe that is proud of its democratically elected presidents. you have taken a step forward, mr president, by asking the european union not to export its model of democracy. i fully agree with you that we do not want to export democracy, we want to witness democracy and i believe that we are witnessing democracy when we remind turkey that the military occupation of the northern part of cyprus is an injustice and that the cypriots must find their own ideal solution. we are witnessing democracy when we remind those who are now in power in countries in the southern mediterranean area, such as egypt, that it would be an injustice to apply sharia law to 10 million coptic christians, and that it would be an injustice to return to female genital mutilation with a law that has no basis in reality. mr christofias, i believe that you will have to live for six months with important and curious contradictions, because you are a communist and you want to help the workers and you will find yourself in the position, in order to help the workers, of having to support the banks, which have certainly also played a negative role in some phases of our crisis. i think that at the end of these six months we will all be a little more cypriot and you perhaps a little less communist.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cyprus is the thorn in the side of europe, a europe which, for purely commercial reasons, has not only refused to force turkey to liberate the northern part of cyprus, which it invaded in 1974, but has even financed it. the people of northern cyprus have been deprived of their homes, their jobs, their religious freedom. your primate was even prevented from celebrating the christmas mass in the occupied part, because he is a christian, and over 500 religious buildings were destroyed and property was ransacked. i hope that the six-month term of the cypriot presidency will lead the european union to take a firm stand against the invaders and to finally serve the interests of its own citizens and not those of a few economic powers which have commercial interests in turkey. president, i wish you with all my heart that you can do something for your land and your people, who deserve to be able to be masters of their own home again.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to these six legislative reports on alignment with lisbon which we are about to vote on. these are not just agricultural matters, but they concern the whole of parliament. we are in danger of losing the new powers that the treaty of lisbon has given us. the council systematically opposes delegated acts, replacing them with implementing acts which exclude parliament from the decision-making process. we must go on to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament. i therefore ask you to support the vote by a very large majority in the committee on agriculture.
rapporteur. − mr president, i want to add an oral amendment to paragraph 88. the text of the oral amendment is: ‘a sufficient level of payments to allow for the 2012 june european council commitment to mobilise eu budget funds for fast-acting growth measures to be implemented without any delay and within the current mff’.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, simply to add my voice to the applause this report has received in the house in relation to the need to strengthen the capacity of the european union to be a place where it is possible to invest, produce, and produce in the light of our conception of an inclusive, socially and environmentally sustainable economy. i believe that some of the indications in this measure are very useful, others can be added, i believe that it is important to take up this indication, to work more and more so that attractiveness is the consequence of territorial marketing and opening-up policies which are, on the part of the territory, the proposal of a productive, industrial, manufacturing and service vocation which, arising from the territory, is respectful of all environmental compatibilities and, together, european policies that go in this direction, from the territory and from europe a voice that is attractive for investment and for growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to attract investment to europe, we need concrete measures and bold reforms. we must ensure free and fair competition between businesses, and in a globalised economy and in crisis as the present one, we must above all strengthen the competitiveness of businesses and their capacity to grow and create jobs, jobs first and foremost! europe must become an attractive place to invest and work again. the crisis we are experiencing today is a global crisis and europe must do its part to make entrepreneurship stronger and more competitive and above all more attractive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must face up to its weaknesses and strengthen its strengths in order to attract local and international investment, in the interests of growth and cohesion. the european union is the largest trading area in the world, where important foreign investments are directed, although the share is smaller than in the past, and this is mainly because foreign investors are discouraged, not only by the problems related to the crisis, but by the many criticisms of the european union market. i therefore share the rapporteur's call for a commission communication to promote the attractiveness of investment in europe. objectives of the programme: improving the functioning of the single market, using the structural funds, maximising the benefits of cohesion policy, ensuring stability and improving access to finance, promoting project bonds and increasing research on innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be attractive, the european union must have a policy and regulatory framework based on the objectives of sustainable growth, as set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the high quality of products and a strong propensity for research and innovation are the strengths of our system and to be more strategic they need the creation of a genuine internal market in which firms can compete openly. the cosme programme 2014-2020 should be a real opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises. a new energy model, independent of the rise in oil prices, which can offer european businesses an affordable energy cost, must be created. as indicated in paragraph 16, it is interesting to see the creation of a european observatory which would also be able to monitor the reduction of fiscal and bureaucratic obstacles and the use of cohesion policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is consistent with the overall development strategy of a sector which is still in great difficulty, a sector characterized by great volatility in the markets, environmental challenges and the need for environmental safety. the limit on aid to individual farmers is right, as are the incentives for 'greening' to benefit from these new concrete methods which can develop and give competitiveness in this sector, and also the aid to young people. an important programme, a concrete programme which also concerns small businesses. development is exactly what is needed. simplified procedures, more streamlined procedures, procedures which guarantee direct payment to ensure that a sector which is currently in great difficulty has a real chance of development: it is for this reason that i voted in favour, it is for this reason that i supported an intervention which also allows direct payments to young farmers to give them a chance and an opportunity for initiative and entrepreneurial development which can have a significant employment impact which the european union cannot fail to take due account of.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this measure also falls within the wider context of the common strategic framework for agriculture, and it is an important measure which is combined with the others also adopted today in the plenary. however, we have observed, also in the light of the information provided by the rapporteur, that the council's position on opposing delegated acts constitutes an undue exhaustion of the powers and prerogatives which remain the responsibility of the european parliament. interinstitutional dialogue, on the other hand, would require the council to be more open. simplification of community funds and possible use of structural funds are important issues, as is the issue of preserving ecosystems and better organising the agri-food chain, making farmers more attractive and developing skills linked to the results achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr la via's text on the financing of the common policy is designed to reduce the complex european bureaucracy in the agricultural sector. in particular, the amendments concerning the expenditure to be financed by the european agricultural guarantee fund and the recovery procedure represent a simplification due to the elimination of two council regulations and the consequent reduction in the administrative burden on the states. i therefore voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about sensitive issues such as the authorization of products and substances for use in organic production, we are talking about the protection of the health of european citizens. it is important to meet consumers' expectations as regards the quality of organic products circulating on european markets, and it is also important to ensure that the relevant authorities, bodies and operators apply community legislation appropriately. that is why i voted in favour of the text.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must guarantee the fundamental rights of citizens, democracy, freedom of expression and free access to the internet, but we must not ignore the commitment - which must be strong - to combating counterfeiting, piracy and infringement of intellectual property. just think of the huge business that revolves around counterfeit medicines, sometimes lethal to the health of citizens. i abstained because it was useful to vote after the court of justice's ruling, and because acta has many weaknesses. first, china, india, russia and brazil, where many counterfeit goods originate, are not part of the agreement, and second, acta provides for unclear rules and excessive penalties that risk imposing restrictive measures on citizens' freedom on the internet, violating fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, council regulation no 73/2009, which lays down the rules for the current system of direct payments to farmers, will be replaced by other proposals in the context of the cap reform for the period 2014-2020. in its proposals for the multiannual financial framework of the cap for the period 2014-2020, the commission proposes to mobilise a crisis reserve to meet additional financing needs due to sudden agricultural crises. in 2013, the net ceiling for the member states of the european union would be equal to the value of the 2012 net ceiling, with some adjustments linked to the grubbing-up carried out in 2012 and the estimated transfer of the wine sector allocation to the single payment scheme. i agree with the solution contained in the report and that is why i voted in favour of the colleague's proposal, as i believe it is necessary to maintain the existing financial structure for the year 2013 in order to ensure continuity in payment levels and to support agricultural development effectively.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for the report on animal welfare because it introduces important concepts for a better future for animals and for european citizens. issues such as a new directive protecting dogs and cats, the violation of the zoos and laying hens directive by many member states, the maintenance of the march 2013 deadline for animal tested cosmetics must be addressed urgently and as a matter of priority. it is also necessary to provide for mandatory labelling for the meat of animals slaughtered in a barbaric manner without stunning. a european standard on animal welfare should be adopted and a body set up to monitor member states' compliance with the sectoral standards. but much more can and must be done for the welfare of animals. modern and civilized europe can no longer tolerate such barbaric, uncivilized and anachronistic practices as vivisection, hunting and bullfighting. we must immediately abandon these absurd activities in the interests of a europe which is more respectful of animals, but also more respectful of the will of its citizens, who are often far more farsighted, attentive and sensitive than the national and community authorities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, animal welfare is an ethical objective but also a public health objective, because better animal health standards help to prevent the spread of diseases, in accordance with the 'one health' principle, and therefore also guarantee greater food safety, which goes hand in hand with the quality of products and the strengthening of the competitiveness of european agriculture, even if there is the problem of unfair competition: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. in conclusion, i say stop the indiscriminate and barbaric use of animals such as guinea pigs and the slaughter of strays.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of animal welfare is part of and complementary to sustainable development policy. the european institutions, as signatories to the sustainable development pact, must make a serious effort to ensure that this level is adequate. deterioration in the health status of wild animals may result in increased transmission of contagious diseases to domestic animals, with a negative impact on public health. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that there is a need for better implementation of the existing legislation, with particular attention to the transport of animals. i welcome the inclusion in the strategy of a european framework law on animal welfare and i share the wish of mrs paulsen that this law be formulated clearly and then consulted with all the parties concerned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the first comments on the council, we have now entered the phase of reductive reading, and that is wrong, because important steps have been taken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the spirit of revival and renewed political unity seems to be returning to the european institutions after so much slowness and torpor, and a will to make real progress towards greater integration. we have seen yesterday a strong unity between parliament and the commission on this. i am not talking about winners and losers, but it is undeniable that there has been a new institutional and political vitality compared with the past diarchy, which was the negation, the very antithesis of the community spirit. there has been a move and an activism by several countries, not to create new exclusionary axes, but to build a common and respectful consensus of all the member states. this is the path to the political objective of unity, without which any union, banking, fiscal or monetary, will be wholly inadequate.
mr president, it must be acknowledged that the european council of 28 june represented an important political step forward, finally in contrast to years of renationalisation of european policies, delays in the process of strengthening and completion of the union's institutional and economic structure to support the single currency. today, to question or threaten vetoes by certain governments or political sectors against the decisions taken and which will be confirmed - i hope - and clarified by the next ecofin meeting is irresponsible and risks undermining the commitment of the european parliament to push forward the common objectives, namely to increase own resources, investment, employment and growth. the question of the tobin tax is on the agenda today, thanks to the efforts of our political group and the italian and french governments, in cooperation with the spanish government, but it must also be a question of a renewed drive towards greater political and economic integration of the european union.
in writing. − following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission under regulation (ec) no 73/2009 need to be aligned with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in this field, alignment is achieved by this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers. in order to simplify the current regulatory environment and reduce the administrative burden on member states and to ensure greater clarity and legal certainty, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i am also in favour of this report because it contains amendments in terms of alignment and simplification. the treaty of lisbon abolishes the old comitology system and replaces it with delegated and implementing acts. one of the first proposals for alignment establishes common rules for direct support to farmers under the cap and establishes support schemes for farmers. the report examines the european commission proposal and proposes to use delegated acts only in certain cases. on simplification, the proposal provides for a number of provisions on the current regulatory environment and the reduction of the administrative burden for member states, for example the possibility of exempting farmers who do not submit area payment applications or who declare only areas of less than one hectare from the obligation to declare area.
in writing. the vote approves a number of provisions aimed at simplifying the current regulatory environment and reducing the administrative burden on member states. these changes will mainly concern farmers who do not own land eligible for area payments. the new proposal contains changes in terms of alignment, but also provides for a simplification of the regulation. although it is difficult to predict how many farmers may be affected by this change, it can be assumed that there are not many if one takes into account the increasing trend towards decoupling of livestock payments and the transfer to area payments. however, the amendment implies a reduction in the administrative burden for certain member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr de castro's text, which contains a number of provisions designed to simplify the current regulatory environment and reduce the administrative burden on member states. these amendments will relate, inter alia, to cross-compliance and the possibility for member states to exempt from the obligation to declare area those farmers who declare areas of less than one hectare. finally, i would like to emphasize the choice made by the committee on agriculture, which, in the absence of agreement with the council, decided by today's votes to send a strong signal in view of the forthcoming negotiations on the reform of the cap.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr de castro's report, as i welcome the simplification elements introduced in the current regulation, which aims to relieve the member states of some of the administrative burden in the process of aligning council regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development from the eafrd with the new rules of the tfeu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, so the objective is twofold: firstly, to adapt existing legislation to the new provisions of the treaty concerning the commission's implementing powers and, secondly, to simplify the regulation currently in force (reduction in the number of progress and summary reports required for rural development, simplification of cross-compliance checks and rules for the use of advisory services, etc.). this proposal will increase legal clarity and certainty, thereby making the lisbon treaty a reality for the benefit of citizens, and will allow for a more efficient and targeted use of funds.
in writing. - by voting in favour of the various reports on the common agricultural policy presented today in this chamber, we wish to stress the importance for this parliament of proceeding with the alignment, opposed on several occasions by the council, of the legislative procedures provided for in article 290 of the treaty, which also confers delegated acts on the commission on the revision of the cap. this is a procedure which is essential in order to promote rural development and agricultural activities in our territory. we therefore welcome mr de castro's proposal for the effective and targeted use of eafrd funds in relation to the various beneficiaries, but we regret that, in extending to all member states the possibilities for financing producer associations, the fruit and vegetable sector, which is of strategic importance for european agriculture and for the health of our consumers, has been excluded. we recall that the fruit and vegetable sector contributes to environmental protection, economic growth and the creation of many direct and indirect jobs, which have been affected by the current economic crisis in many regions of the union. we hope that the commission can solve this problem and include the fruit and vegetable sector among the beneficiaries of the eafrd.
in writing. − the treaty provisions provide for a distinction between the powers delegated to the commission to adopt non-legislative acts of general application supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of a legislative act and the powers of the commission to adopt uniform conditions for the implementation of legally binding union acts. in order to ensure an effective and targeted use of the funds as regards the treatment of beneficiaries, by giving the commission the task of adding further elements necessary for the proper functioning of the scheme proposed by the legislator himself, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − in relation to the existing regulation, the commission may, by means of delegated acts, introduce derogations from the rule that rural development support shall not be granted for measures financed by common market organisations. i am in favour of the report by mr de castro which suggests that we should ensure that the resources available are used effectively and in a targeted manner as regards the treatment of beneficiaries when covered by delegated acts. the regulation introduces simplification elements, alongside which the incentive element for measures approved under article 43 of the treaty, cofinanced rural development measures, should be introduced. the commission rightly proposes to extend to all member states the possibilities of financing to support the establishment and administrative operation of producer associations. the report considers the exclusion of fruit and vegetable producer associations from support to be discriminatory.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend to all member states the existing funding opportunities for supporting the establishment and administrative operation of producer associations, but the rapporteur considers it discriminatory to exclude support for producer associations in the fruit and vegetable sector. the aim is to ensure effective and targeted use of funds in relation to the treatment of beneficiaries, which is essentially covered by delegated acts in the proposal. other provisions concerning the practical arrangements for the programmes, measures and standards are covered in the proposal by implementing acts to be adopted by the member states. in order to harmonise the eafrd and the erdf, vat on non-taxable persons such as public institutions will become eligible for eafrd support.
in writing. - the report by mr de castro on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single cmo regulation) was approved by my group. this is a commitment to avoid placing an unjustified burden on the substantial reform of the single market if the commission's proposal for alignment were still being negotiated. i do so in the knowledge that there is still much work to be done within the dossier.
in writing. - recalling the need to align council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets (single cmo) with the new distinction between delegated powers and implementing powers of the commission introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the proposal gives the legislator the power to define the essential elements of the common organisation of agricultural markets. in order to leave it to the legislator to define the conditions and criteria for fixing aid, export refunds and minimum export prices, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - in a historical context of economic uncertainty and market volatility, community support is essential to boost the competitiveness of the agricultural sector globally. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's trade policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's trade policy. i support the need to achieve the fundamental objectives of improving the functioning of the single market, making wise use of the structural funds, maximising the benefits of cohesion policy, ensuring stability and improving access to finance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the introduction of new measures.
in writing. − in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the alignment of regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 with the new treaty rules is based on a classification into delegated powers and implementing powers of the provisions adopted by the commission pursuant to that regulation. in view of the amendments concerning the conditions for delegation and the consequent simplification and reduction of the administrative burden on the member states, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the adoption of this text is crucial because it contains our agricultural policy, which is the most important chapter in the union's budget. the amendments to regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 aim at simplification and efficiency; this means that farmers are actually helped and bureaucracy is reduced by eliminating the complex and burdensome procedures for the member states. i hope that both the commission and the council will adopt a constructive approach to reaching an agreement, and i shall vote in favour of the amendments proposed by mr la via.
in writing. i have wanted to support mr häusling's report, because it takes up and develops, in the field of organic production and labelling of organic products, certain principles which i consider to be fundamental for this sector: to respond to consumer expectations regarding the quality of organic products, to ensure the proper enforcement of the legislation by the authorities, bodies and operators concerned, and to safeguard the proper functioning of the single market and trade.
in writing. − this report calls, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), for the current regulation (ec) no 834/2007 to be aligned by applying the principle of the distinction between measures of an implementing nature and measures of a delegated nature. in order to better meet consumers' expectations of the quality of organic products, the commission has adopted specific rules for the application of this regulation. the commission has made a clear distinction between the provisions in this respect and i therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the current regulation (ec) no 834/2007 must be aligned by applying the principle of the distinction between measures of an implementing nature and measures of a delegated nature. the commission shall adopt, by means of implementing acts, the necessary provisions to ensure uniform application of this regulation throughout the union, with particular reference, for example, to the details and specifications concerning the content, form and manner of notification, presentation and exchange of information. i am glad that the commission has made a careful allocation of the provisions, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - as it was impossible to reach agreement on the horizontal issues (linked to various alignment dossiers) between the council and the european parliament during the informal trilogues, all the agricultural alignment dossiers that we discussed in this plenary will no longer be dealt with separately, but will instead be taken up in the context of the cap reform process and the four legislative packages that we are about to amend at the level of the committee on agriculture. these negotiations did not lead to an agreement mainly because of the council's reluctance to accept the application of article 290 on delegated acts, as proposed by the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. i hope that my vote in favour and that of my colleagues will send a strong signal to the council in view of the forthcoming negotiations on the reform of the cap.
in writing. − following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission must be aligned with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union based on a classification into delegated powers and implementing powers. considering that some parts of the wording of the articles on delegation do not correspond to the standard wording for those articles agreed in the draft memorandum of understanding and to the wording agreed by the institutions in regulation no 438/2010, and therefore need to be amended, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the package of basic cap regulations to be adopted in lisbon has been greatly delayed by the council's rigidity and by a shift in the polish presidency which prevented us from concluding the agreements previously defined. today we are dealing not only with the old regulations in the package, but also with new texts on the cap and with the adoption of the adaptation in lisbon, which was approved by comagri in april 2011. the amendments to the treaty of lisbon, which abolish the old comitology system, allow the commission to exercise powers of implementation and execution and change the role of the european council, which may, on a proposal from the commission, adopt measures relating to the fixing of prices, levies, aid and quantitative restrictions, show us even more clearly the important role of parliament. it is therefore necessary to bring the legislative body into line with the new legal reality, an alternative system consistent with articles 290 and 291, a system which enables us, the european parliament, to act for the protection of farmers, land, products and agricultural markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr susta's recommendation because by joining the wto the russian federation is obliged to commit itself to adapting its trade agreements with the other countries to the principles of free trade. the agreement on the relaxation of restrictions in the russian services sector will bring the european union considerable benefits in a sector which currently represents 20% of european exports to the russian federation.
in writing. − by becoming a member of the wto, russia will become a country relatively open to foreign services, giving foreign service providers substantially greater market access opportunities. not only will such commitments by russia create more business opportunities for european companies, but they will also improve the situation for european exporters and investors currently working with russia, including in terms of non-discrimination and free competition. in order to ensure that the european union continues to benefit from a regime more favourable than the multilateral one, i am voting in favour of the conclusion of the bilateral 'new agreement' between the european union and russia.
in writing. - i support mr susta's report. of course, these openings by russia, even with its imminent entry into the world trade organization, are good news. russia is a very important market for our companies. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. − with russia's accession to the world trade organisation, the country will gradually open up to foreign services. russia has therefore agreed to lower its barriers to trade and investment and to grant more favourable treatment than before to foreign suppliers in eleven sectors including professional services, information technology, construction, postal services, telecommunications, media, transport, distribution, tourism and travel services and financial services. the most important commitments were the concessions in the telecommunications sector, namely the phasing-out within four years of the current limit (49%) on foreign shareholdings in telecommunications groups and the decision to apply the terms of the agreement on basic telecommunications. in the financial sector, the commercial presence of foreign insurers on the russian market will be allowed under certain restrictive conditions, nine years after accession to the world trade organisation. the vote therefore approves the agreement between the union and russia on safeguarding commitments on trade in services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement whereby the eu and russia commit themselves to each other on the liberalisation of services. in particular, this agreement commits russia to amend its domestic legislation to bring its laws in many areas into line with the rules and status of membership of the world trade organisation. as regards the trade effects of the agreement, it will be essential in the course of the negotiations to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded in 1994 to update the terms of the bilateral commitments in order to obtain additional commitments from russia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr zalewski's recommendation because it is one of the tasks of the european union to combat the practice of relocation where it damages the productive fabric of the member states for the benefit of a third country, in this case the russian federation. i therefore agree with the need to protect european car manufacturers from having to conclude agreements with russia which are disadvantageous to the european union and which involve the production of a large number of cars in russia, as this would lead to a significant drop in european union exports to russia and consequently to a significant economic loss for the member states.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the russian accession package allows for certain trade-distorting measures, such as the package of investment measures affecting trade in the automotive sector in russia, which are largely prohibited by the wto trim agreement. these measures require the location of vehicle manufacturers in russia (which results in discriminatory treatment for imported vehicle parts and components and a restriction on imports) and link them to special investment privileges for the import of automotive components (reduction or abolition of import duties). the maintenance of these mechanisms is detrimental to the eu and russia. in order to encourage the growth of trade in motor vehicles and their components between the eu and russia, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - this agreement with russia is a positive one and i voted for it. i hope, however, that these events will help the european commission to understand that the union will have to think about protecting its own industrial system at least to the same extent as our international partners are doing. this agreement is positive, but it does not remove the difficulties which our companies in this sector have encountered and still encounter in order to continue to produce in europe. the european commission must listen to their needs and defend the work of the 27 member states of the union.
in writing. the russian government has been trying for several years to attract foreign manufacturers of cars and their components to its territory in order to compensate for the decline of its domestic automotive industry and to provide jobs for the industry's workforce. russia is a fast-growing market for the sale of cars and easier access would be very beneficial for european union producers: russia currently accounts for only 8% of total exports of these products. i am voting in favour of the agreement with the russian federation on this matter. of components for motor vehicles. the whole of the european union's automobile industry, which represents 2.3 million jobs in vehicle manufacturing and 10.3 million indirect jobs, will benefit from this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs vaidere's recommendation because this agreement will ensure the reduction of the duties in force so far by the russian federation on timber exports. european companies in the sector will benefit from this agreement, although russia may continue to apply high rates for certain types of wood.
in writing. − in the context of its wto accession process, the russian federation has agreed to reduce its current export duties on raw materials, including wood products. for certain types of wood, in particular certain species of conifers, russia has introduced tariff quotas. a specific part of the quotas was allocated to exports to the eu. in order to avoid a repeat of the successive increases in the export duties on wood applied by russia and to be able to manage the provisions relating to the application of the tariff quotas, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the issue of raw materials is one of the most sensitive. the union is right to deal with russia, one of the largest holders of natural raw materials, to ensure a source of vital importance for our industry. the same kind of agreements should also be concluded with countries like china. i voted in favour of the vaidere report.
in writing. − in the context of its accession to the world trade organisation, the russian federation has committed itself to gradually reducing or eliminating its current export duties on a list of raw materials. the undertakings concerning the export duty rates have been included in the list of concessions and commitments for goods from russia. the commission has also received comments from the russian authorities. the list contained in the agreement in question is therefore very long and includes very important raw materials. these are raw materials not included in the list of concessions and commitments on the goods referred to above, for which russia holds more than 10% of world production or exports or in which the european union has a substantial interest. with these comments on the subject i am voting in favour of the agreement to introduce or increase tariffs on raw materials.
in writing. − i am against this agreement and therefore i support this resolution. i believe the main problem of this text is its vagueness and the uncertainty over its interpretation. as a member of the european parliament i have the duty to guarantee adequate protection for citizens’ rights. i totally agree on the need for an international agreement to step up the fight against counterfeit products. the debate is whether acta is the right vehicle to do that. and my answer is not. i also would like to stress that the presumed primary beneficiaries of the agreement, the artistic communities and software creators, seem particularly divided on the potential benefits of the agreement. in addition we must condemn the total lack of transparency throughout the negotiations on acta. the commission could have done a lot more to keep the parliament informed about ongoing negotiations and this mistake is for us unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted against the acta agreement for several reasons: first of all, i do not think it is an effective solution to counterfeiting because the contracting countries as a whole account for only 5% of the world's counterfeiting, and it will not affect emerging economic powers such as brazil, russia, india and china, where counterfeiting is very important. secondly, there is no reference to geographical indications and therefore it does not protect the italian and european quality agri-food sector, and therefore it does not bring any benefit to 'made in italy'. these are the main considerations which led me not to support the acta trade agreement in plenary.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta). my abstention is based on the fact that the european court of justice, after the european commission's request to give an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement with the eu treaties and the fundamental rights of citizens, has not yet ruled. it will take 14 to 20 months before the court gives its opinion. i think it is important that a body like the court of justice has a say in matters with implications for workers' rights and international trade. i would, however, argue that the adoption of this type of agreement can be important in ensuring innovation, creativity and the protection of workers in europe. the marketing of counterfeit medicines or fake fashion products is unacceptable, as they create disadvantages and unfair competition for companies involved in the sector and are dangerous for the safety of citizens, as they are often produced with materials and working techniques that do not meet european safety standards.
in writing. - the fight against commercial counterfeiting and computer piracy is certainly a major challenge, but we must be very careful about how it is implemented and interpreted. firstly, i am puzzled that an agreement of this magnitude does not cover the countries where the most violations of trade rights and protections occur, namely china, india and pakistan. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal. acta has also raised serious concerns as a potential infringement of individual rights and freedoms and as a brake on free access to the internet. for all these reasons i therefore voted in favour of the report, rejecting the text of the agreement: i hope, however, that negotiations can be resumed in the near future to find a more common solution to combat the scourge of counterfeiting, without repeating the mistakes and shortcomings of acta.
in writing. - acta was to be an agreement capable of combating counterfeiting and piracy without restricting the freedoms of citizens, not just preventing unfair competition from industry and protecting intellectual property rights. unfortunately, the text which has been examined by the commission and parliament has not covered the issues which are of most concern to our country, namely the protection of protected designations of origin and geographical indications and the main counterfeiting countries china, brazil and india. the text was so inconsistent that the competent committees inta and itre themselves rejected it, just as a favourable report was rejected in the legal affairs committee and a report against it was approved in libe. it is clear that this measure, in such a negative situation, and which must be approved by both the member states of the union and third countries to be valid, could not have received a favourable vote in the chamber. i abstained because, although i believe that the anti-counterfeiting agreement is essential to protect our companies and farms, i believe that the text under discussion is detrimental to human freedoms and is not suitable for targeting the markets for counterfeit goods, not least because it does not cover categories of products such as agricultural products which i believe should be protected.
in writing. - my vote on acta was negative. one of the main culprits in this defeat for the union's credibility is commissioner de gucht. i think that he would do well to resign rather than insist on this agreement. the european parliament has repeatedly called for geographical indications to be included in acta, but commissioner de gucht has not been able to negotiate this with the counterparties. the doubts about the violation of fundamental rights are too serious to allow an agreement like this to be approved. the fight against counterfeiting requires specific instruments and above all the involvement of those countries, especially those in asia, which are the main producers of this enormous disaster for our companies.
in writing. the next reform of the common agricultural policy will be significant from an economic point of view and above all from the point of view of the development of european agriculture and the safeguarding of rural areas. giving farmers the possibility to receive direct payments also for the transitional year 2013 is a very important decision. i voted in favour of mr capoulas santos' report, even though the total abolition of tobacco aid raises the question of the areas concerned - like the one i come from, verona - with productive vocations linked to this cultivation.
in writing. − in view of the need to avoid market distortions due to the different ways of implementing the recent cap reforms in different member states, it is necessary to offer the new member states the possibility to grant transitional national aid in 2013 as direct payments are introduced in a uniform manner in all member states. in order to set net ceilings for direct payments for the calendar year 2013, in order to ensure continuity in the levels of payments while taking into account the entry of new member states into the scheme and the cessation of voluntary modulation, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the report by mr luis manuel capoulas santos on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 73/2009 as regards the application of direct payments to farmers for 2013 and proposing to rebalance national allocations between 'old' and 'new' eu countries was voted on in plenary today. for the former, the adjustment rate in 2013 would be 0% for amounts between eur 5 000 and eur 300 000 and 4% for amounts above eur 300 000. the level of compulsory modulation for the latter would remain the same as in 2012, at 10% for amounts between eur 5 000 and eur 300 000 and 14% for amounts above eur 300 000. the draft amends the total amount of direct payments that each state may pay in 2013: for the eu-15 member states, with some exceptions, the value of the net ceiling in 2013 would be the same as in 2012, adjusted to take account of the estimated grubbing-up of vineyards in that year; for eu-10 countries, the value of the net ceiling in 2013 shall be adjusted to the amounts committed to finance the specific support.
in writing. − the current rules for the system of direct payments to farmers should be replaced by the reform proposals for the future cap for the period 2014-2020. this proposal instead addresses the financial provisions for the transitional year, 2013. the main purpose is to set the net ceilings for direct payments for 2013, providing for a similar adjustment mechanism to that of modulation. continuity in payment levels is needed, taking into account the progressivity of direct payments in the new member states and the end of voluntary modulation. during the first and only trilogue, the council accepted the position which my colleagues and i wanted to put forward as a parliament. the council has asked for a new article to be added to the legal base, which was approved by the european parliament's legal affairs committee. i believe that the rules for direct payments for 2013 will fill a time gap in a valid way and that is why i voted in favour. this period will prepare farmers for the new cap rules after 2014.
in writing. − the current rules for the system of direct payments to farmers should be replaced by the cap reform proposals for the period 2014-2020. the text by mr capoulas santos, for which i voted in favour, concerns the amendments to regulation no 73 of 2009 on the levels of reduction to be applied to direct payments to farmers for 2013, while at the same time rebalancing the natural resources between the old member states and those that have recently joined the union.
in writing. - i am extremely pleased that my report has been adopted by a large majority, as this is an important sign of the cohesion of the whole parliament in view of the forthcoming trilogue on 9 july. we have emphasized the need for a real and concrete commitment on the part of the council, another branch of the budgetary authority, by allocating all the resources that will prove necessary to complete the european projects and actions approved in recent years and to invest in the growth and development of europe. our demands are in line with the statements made in recent days at the important summit in brussels on 28 and 29 june, where the heads of state and government made it clear that the solution to the crisis is more europe and not less europe. we want to continue to work in this direction, calling on the council, with the support of the commission, not to freeze europe but, on the contrary, to invest in it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget for 2013 as i fully share the priorities that the report identifies for the 2013 budget, in particular the focus on small and medium-sized enterprises and youth employment as engines for boosting growth. i believe, however, that in order to give substance to the priorities identified and to enable the member states to benefit from the european added value, a level of commitment beyond the 2% proposed in the draft budget is necessary. this increase is simply an adjustment to the level of inflation and does not take account of the need for growth at a time of obvious difficulties. for this reason, i also think it is essential that the council does not compromise the strength of the 2013 budget but supports the payment needs through an amending budget, without deferring them to the 2013 budget as happened last year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mandate for the trilogue on the 2013 budget: i think that the right priorities have been set, such as the need to provide the resources and instruments needed to honour the commitments and hence the payments already undertaken under previous agreements and now to be settled. this can certainly be a good thing for the economy, and in particular for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are in dire need of these funds. the need to minimise the bureaucratic and administrative expenditure of the european union has also been rightly stressed, and in this sense the renewed call for a single seat for the european parliament should also be welcomed. a budget of the union, however sober and responsible, can help in a difficult situation such as the present one: it is up to those who receive the funds to make the best use of them, and not to do as has unfortunately happened too many times in the past. i am referring in particular to the regions of southern italy, which have a chronic lack of capacity to absorb these funds, which often end up in fraud to the detriment of the eu, as in the recent case of salerno-reggio calabria.
in writing. - i congratulate mr la via on his work. in approving this report, having regard to the draft budget for the financial year 2013 adopted by the commission on 25 april 2012 (sec(2012) 270), and article 314 tfeu, parliament calls for the budget to focus on both growth and employment and for the european parliament to have a single seat. the latter in particular fits perfectly into the context of the current austerity policies, as the eu needs to show responsibility and take concrete and immediate steps to establish a single seat for parliament in order to cut costs. finally, parliament called on the governments of the member states which had doubts about the commission's expenditure estimates to overcome them in order to avoid any setbacks in the negotiations.
in writing. − today's vote underlines how the european parliament wants to make a full commitment to boosting growth in 2013 and how this must be achieved by fighting unemployment. it is necessary that all the states which have doubts about the estimates of expenditure presented by the commission should immediately ask for explanations in this regard, in order to avoid difficulties later on in the negotiations. with eur 151 million in commitment appropriations and eur 138 million in payment appropriations, a concrete basis has been created for the european economy to be able to intervene effectively, despite the crisis affecting the national governments and their budgets.
in writing. − the mandate for the trilogue contains an assessment of the draft budget, adopted by the commission on 25 april, and sets out parliament's positions for the trilogue of 9 july and for the next eu budget negotiations, starting in autumn 2013. with a level of payment appropriations that is 6.8% higher than in the 2012 budget, i believe that the draft budget represents a positive step towards a realistic budget and a responsible budgetary exercise, but with room for improvement still needed, particularly in the areas of cohesion and agriculture to avoid a lack of funds in 2013. as regards commitments, however, there is some concern that the proposed increase (+ 2%) would virtually freeze commitments at eu level by a projected inflation rate which would not allow priorities at eu level to be clearly identified.
in writing. the report for which i voted in favour today concerns the opening of the second stage of the budgetary procedure and defines parliament's position in view of the next trilogue scheduled for july. the main objective for the 2013 budget is to defend an adequate level of resources to meet the commitments made in previous years, while ensuring continuity of investment to support the competitiveness of european businesses at a time of severe economic crisis.
in writing. - the important and balanced own-initiative report by mrs paulsen. it is significant that he obtained a large majority of the votes in the chamber. equally important is the fact that the principle of equivalence of rules for imports from third countries, with stricter controls on animals, will be safeguarded. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of animal by-products.
in writing. − ensuring the protection and welfare of animals is part of our practices to improve the sustainability of our agricultural and food production. this report sets out a strategy for the three-year period 2012-2014 with the clear aim of strengthening the protection of animals and, consequently, of consumers. animal welfare is a complex and multifaceted issue with implications for policies in individual member states and at international level. the decisions we take in this area are therefore never merely negotiated and require a high degree of deliberation. i am also convinced that greater protection of animal health is also necessary for the protection of the consumer and the environment. however, i think it is appropriate to stress that while it is good that animal welfare is protected, it is also necessary to avoid that excessive legislation on this matter becomes a further obstacle to activities in the agri-food sector.
in writing. - i support the commission's proposal for a european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015. in fact, i believe that high and controlled animal welfare is a fundamental pillar of sustainable development and that it is essential to protect animal health as well as human health. the proposal is crucial to increasing productivity and competitiveness in the primary sector. the new framework law provides the conditions for the creation of a clear and shared european network for the joint coordination of animal welfare. this will help to increase competitiveness both in the internal market and in trade with third countries, as well as to increase product quality and safety. i also think it is very important that the new proposals on the rights of farm animals should also have the right to good food, medical care and living conditions that are not stressful and forced.
in writing. - i wanted to give my support to this report on the european strategy to support animal welfare. among the stated objectives are, in fact, some issues to which i am particularly sensitive: i am referring, for example, to a serious campaign to combat and prevent straying, through concrete and effective measures which protect the animals themselves in the first place and which also limit the risks to the human population. another important point concerns the call for non-stunning slaughter, typical of some religious rituals, such as the preparation of halal islamic meat: it is a pointless barbarity, which cannot be accepted on the basis of a simple traditional religious prescription, which is far removed from our culture and civilization. a european regulatory framework can certainly be useful in establishing common rules and bases for respecting and protecting animal welfare, without this of course having to mean imposing absurd rules which may penalize, for example, those who produce or trade in this area.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to further improve animal welfare in the european union, despite the fact that animal welfare problems persist in several member states. europe needs a comprehensive approach and a comprehensive legislative framework on animal welfare to maximise policy coherence between member states. the new strategy also draws on experience gained in this field and on recent scientific and technological developments. in voting for this report, i support europe's desire to reconcile economic realities with animal welfare.
in writing. − we welcome the commission's communication on the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals which we have helped to improve. high animal welfare is part of sustainable development and is therefore a key element in defending the health of citizens, productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe. however, we must ensure a new uniform and harmonised approach in all member states where there is still a lack of compliance with certain national animal welfare legislation: we note the continued abuse of the derogations granted for the slaughter of animals without stunning for religious or ritual reasons, turning a blind eye to the unnecessary suffering and confusion created for consumers; we are not going to allow the extermination of stray animals in some member states through urban cleaning policies, neglecting the state's responsibility for abandoned animals, including stray animals. we allow the establishment of kennels without permits and controls on staff and facilities. we believe that a framework law is essential to harmonize national legislation on animal welfare by requiring the member states to report annually on the implementation of european legislation, thus enabling the commission to take effective action if the obligations are not respected. only then will we have a fairer world for them too.
in writing. - the report on the protection of animal welfare, although it does not deal with the problem of reducing animal transport to 8 hours, a subject for which i have campaigned as it will be dealt with in a separate document later, is overall balanced and therefore my vote was in favour. particular attention was paid to the abuse of derogations to allow for the slaughter of animals without stunning them in the eu, which i consider unacceptable in civilised countries, and to the note calling on the european commission to speed up the assessment of the labelling of meat from these animals. there are also calls on the european commission to improve animal welfare in farms and to adopt good animal husbandry practices, bearing in mind that a better quality of life for the animal often also leads to a better quality of the product that ends up on the tables of consumers. classical examples are cattle grazed instead of kept in pens or laying hens reared on land or in battery farms. i also agree with the passage on the search for alternatives to animal testing, as it is not an indispensable technique and is more expensive.
in writing. − high animal welfare is part of sustainable development and is essential to protect animal health, public health and the productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe. however, the complexity of european and national animal welfare rules and the lack of information on them create legal uncertainty, while the lack of compliance and 'legal targets' distorts competition. a new approach to animal welfare is therefore needed, one that is based on science and proven experience gained over the years and in which the rules are easily understandable and controllable. an essential factor in achieving a uniform level of animal welfare in the european union is the provision of accurate, practical and understandable training, information and guidance to those who deal with animals on a daily basis. the vote underlines the need for a european framework law on animal welfare. the concepts underlying this law will be clarity, simplification and practical applicability, based on a scientific basis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the establishment of a new european union legal framework for the protection of domestic and stray animals. the resolution seeks to define new rules for the identification and registration of animals and to include strategies for the management of stray animals, including vaccination and castration programmes, measures to promote responsible ownership, a ban on unauthorised kennels and shelters and a ban on the killing of stray animals without medical advice. i also welcome the proposal to set up school programmes for information and education on animal welfare to raise public awareness of the issue. i also welcome the proposal to impose severe sanctions on any member state which does not comply with the rules contained in the new proposal.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament has stressed that animal welfare rules must be strictly enforced, with stricter penalties for offenders: this is the only way to protect human health by preventing the spread of animal diseases and antimicrobial resistance. the current national regulations on this matter must be consolidated in a single european text, which will also protect farm and domestic animals, as well as stray dogs and cats, which are not currently protected by any european law.
in writing. − there is currently no european union legislation on the protection of pets and stray animals, despite the estimated number of pets in europe of over 100 million. often these animals are the victims of ill-treatment and cruelty in many member states and all too often petitioners refer mainly to the member states of southern and eastern europe. the vote aims to define a legal framework for the protection of pets and stray animals. it is therefore necessary to ratify the european convention for the protection of pet animals and to transpose its provisions into national legal systems. measures are needed such as rules on the identification and registration of animals, the prohibition of unauthorised kennels and shelters, as well as strategies for the management of stray animals, including vaccination and castration programmes, and measures to promote responsible ownership.
in writing. − the resolution on the establishment of an eu legal framework for the protection of domestic and stray animals recalls that the european union is founded on the sharing of different principles and values. millions of europeans attach a special emotional value to animals, especially pets such as dogs and cats. there are more than 100 million of these pets in europe, but despite the scale of the phenomenon, the union has not yet developed a european framework legislation to protect our pet friends and stray pets. the european parliament, by voting today, is giving voice to thousands of european citizens and is strongly calling for the union to establish a european legal framework to protect our animal friends, including: • rules for the identification and registration of animals; • stray animal management strategies, including vaccination and sterilisation programmes; • measures to promote responsible ownership; • prohibition of unauthorised kennels and shelters; • prohibition of killing stray animals without medical indication; • school programmes for information and education on animal welfare; • strict sanctions against any member state which does not comply with the rules.
in writing. - this 25th summit has proved to be another failure, and for italy, too, absolutely nothing has changed. now you can understand why prime minister monti said he did not want to apply for the anti-spread shield for our country: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking system is not under threat. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december called for the adoption of a new european law on the protection of the financial interests of the union. moreover, if the agreement on the anti-spread shield, as the council and the commission have reiterated in this house, had indeed been reached unanimously, i wonder why the netherlands and finland have backed down: we will now have to carefully weigh the consequences of this choice. the leaders of the european institutions are unable to answer these questions, despite the loud demands for clarification made by the house. on the contrary, they are well advised to postpone the details of what has been agreed so far until future bilateral meetings and eurogroup meetings, when it will probably be too late.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 28 and 29 june 2012 because i welcome the decisions taken, both in the short and long term, to strengthen our economic and monetary union. in particular, i welcome the short-term interventions, which have been designed to ensure greater financial stability and to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereign debts. a 'single supervisory mechanism' has been established which, through the esm and the ecb's participation, can directly finance banks. the so-called 'anti-spread shield' also provides for the use of the state-saving fund for the most virtuous countries in order to reassure the markets and lower the level of interest rates. the council's decisions on growth and employment are welcome in the long term. this involves the mobilisation of eur 120 billion for new investment and a eur 10 billion increase in the capital of the european investment bank. to this end, the next multiannual financial framework will have to be consistent with the objectives of growth and employment. however, much remains to be done in the completion of economic and monetary union.
in writing. the european council has drawn up a four-point platform for the relaunch of the euro. first, the spread shield will allow european funds from the esf and the esm to be used more flexibly to buy government bonds on the primary and secondary markets. the aim is to achieve a banking union, in which banking supervision will be transferred to the european central bank, and an economic union: the council of the european union will present a road map to strengthen economic integration between the member states and create a budgetary union by the end of the year. the last aspect concerns growth with a 120 billion plan based on a recapitalisation of the eib, new project bonds, a reorientation of the structural funds and a more efficient use of the community budget. this ambitious programme calls for a rapid revival of the euro and the european economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr klute's report because i agree with the proposal to guarantee access to basic banking services to all european citizens residing in the member states. the right to open and use a basic payment account with a bank in a member state should be protected and such a basic payment account should be offered free of charge or at an affordable price to all categories of european consumers.
in writing. − with this report we ask the european commission to provide a comprehensive picture of the accessibility of basic banking services to european citizens. such a mapping is necessary in order to be able to take the necessary actions to implement these services. basic banking services today serve as a basic requirement for all citizens of the union and also serve as a backdrop for the social fabric of a country. access to banking services is the key to accessing health services, benefiting from the internal market and accessing employment channels. the spread and extension of basic banking services to as many citizens of the european union as possible is the impetus we are giving to the commission, formalising the request to take concrete and timely action in this area.
in writing. − access to basic payment services is one of the prerequisites for european consumers to benefit from the internal market, free movement, money transfers and the purchase of goods and services without excessive transaction costs. access to basic paid services is increasingly a key prerequisite for social inclusion in terms of access to employment, healthcare and housing. general economic and social development contributes to a high penetration of bank accounts: the commission has also been able to identify the most appropriate measures to be taken to ensure that the services provided by the public authorities are not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. given that not all member states have taken the appropriate steps required by the commission's recommendation on access to a basic payment account, and that in too many member states providers are still not legally obliged to offer basic payment services, we ask the commission to present a detailed assessment of the situation in all member states and to submit a proposal for a directive guaranteeing access to basic payment services for all consumers legally resident in the union.
in writing. - access to basic banking services has become an essential part of every citizen's life and there must be guarantees that this principle is respected. the report adopted calls for european citizens to be given the opportunity to benefit, free of charge or at reasonable cost, from tools such as access to a basic current account and standard payment services. it is right that banks should make this service available to the widest possible range of people, who may not be able to afford the often very high figures associated with the management of a current account. however, there must also be the necessary guarantees, and that is why it seemed to me a risky and perhaps propaganda move to extend this possibility to homeless people: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this area.
in writing. − whereas access to basic payment services is one of the prerequisites for consumers to benefit from the internal market in this case from free movement, transfers of funds and the purchase of goods and services without excessive costs for the execution of transactions, whereas basic payment services are essential for consumers to reap the benefits of electronic commerce, whereas, in particular, access to basic payment services is increasingly a key prerequisite for social inclusion in terms of access to employment, healthcare and housing, in order to ensure access to payment services for all consumers legally resident in the eu, i express my vote in favour of the proposal, as well as the recommendations contained in the proposal.
in writing. - today at the strasbourg plenary session we voted on the report by mr klute. the non-legislative resolution voted today argues that basic banking services should be a right for the 10% of eu citizens who currently do not have it and urged the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal by january next year to address this financial exclusion. community-wide regulation is necessary because simple recommendations from the commission have had the desired effect in only a few countries and banks have a natural tendency to target only those customers who offer opportunities for profit. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial institutions are able to comply with the obligations of the treaty and the treaty on european union. the basic account would allow a person to carry out all the main payment transactions, such as crediting income or other benefits, paying utilities or taxes, purchasing goods and services, making cash withdrawals and printing account statements.
in writing. − the european commission needs to come forward as soon as possible with a legislative proposal that makes basic banking services a right for european citizens. the basic current account must enable all the main operations to be carried out: from the accreditation of income to the payment of utilities or taxes, from the purchase of goods and services to the withdrawal of cash. this opportunity must be given to everyone, including the homeless, students, low-income people and migrant workers, because banks must have a responsibility to society and not be always and only profit-oriented.
in writing. − the smooth functioning of the internal market and the development of a modern social market economy depend on the provision of affordable and easily accessible basic payment services on a universal scale by the social responsibility of the banking sector. access to basic payment services is also one of the prerequisites for consumers to benefit from the internal market, the free movement and transfer of funds and the purchase of goods and services without excessive transaction costs. on average, basic payment services cost between eur 185 and eur 365 per consumer per year. the vote calls on the commission to present a detailed assessment of the situation in all member states by september 2012 and to submit a proposal for a directive guaranteeing access to basic payment services for all consumers legally resident in the union by 2013.
in writing. − it is now established that the smooth functioning of the internal market and the development of a modern social market economy depend, inter alia, on the provision of basic payment services which are affordable and easily accessible to all: in this way, european consumers can benefit from the internal market, in particular from free movement, transfers of funds and the purchase of goods and services without excessive transaction costs. i therefore expressed my support for mr klute's text, which calls on the european institutions to take action to ensure that the greatest possible number of citizens of the union have access to basic banking services.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am of course in full support of this pilot phase of project bonds, because the principle of using european resources, drawing on the experience of the eib, to create this leverage effect in order to realise quality projects of european interest is urgent and valid at the present time. what doesn't work: the budget for this pilot project, 230 million, is very small, especially the 10 million for the energy sector and the 20 million for telecommunications, which seems to be a symbolic allocation. we must give this instrument a serious budget for the future. what's really missing? we must have the courage to lead the economic recovery from here, from the european union. the courage to take the initiative of direct bond issuance by the union in a ppp system, to participate directly in the infrastructure investments which we consider to be a priority and to pull the economy out of the rut into which it has fallen, is lacking. i am not referring to the past, to the mutualisation of debts and so on, but to future development, from which we must start again together. this is the only way to achieve growth now, to create the jobs and competitiveness we deserve.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the proposal to set up project bonds to finance the development of the european infrastructure network. the amount of eur 230 million is rather low compared with the actual needs, but it must be borne in mind that this is an experimental phase, and considering the chronic shortage of resources, the result achieved seems to me to be a good compromise. the funds will be used to finance up to a dozen projects, but this is a useful exercise to see if this instrument can be a steering wheel to attract the investment needed to improve transport, energy networks and telecommunications in europe. i hope, however, that the projects which will benefit from this new initiative will be carefully selected and that, above all, the effectiveness of these proposals will be carefully evaluated. we cannot afford to invest public money in operations which are dangerous and whose return is uncertain.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the launch of project bonds is an important first step in the growth pact. this is a pilot project, perhaps accompanied by excessive caution and a budget that is all too symbolic, less than 5 billion euro for 27 member states, but it is nevertheless an appreciable sign of concreteness, it is an opening towards new instruments to raise private funds to be used in strategic infrastructure investments, also to make the european economy competitive and create new jobs. i agree with those who have called for rigorous evaluations, high quality and reliability of projects, and measurable results, but after the first experimental phase we are now open to more ambitious projects, which will allow a genuine and strategic phase of development and growth in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we heard this morning that the cypriot president is counting on the construction of networks, both energy and telecommunications networks and transport networks, but the construction of these networks requires a lot of resources. the funds allocated today are not enough! networking is worthwhile if done in a cost-effective way, to give a concrete idea of compatible growth and on the other hand to make this part of the world attractive for large investments. i am therefore a tool for sustainable growth on the one hand, and for the development of work on the other. the first is that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. on the other hand, no private investor will invest unless he sees an extraordinary effort, especially on the part of the states and the public sector. we have this opportunity and this task which i consider to be crucial in relation to development policies.
president of the european investment bank. − mr president, honourable members, i should like to thank you for the broad consensus and support you gave to this initiative and also to our bank which will play an important role in the implementation of this initiative. it is going to be a very ambitious project and the work is going to start now. we have to deal with this with diligence and resolve at the same time, and we have to be ready to subject the outcome of all this to an objective test and to scrutiny and evaluation. i can assure you that the bank is going to be ready to participate in this critical and honest review of what has been achieved within a relatively short period of time. we do not want to discredit this new instrument; we want it to be a success. that means that we have to play with open cards and with very precise and clear criteria that will be the benchmark for the evaluation of success of this instrument. one of the advantages of the european investment bank is that it is not only a bank with lots of highly-qualified capital market personnel, but it is also a bank which can do its work on the basis of deep knowledge and expertise in engineering and science. this is what is needed here in many cases, because if we want to be loyal to our principles it is necessary to test the submitted projects critically in view of technology and technical viability and also from the financial point of view. this is what the eib is going to guarantee in this process. then we will come back and report to you. herr turmes hat natürlich recht, wenn er sagt, unter der project-1-garantie ist die finanzierung von energieproduktion jetzt so nicht möglich. das bedauere ich zum teil auch. wir müssen dann darüber reden, ob in zukunft die programmierung von strukturfondsmitteln und anderen eu-fonds leichter umorganisiert werden kann, um schneller handeln zu können. es wäre z. b. gut, wenn wir jetzt bei manchen aktivitäten, die wir in griechenland entfalten, schneller handeln könnten. aber das ist eine angelegenheit, die wir im zusammenwirken von parlament, rat und kommission gemeinsam mit der bank in angriff nehmen müssen. jedenfalls wird die bank nach wie vor auf dem gebiet der windenergie in der nordsee und in der ostsee und an vielen anderen stellen sehr aktiv sein und bleiben, da lassen wir uns von niemandem übertreffen. letzter punkt: ein wort zu risiko. meine sehr verehrten damen und herren! mr president, under the project bonds initiative the eib will guarantee only up to 20% of the senior debt. we will not remove the risk from equity. the private sector that has equity will pay a market premium for credit enhancement. this is, therefore, very important, because credit enhancement is not a 100% guarantee for the private sector. private-sector risk remains the best means of ensuring that the projects selected are economically and financially sound. so eib due diligence and independent decision-taking is going to be a key part of the success story of the project bond initiative.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to join president hoyer and thank you for a very substantive and constructive debate. i would also like to thank you for your very strong support for the europe 2020 project bond initiative, the basic idea of which is to stimulate private investment through public risk-sharing investment by the commission and the eib, to be used for large-scale investment in infrastructure. it is important to get concrete on this once it has been adopted. the commission and the eib will sign a cooperation agreement as soon as possible after the final adoption of the proposal by the council in july. as regards concrete projects, my understanding is that the eib is already receiving expressions of interest and has started assessing a number of potential projects in the three sectors – transport, energy and communications – in order to start seeing signatures soon for these projects. of course we know that the pilot phase has a budget of only eur 230 million. this means that we must use this pilot phase in order to make the case for increased funding on investment and growth in the next multifinancial framework for communication and transport, for energy, security and green growth. indeed this pilot phase must pave the way for a reinforced contribution from the eu budget as well for these important objectives. we regard the project bonds as an integral part of the connecting europe facility from 2014 onwards, which is an important example of the focus on growth and investment in the next multifinancial framework. the commitments made by eu member states and the union as a whole to address the current crisis and to mobilise growth and jobs are very substantial. they have to be, because the well-being of every european citizen depends on the well-being of europe as a whole. in the middle of difficult national debates on the necessary policy measures, it is of crucial importance that we can demonstrate the benefits of europe in very concrete terms to our citizens and do so as soon as possible. this is a further reason why the project bond initiative plays an important part in our overall european growth agenda.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, with full respect to some dissenting voices, i believe that this is one of these rare moments where we have an exceptionally broad consensus on an innovative idea. i would like to thank you all for this very constructive debate. some have said that the figure of eur 230 million is rather low, but, as i said at the outset, this figure is intended to act as a lever for many larger volumes of investment in the future. several of you have underlined the need to carefully choose the projects, and i very much agree. some have also said that we need to ensure long-term added-value at the european level. i believe that both the president of the eib and commissioner rehn have provided the necessary reassurances in this regard. i agree also with those who emphasised the importance of the evaluations. now, of course, the next steps will be key. once parliament and the council have approved the text, we will be able to launch the implementation of the pilot phase. we want to see projects being financed as soon as possible and to assess how the initiative is received by market participants. it will also be important that the commission and the eib maintain close dialogue, both with the european parliament and the council at this early stage, and that lessons from the pilot phase are properly taken into account for the second phase.
in writing. the european internal market needs a transport and energy infrastructure network that is efficient and widespread in order to fulfil its potential. the report focuses on bond lending, which the european commission has designed to attract more private investment from 2014 onwards, and in particular on the pilot phase in 2012-13 to test its effectiveness and test the market. in my view, all the necessary control and management mechanisms should be activated to ensure that the pilot phase is successfully launched as soon as possible. moreover, in the face of a need of over eur 1,500 billion for infrastructure construction (for the period 2010-2020) and an investment by member states of between 0,5% and 2% of gdp, the volume of appropriations needs to be considerably increased and existing and planned sources of funding supplemented. in this context, i believe that eur 230 million is objectively insufficient to implement projects with medium- to long-term returns. finally, member states should initiate, complete or implement reforms to encourage private investment, starting with the simplification and reduction of red tape.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 june, with the council's decision to give the member states back the possibility of reintroducing border controls, a new europe was born, a europe that was courageous in responding to the desire of its citizens for greater security, inspired at last by a more mature interpretation of the concept of solidarity, which was linked to the defence of the rights of its peoples first and foremost. i would like to say to president schulz, even though he is not here, that this historic decision is not an interinstitutional accident, but a respect for the will of the people and not for that euro-bureaucracy which for years has pretended not to understand what is really happening outside the glass building. no imaginary influx of illegal immigrants, mr president schulz, but an increase in illegal immigrants measured by frontex by 35% in 2011. i only regret that the scenes of political hysteria consummated in this house last plenary session have robbed time from more useful and constructive activity, from asking ourselves why it was not we but the member states who defended the interests of our citizens. if parliament does not find its own soul and the courage to go against the goodwill and the sterile obviousness on which it has been floating for too long, it will continue to be a herd rather than a leader in the construction of the european project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the new cypriot presidency, to which we wish a good job, today's speech has already made it very clear that there is a gap between the council's position, which considers the schengen question we are discussing today to be a mere legal question, and the commission's clear and consistent position, which suggests that we should return to the codecision procedure as soon as possible. the council has indeed taken the necessary steps on the days of 6 and 7 june just past and we hope that the council will recall the sense of common responsibility in this particular case. schengen is a heritage of civilisation, a real conquest and we will also say indispensable: the european union has a long history of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe, and it is not surprising that the european union has been able to play a leading role in the development of these countries. it is not enough to invoke the supposed problem of the safety of citizens to call into question what remains a very valuable achievement. schengen, like the single market, is one of the few achievements of this european union which today can be said to have at least a part of european citizenship. we need more cooperation, more police and judicial cooperation, responsibility, solidarity, the european parliament wants an open and integrated europe, where each actor plays his full part, and this is the further challenge we want to achieve with the decisive support of the commission and with a council that regains the solidarity of relations with the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, schengen is a heritage of europe. the breaking down of barriers between member states was the first sign of something new being created: the european union is not a political union, but a political union. that is why it is strange to have this debate today, because it seems that we have gone backwards, that we are abandoning the foundations of our beautiful union. if schengen is lost, the european union is lost, but if schengen is so important, it must be protected, as is done with what is considered precious. it must be protected from a council which thinks it is overstepping the prerogatives of parliament, but it must also be protected from what may call into question schengen itself; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of immigration. we cannot afford that and i thank commissioner malmström for all the work and cooperation he will put into this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the choice made by the council on 7 june is not only a matter of internal european policy, but, as one can imagine, it also has an impact outside europe. everyone here has said that the free movement of persons is one of the greatest european achievements in a europe which knows how to recognize itself. on the contrary, its limitation represents and describes in reality a sense of distrust that is being distilled among european countries, in european public opinion and that risks destroying the european project. we have long called for innovative and modern european governance of the migration issue. what you're doing is actually renationalizing immigration policy. let us take a step back from rights and freedoms, but there is a second aspect on which these choices risk having a negative impact and show a certain schizophrenia of european action in its various policies. we have agreed that one of the pillars of the new neighbourhood policy is mobility, a central element of the new european approach, for example towards a changing area such as the mediterranean. what message are we sending to these countries, if not that of distrust and lack of credibility?
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, i am concerned about what is happening in syria, because the conflict is continuing and the loss of life is increasing. neither side can prevail militarily and the only solution can be a political one, shared by the government and the opposition. europe must act in this direction. the dangers to be avoided are the prevalence of islamic extremism or a balkanization of the country due to the contrast between the different ethnic and religious components. i hope that europe will take a serious and concrete stand - and as you have heard, it is working - and i hope that it will achieve good results in bringing an end to these deaths, civilian and military, and so on.
in writing. with the geneva agreement, russia also accepts the need for a compromise based on a transition process agreed by government and rebels and in which the opposition and assad's regime will have to share power. at this point it is important to foster opposition unity on a political platform shared on at least some key points. we must avoid the balkanization of the conflict and its degeneration into a clash between ethnic or religious groups. the future must lead to a secular, democratic and tolerant syrian society. unfortunately, the latest news reports of attacks on the christian community reinforce the fear of possible persecution by a new theocratic and fundamentalist islamic regime in syria. europe must make every effort to ensure that what is happening in egypt with the coptic christian community or in libya between the different clans also happens in syria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that the official announcement of the election of morsi, leader of the justice and freedom party, has finally closed the first phase of the egyptian political affair, and this was not at all a foregone conclusion, since the eve, the days before the results were announced, were shaken by two controversial judgments of the constitutional court. the first was the supreme judicial body declaring the political isolation law that declared shafiq's candidacy for the presidential election unconstitutional, and the second was the electoral law for the parliamentary elections, which dissolved the parliament and could have repercussions on the constituent assembly. complicating matters further are the amendments to the constitutional declaration introduced by the supreme council of the armed forces that severely weaken the powers of the president and abolish the autonomous legislative power until a new constitution is approved. in his first speech as president, morsi, and we welcome this, sent a message of unity and reconciliation, trying to reassure the members of egyptian society. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's external relations were not compromised. we will now see if words follow deeds, but in any case, after a period of extreme uncertainty and instability, the election of the new president could finally open a new phase that could on the one hand make egypt move swiftly towards the expansion of democracy and rights and on the other hand be able to start efforts to restart the economic system and remedy the ongoing financial crisis. in this context, the role of the european union must be made clearer and more visible, including through the eu-egypt task force. europe must be ready to work with the new president to strengthen bilateral relations, to support and bring to a successful conclusion the process of democratic transition and to overcome the economic and financial crises that could threaten the stability of the country.
i am sorry to disagree with your optimism, but i would call it rio -20 because we are backwards by some 20 years. no binding document, no definition of the future we want, but of course, without obama, without cameron, without mrs merkel - who alone account for more than 30% of global gross domestic product and were in fact in mexico at the g20 summit - who could decide? only concepts that are not dangerous for those who want business as usual, such as the green economy, masterfully interpreted as one of the tools available to achieve sustainable development and for the adoption of policies, but which should not be subject to rigid rules. the divisions, the inconsistencies, the injustices will therefore remain, and the separation between the economic, social and environmental spheres will continue to produce disasters. yes to acknowledging climate change, reducing natural disasters, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions, but nothing concrete yet, like, the house is burning and then we do nothing to put it out. other painful notes: the failure to transform unep into a genuine environmental agency and the failure to create a high commissioner for future generations. what are we gonna do? only the awareness that interdependence can help us to overcome the crisis we are in and therefore that a new governance is absolutely necessary will be able to move us forward. the commission could give the example: bring together the financial institutions responsible for much of the crisis we are living through and ask them to commit to a plan for growth, inclusion, equity and development that respects and protects the environment and people! parliament, for its part, can draw up a universal declaration of interdependence and democracy, which also guarantees the right of access to natural resources, and then ask the world's major states to join in, for once it would not be the young people or the banks or the big corporations, but the democratically elected representatives who would decide on the future we want!
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first just spend fifteen seconds to explain why commissioner potočnik and commissioner danamaki cannot be here at present. it is of course not because of lack of interest but because later today there is the formal takeover of the cyprus presidency, and that is being marked in cyprus where the presence of the whole commission is needed. so i am on duty today, but i can assure you that if mr potočnik had had any chance of staying he would very much have liked to do so. mr stevenson has just highlighted very clearly how complex this issue is, and i take the point that we should not lose sight of what is at stake here and also how long this matter has been with cites. that is also the reason why it is so difficult now to formulate a clear-cut position. as mr potočnik said, it is still being debated internally in the commission and between member states. having said that, it is a very timely debate which has been raised today and i thank the people behind the oral question for that, because it is also a reality that the final deadline for the cop is coming up next march so there is time to fine-tune the eu position on this. in finalising the position, several elements will have to be considered. the central role of the flag state has been pointed out very clearly here and i want to recall that this principle has not yet been agreed by all countries: currently each country goes its own way in cites. therefore the importance of reaching a common interpretation of the concept of introduction from the sea in cites is indispensable to make it operational for the safeguarding of marine species. these elements need to be put together in the best possible manner in developing the position of the european union ahead of the cop in march next year in full coherence with our efforts to combat illegal fishing. i, and also the experts here, will take care that all your considerations, all your concerns are brought back to both commissioners contributing to the internal deliberations on how to get a strong eu position prior to the march cop next year. so thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to listen to your input to this debate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the fact that yesterday it was officially announced that the higgs boson had been measured and actually detected. the particle that gives mass to all the others and their existence and this happened on european soil. science gives life to our earth, and civilization and prosperity, and for a moment we can aspire to be once again the capital of the world's science. utopia is the characteristic of man, who invents a utopia and wants to realize it, and it is because of science and this wonderful ambition of man that today a blind person, who has no eyes, can see with his hands or read a book with his ears, and a young south african boy who has no legs can run in the olympics in a sprinting competition. europe must be the home of science! this great event, which will open up new frontiers of knowledge, must be supported by europe to the full!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a formal follow-up to this written declaration, parliament has established the european day of craft ice cream to be celebrated throughout europe on 24 march. i thank my colleagues de castro, ortiz vilella, stadler and mölzer, who have supported the declaration with me, and also my colleagues scottà and cancian, who supported the tasting of the artisan ice cream in parliament, allowing everyone to taste it as well as to sign it. i would also like to thank the producers of the artglace federation, who represent the ice cream manufacturers of europe, and who have come all the way to strasbourg to offer their ice cream. supporting artisanal ice cream means promoting quality, authenticity and the best nutritional characteristics. the artisanal ice cream is made from fresh fruit, fresh milk and zero-mile products, and thus supports agriculture and the dairy sector by reducing co2 emissions. thank you to everyone who signed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the court of justice has expressed the need for a larger number of judges to cope with the overload of work, as a result of the continuing increase in the number of cases pending. despite the efforts made, the court has not been able to fulfil its judicial duties in time. i therefore voted in favour of the text by my colleague, which increases the number of judges by 12 from 27 to 39.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the civil service tribunal consists of seven judges, but its functioning can be seriously affected if one of its members becomes ill or is unable to perform his duties for a long period. in order to avoid the general court being prevented from exercising its judicial functions, the court of justice therefore submitted a proposal for a regulation which would allow, if necessary, the appointment of temporary judges. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal, convinced that it would be a reasonable solution to a practical problem which could impede european justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market cannot be fully exploited without modern and efficient infrastructure. the recent agreement on financial contribution will help to boost investment in european transport, energy and telecommunications networks. i therefore supported mrs farm's text, because i believe that the construction of new infrastructure can make a positive contribution to the revival of the european economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the changes taking place throughout the arab world make it all the more urgent that progress be made in the middle east peace process. the aspirations of the peoples of the region, the palestinians and the israelis, must be taken into account. it is an essential element for peace, stability and prosperity in the region. the rocket attacks from gaza, the construction of settlements, the evictions and demolitions of homes in east jerusalem, the deterioration of the living conditions of the palestinian population, especially women and children, the extremism of the settlers and their incitement in the west bank are all factors undermining the two-state solution. the settlement of the conflict is a fundamental interest of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i intend to vote in favour of the motion for a regulation tabled by mrs thein on the amendment of the statute of the court of justice of the european union, as i agree with the proposal by my colleague to amend the composition of the court of justice and to introduce changes to the procedures for the functioning of the court of justice. these actions will make the court a faster and more efficient instrument for ensuring better legal assistance for all eu citizens.
in writing. the vote will amend the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union. first, it is proposed to introduce the office of vice-president of the court of justice of the european union. this measure is necessary because the workload of its president has increased considerably over time and it would therefore be useful if, in the performance of his duties, he could be replaced or assisted in the future by a vice-president. moreover, for several years now, the imbalance between the cases dealt with by the court of first instance and the new proceedings brought has been increasingly marked and the number of cases not dealt with has been steadily increasing. at the end of 2010, there were 1 300 cases pending, while 527 cases had been dealt with during the year. the average duration of a procedure also increased from 20.9 to 27.2 months. that is why we need to hire 12 new judges.
in writing. - i intend to support the dossier on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on temporary judges of the civil service tribunal of the european union. i agree with mrs thein that it is appropriate to introduce temporary judges in the specialised courts in order not to prejudice the work of the court of first instance if one of the seven full members is absent for a long period. this amendment to the statute and annex i will not impose any burden on the member states.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, in which it calls on the council to take action to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the threat of a military coup. the court of first instance shall consist of seven judges and its functioning may be seriously affected if one of its members is unable to perform his duties for a long period without suffering from any form of invalidity within the meaning of article 10 of council regulation no 422/67/eec, no 5/67/euratom. in order to avoid a situation which would impede the exercise of judicial functions, it is proposed to amend article 62c of the statute of the court of justice by providing for the possibility of assigning temporary judges to the specialised courts. the proposal provides that, on the initiative of the president of the court of justice, the council of the european union shall draw up a list of three persons, chosen from among former members of the court of justice of the european union, as interim judges. for four years, they would be allowed to perform judicial duties only in the strict sense of the term and would not be entitled to participate in the administration of the civil service tribunal or in the election of the president of the tribunal and the presidents of the chambers.
in writing. - in order to avoid the civil service tribunal being in a situation which would impede the exercise of its judicial functions, it is proposed to amend article 62c of the statute of the court of justice by providing, in general, for the possibility of assigning temporary judges to specialised courts. in accordance with article 62c of the statute, as amended, the assignment of temporary judges to the civil service tribunal requires an amendment of annex i to the statute. the vote will be taken on the proposal from the court of justice, since it is a reasonable solution to a practical problem which could seriously hamper the work of the european civil service tribunal.
in writing. i have supported mr färm's motion for a resolution because i am in favour of the introduction of a regulation to plan the pilot phase of 'project bonds', i.e. bond loans to finance infrastructure projects in the transport sector. i believe that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
in writing. - i am pleased to note that the european parliament voted today by a large majority in favour of the text for which i am the rapporteur for the opinion and which provides for the testing of a new financial instrument to help build the transeuropean transport and energy networks, the so-called 'project bonds'. i voted in favour because i was personally committed to stressing the crucial importance of starting this pilot phase. the use of european resources and the experience already gained by the eib are the right requirements if we want to create a leverage effect that will allow the implementation of projects of quality and european interest. i think, however, that we must not stop at this first step, but look already at how to develop the pilot phase in the future: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. secondly, to be able to drive a real economic recovery, the eu must have the courage to implement a direct bond issuance initiative, to participate directly in infrastructure investments considered as a priority to pull the economy out of the crisis, to create jobs and to restore competitiveness to the system.
in writing. - i have chosen to defend and strongly support mr färm's report - not only because of its content as a whole - but also because i believe that it represents an extraordinary turning point both in the relationship between the institutions and for the future of the community's economic policy. for the first time, the european institutions have agreed to launch the experimental use of project bonds, one of the instruments which the european parliament has repeatedly supported. while noting that - unfortunately - the conditions do not yet seem to be in place for a concrete start to the creation of a broader and more effective form of european bonds, today's report opens the way to a test of the real willingness of the other european institutions to give concrete effect to the proclamations. the construction of trans-european connecting infrastructure is a strategically important sector and therefore ideally suited to the issuing of securities for the financing of infrastructure works. i express my full and unreserved support and hope that elsewhere in the european institutions the need to find new ways of financing strategic investments for the revival of the community economy will be shared.
in writing. − finally, after having focused on financial stability and economic rigour, the eu is now once again discussing growth. it is a pity, however, that we have to admit that the means available are not adequate for the purpose. bond lending is undoubtedly a useful tool to attract as much private investment as possible in the financing of infrastructure works in the fields of transport, energy and broadband networks. we are talking here about sectors whose operation is essential for the development of the european internal market. it is therefore easy to imagine the negative consequences in terms of economic growth and employment that would result from the failure to develop these factors. that said, in the face of a need for eur 1 500 billion for infrastructure, we are now talking about a budget of eur 230 million (because that is the figure envisaged by the european union). all we can say is that we have taken a tiny step in the right direction. but very small. it is not with these figures that we can achieve the development that we urgently need in the areas of transeuropean networks. we are giving the european citizens the impression that europe is worryingly lacking in ambition in dealing with the current economic situation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the farm report because i consider the financing of infrastructure projects in the transport and energy networks to be of crucial importance to achieving the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy. as the commission and the european parliament have repeatedly stressed, the development of tens, tens and telecommunications infrastructure is part of the overall and necessary framework for the eu's employment and investment recovery. therefore, adequate financial support is a strong guarantee of the project's implementation and thus a catalyst for private investors, usually blocked by uncertain risk perception and the continuing global economic crisis. the construction of new modern and integrated infrastructures is of fundamental importance if europe is to remain competitive and a major player on the international stage and a leader in the post-crisis world economy. the new infrastructure will create the right climate for a dynamic and competitive european private sector, stimulating growth, creating jobs for young people and engaging future generations in the relaunch of our economy, to respond to the most pressing challenges facing our continent today.
in writing. − by adopting the bonds for the construction of european infrastructure projects throughout the european union, our institution has clearly expressed its will to get out of the crisis by boosting the economy and investing in development, employment and infrastructure. it should be stressed that the bond loans adopted are not intended to replace the existing national private and public instruments, but are in addition to them, thus providing real added value for infrastructure projects. i also share the limitations and criteria adopted to determine the allocation of funds, the maximum ceiling of projects eligible for funding and the instruments for selecting projects. the pilot phase of this new european financial instrument will be crucial in order to analyse its effectiveness and, if necessary, make the necessary changes, with a view to a desirable wide-ranging application with a larger economic impact.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the proposal for a parliament and council regulation establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation and of the regulation laying down the general principles for the granting of community financial aid in the field of transeuropean transport and energy networks. i believe that modern and efficient infrastructure is of key importance in achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and reducing unemployment through the completion of the internal market. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the project. this makes bond lending safer and more attractive to capital market investors, who do not usually invest in infrastructure, such as pension funds. the reduction of investor risk should stimulate the flow of private finance towards priority infrastructure investments, which is usually blocked due to uncertain risk perception.
in writing. - i congratulate mr färm on his work. in adopting this report, parliament, having regard to the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council and the opinion of the committee of the regions, reaffirmed the need for modern and efficient infrastructure to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to reduce the unemployment rate by completing the internal market. the proposal approved by parliament today not only extends but also optimises the loan guarantee instrument for transeuropean transport network projects. while optimisation gives scope for application to sectors other than transport, including energy and ict projects, scaling up allows not only traffic risks to be covered, but also all possible risks that could cause a decrease in revenues over the lifecycle of a project. finally, it is rightly stressed that it is essential to strike the right balance between the delegated powers granted to the commission and the eib and the information obligations and accountability mechanisms.
in writing. - the issue of growth, especially at this historic juncture when europe is experiencing a period of economic and financial crisis, is one of the priorities on the community agenda. the europe 2020 strategy contains measures to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. to achieve the objectives set out in this strategy and to help the market to unlock its full potential, modern and efficient infrastructure (transport and energy) throughout europe is of crucial importance. that is why i supported mr färm's report. the focus is on bond loans which, in addition to equity instruments and grants, will help to finance new projects and attract more private investment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. there is still a lot of work to be done, but in this situation the färm report is a step in the right direction.
in writing. − a modern and efficient infrastructure is of key importance to achieving the europe 2020 strategy objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to reducing unemployment through the completion of the internal market. the estimated investment needs in transport, energy and information and communication technology infrastructure in europe are eur 1 500 billion for the period 2010-2020. while the private sector is expected to support the bulk of these mostly beneficial investments, the role of the public sector in europe will be crucial in achieving these objectives. the vote will seek to accelerate the development of infrastructure in transport, energy and ict networks, with particular emphasis on the strategic cross-border parts.
in writing. - i would like to support mrs balzani's motion for a resolution, as i am in favour of re-using part of the surplus for the financial year 2011 for payment appropriations, especially in the areas of research, health and agriculture, which are essential to support the productive fabric of the member states and the competitiveness of the european economy in general.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to redistribute a european budget surplus for the financial year 2012. a large part of the unused funds will in fact be returned to the member states, thus bringing new and immediate resources which can serve to mitigate the dramatic effects of the crisis which we are unfortunately still experiencing and which does not seem to be ending. another part of the amount will be used to cover certain payments already provided for in the eu budget which are not yet settled: we hope that they will give a breath of fresh air to the research and innovation companies most affected by this problem of european late payment.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 3/2012 concerning the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2011 financial year is approved by a favourable vote. this reduces by more than two thirds the level of the transfer, amounting to eur 485 million, to the research sector, despite the urgent need for payments. at the same time, over eur 338 million in payments are left on budget lines where they cannot be spent. by definition, this transfer represents a simple reallocation which does not affect the national contributions for 2012 to the union budget
in writing. − with this resolution we reiterate once again the validity of the two-state solution with jerusalem as the capital of two states. the right of palestinians for self-determination and state sovereignty is unquestionable, as is the right of israel to exist within safe borders. the eu and member states must play a more active political role, also within the quartet, in the efforts aimed at achieving a just and lasting peace. in particular i consider of fundamental importance the need to clearly denounce the illegality of all israeli settlements as they constitute a major obstacle to peace efforts. the israeli government must stop all construction and extension of settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem as well as dismantle all outposts erected since march 2001. israel is obliged to ensure that the basic needs of the occupied palestinian population are met and administer its occupation in a manner that benefits the local population. with this text we strongly condemn all acts of settlers’ extremism, violence and harassment against palestinian civilians and call on the israeli government and authorities to bring the perpetrators of such acts to justice and hold them accountable.
in writing. − this vote will encourage long-term peace and stability in the region. it is also concerned about the political and administrative difficulties in dividing jerusalem as the capital of both israel and a future palestinian state. finally, it recognises the right of the palestinian authority to govern and control the west bank as well as the right of the israeli authorities to safeguard their legitimate security and protection interests and calls on the israeli authorities to apply the rule of law in response to the establishment of israeli settlements in the territories occupied by israel and to comply with their obligations under international law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate seems to me to be a debate of contradictions, because on the one hand this house is always committed - at the instigation of certain groups - to recognising in europe rights for gays and lesbians which some member states do not recognise in their constitutions today, such as marriage. the same colleagues who always push and push for the recognition of these rights, today accuse someone of not wanting to recognize and protect the discrimination that lgbt people experience outside europe. that is absolutely not what we are talking about, there must be a firm condemnation of all the discrimination that lgbt communities experience outside europe and within europe, the individuals who are victims of it, the corrective rapes, the issues that we are hearing about today. but if we want to give this debate a sense of seriousness, the only way we can do that is to affirm the introduction of the principle of conditionality in relations with these states: the european union must make every agreement, including commercial agreements, with these countries conditional on the guarantee of respect for human rights. if that is not the case, we shall have made another resolution which may perhaps give some people some sympathy, but it will not have any effect!
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are here again to denounce the lack of freedom of expression in belarus, a country with which the european union has close relations. the belarusian correspondent of the largest polish daily andrej poczobut has been arrested for defaming president lukashenko, and faces up to five years in prison. this is not the first time that he has been jailed for defaming the prime minister: he spent three months in prison last year and was sentenced to three years for criticizing the president in his newspaper columns. in belarus, the rights to freedom of expression and assembly have been severely restricted and peaceful protesters have been arrested and summarily sentenced. in addition, there have been prompt and impartial investigations into allegations of torture and other ill-treatment, and prisoners of conscience have been denied access to medical and legal assistance. with this resolution parliament must forcefully demand respect for human rights in belarus, which is essential for any further and only subsequent reasoning on european union enlargement initiatives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in china the one-child policy has led to birth control through violent coercive measures, including forced abortion up to the eighth month and forced sterilization. those who conceive a child outside the quotas set by state control are taxed at prohibitive rates, and those who oppose the termination of pregnancy, including family members, are punished with imprisonment, and even the destruction of the house. it is an atrocity, an unacceptable violation of human rights to force a woman to have an abortion just because she does not have an administrative permit from the government. it would be really reductive to describe this as just a trauma for a woman, and it's no coincidence that in china, according to the world health organization, women have a higher suicide rate than men, and a terminated pregnancy has to be defined as a full-blown infanticide.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally reached the final debate and final adoption of this important regulation. first of all, i should like to say that i am personally very pleased with the work done by all the shadow rapporteurs and all those who have spoken, both by the commission and by the council. we've achieved this together. we have also, within a year, approved one of the most important dossiers for the internal market, by passing it at first reading and thus simplifying the legislative procedure. i think i can say very clearly that this is a real success for the european parliament, which has made a considerable contribution to the final text of the regulation. the role of parliament is therefore certainly being strengthened and i hope that this important institution, which is the one that really represents the european citizens, will be given ever greater impetus and involvement in the future. mr president, i shall now briefly highlight some of the peculiarities of the rules of procedure and stress the importance of these changes. firstly, with the entry into force of this regulation, the system will continue to be based on well-established principles, so that it will be voluntary, private and based on the principle of national delegation. in fact, our intention was not to overturn a system that works and has worked quite well, but to identify the adjustments needed to make it more democratic and competitive on a european and international scale. in addition, we have ensured the most active and effective participation of stakeholders, who also have public relevance, in the consultation phase, both before and after the mandate is drawn up. this is a very important point because it increases democracy and consensus around a standard by all the actors involved, both the market and public actors and public relevance. to ensure that this consultation takes place at all stages of the process, parliament asked the european commission to set up a notification system which would allow stakeholders to register and thus be automatically informed. it is right to ensure the participation of businesses and public interest groups in the system, but it is equally important to ensure the presence of public authorities and bodies with legislative or administrative functions in the process. another point of particular importance is the protection of small and mediumsized enterprises and the simplification of their participation, which i personally strongly wanted to see in the regulation, especially at national level, because small and mediumsized enterprises, both because of their small size and because of linguistic problems, have greater difficulties in being an active part of the system, although they are in fact the economic basis of our european system. the european level must help to ensure this representation, but it must start from the bottom up. so we've built a bottom-up system. the system that will come into force will be more coordinated between the different levels of play, from the national to the european level, and will also be better connected to the international level, which is one of the major objectives we are setting ourselves, because it is essential that the european union promotes and disseminates its standards on a world scale, so that they become universal standards. an important dialogue has been initiated with the united states, in particular with the mission we carried out in washington with the imco commission, and we are continuing along this road. the european parliament, however, rejected the council's request for implementing acts on technical specifications in the field of ict, or information and communication technologies, because they would add enormous weight to the commission's work, slowing down the whole process. however, parliament has ensured a consultation phase before the commission can decide whether or not to identify a technical specification. in conclusion, i think i can say that the regulation simplifies the whole system in administrative and financial terms, ensuring a high level of transparency. we have, for example, introduced the publication on the commission's website of the list of harmonised standards which have been the subject of a formal objection decision. i shall not go into this further, partly because the important aspects are innumerable and i would risk going too far into the technical aspects of a very complex dossier. i therefore leave room for debate and remain open to any clarification.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to turn briefly to the commissioner, who has said, and i agree, that the rapporteur's work has been excellent. i think the committees have helped to enrich the original proposal by updating it. there are undoubtedly new elements in the final text, such as the participation of stakeholders in the decision-making process, the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to standards, the introduction of the social clause - not a foregone conclusion but of great importance - and the recognition of the multi-stakeholder platform itself, these are components that add value and quality to the final result. as regards services, while i appreciate and approve the balance achieved, i think it is necessary to take into account, for the future, a new measure which will allow a process of harmonization without this becoming a burden on citizens or an element of unfair competition between economic systems. the work that has been done has been demanding and very substantial, but perhaps we should already start thinking about the next stage.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, there were two specific questions. on the latter question, from mr manders, there is a voluntary agreement between the european union and industry for harmonisation of chargers, and this will be of very great importance for consumers. there was another question on service standardisation, and i would like to tell the honourable member that the regulation reaffirms the possibility for the union to use service standardisation as a policy tool within harmonised service sectors. having said that, i could not agree more with what mr harbour said. this is indeed the first of 12 levers to boost growth and strengthen confidence in the single market act adopted by the commission in april 2011. this is good for industry, for consumers, and for the economy at large, but it is also – and i think many members have underlined this – an evolution, not a revolution. so the regulation builds on the main pillars of the current, successful system, and the improvement it brings will provide europe with a single transparent and comprehensive instrument which will not only support the implementation of policies here in europe but will also help promote the competitiveness of european enterprises throughout the world. so i hope this house will adopt by a massive majority this very important piece of legislation.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with this debate, in which we have presented the rules of procedure in a very complete way, highlighting the most important points. this regulation will ensure that national and european markets interact better and ensure greater competitiveness, which europe absolutely needs. improving the whole system of standards formation facilitates, simplifies and makes more effective the work of our enterprises. standards have a direct impact on citizens - mr schaldemose is right - and improve their lives, and we must make our colleagues aware of this so that we can spread it throughout our territory. at the same time, it was right to ensure that the european system was more competitive at national level. i also agree with mr andreas schwab that more regulation and fewer directives are needed if we are to have a genuine internal market, as suggested by professor monti and commissioner barnier. this is the right way to achieve a union which is not only economic but also political, so that we can finally call it 'european'.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 september.
the agenda includes the report by sophie auconie, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals and repealing the provisions on voluntary labelling of beef and veal (com (2012) 0162 - c7-0114/2012 - 2011/0229 (cod)) (a7-0199/2012).
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said by other members, if this proposal for a directive is not amended by amendments, we will strongly oppose it, because on the one hand the commission is giving farmers the option of voluntarily using electronic identification, which allows more reliable data to be obtained and strengthens the traceability and food safety system, but on the other hand it wants to ban optional labelling. we think it is absurd that a number of additional information, such as the breed or sex of the animal, the feed used, the age of the bovine or other information which can clearly distinguish one type of beef from another, cannot be given on the label. it is not clear to us why the commission intends to abolish a labelling system whose application is optional, on the pretext of alleged, unexplained administrative burdens, since each farmer can choose whether to accept them or not, since he can voluntarily decide whether to apply this methodology. we believe that the abolition of this option favours the less transparent producers and does not provide information to consumers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the abolition of voluntary labelling of beef is a pointless decision and counterproductive for both consumers and farmers. europe, in words, seems to want to protect consumers and ensure transparency, but in fact it is going in exactly the opposite direction, by eliminating a labelling system that guarantees a genuine and informed purchase. this flattening of the market and the encouragement of the industry of anonymity and counterfeiting to the detriment of quality-oriented breeders. in italy, one steak in two comes from abroad and very often we don't even know exactly where it comes from; this is why it is crucial to know the origin, breed and diet of the cattle. it is not clear why the commission intends to abolish a labelling system which is, moreover, optional and which is working effectively. citizens have a sacred right to know what they buy and eat: that is the way europe must go. we therefore have a great responsibility in the report which we are going to vote on tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals and the abolition of the provisions on the optional labelling of beef is of fundamental importance for the defence of quality breeding and the protection of consumer information and food safety. by proposing to remove the optional labelling, the commission is weakening these aspects by preventing the consumer from having access to additional information such as the sex, age or diet of the cattle - elements which i consider essential for two reasons: because they can drive the consumer towards a more conscious purchase and because they add value to the product. the commission's criticism of the optional labelling system is based on high administrative burdens, not balanced by correspondingly significant benefits. i would like to know on what basis this is based, since the simulations provided by independent associations consider these costs to be low and justified in any case in order to ensure information for the protection and benefit of the consumer. for these reasons i do not support the deletion of articles 16, 17 and 18 of the commission proposal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a substitute member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and as a full member of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i have had the opportunity to work on the dossiers. i have the impression that the commission is not taking account of the real players in this matter: farmers and producers. the proposals aim to introduce a ban on optional labelling a non-mandatory measure allowing producers who choose to do so to provide additional information on the label. since it was the same consortia representing the breeders and producers who requested that this measure continue to be provided for, it is paradoxical not to grant this possibility. on the other hand, the committee on agriculture and rural development is working to ensure that our farmers can communicate the data on the products they sell in the most transparent way possible. it is therefore counterproductive to work for the protection and transparency of consumer information on the one hand and to prohibit measures, even optional ones, which go in this direction on the other. it is clear that these choices are made if the intention is to lower the quality and standards of agri-food products. there is no other explanation for such a measure against farmers who wish to promote their commitment by transmitting quality indicators, such as the choice of one feed over another. for these reasons, i shall vote against certain amendments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 september. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens; the european legislation is committed to ensuring optimal protection for them, by means of provisions adapted to the changing needs of the market. while i share the commission's general objective of achieving greater clarity in the application of legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine animals, i strongly disagree with the proposal to abolish the provisions on voluntary beef labelling with the apparent justification of the substantial administrative burden not balanced by correspondingly important benefits. since it seems counterintuitive to call for the abolition of an optional rule as such, if this proposal were approved it would create a legal loophole in the field of optional labelling which, on the contrary, is valuable because it provides useful information which contributes to increasing both consumer information and the added value of products. the optimal marketing of products is a key factor for farmers and the approval by the competent authority ensures that the information on the labels is reliable. without such approval, consumers cannot trust the labelling of the product. for the reasons stated above, i am in favour of maintaining the current voluntary labelling system for beef.
in writing. voting for the abolition of voluntary labelling means voting for the quality and traceability of our beef. the cost reasons for proposing to simplify the beef labelling system seem understandable. however, they are not proportionate in terms of the losses or rather damage that this would entail; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. i hope, however, that it is clear to everyone that proposing to abolish the optional labelling system would be detrimental to the competitiveness of production. in my country, italy, farmers have long invested in quality, traceability and food safety, and have found optional labelling a useful tool to improve information and increase the value of products on the market.
the next item is the report by mrs hélène flautre, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on alleged cases of transport and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries by the cia: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw the attention of the house to the case of chiara invernizzi, an italian citizen who was divorced by her muslim husband, who refused to give her consent to emigrate under islamic law, and who is in danger of becoming another case of blatant violation of human rights, in particular the fundamental individual and personal freedoms of women. for five years, chiara has been living in jeddah, saudi arabia, after marrying a local man. the epilogue of his marriage is dramatic: the commission has been unable to reach a decision on the matter. she also ended up in court after reporting the abuse and threats of her ex-husband to the authorities. she was accused by the same of embezzlement and adultery, a crime for which the islamic sharia provides for the death penalty. i call for the immediate intervention of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, to activate all possible channels of diplomatic mediation for the release and repatriation of the italian citizen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of the rapporteur's text, which specifies that tissue and cell donations must continue to be made on a voluntary and free basis, but makes it clear that it is right to compensate for the costs incurred for donations, including travel, medical and loss of income. unfortunately, only 1% of all births in the european union are collected from cord blood, as many hospital staff continue to ignore the benefits of cord blood donation to women giving birth, so as not to incur the costs of handling the collected material. as for me, on the occasion of the birth of both my children, my wife was not able to donate her umbilical cord. for these reasons, the european commission must pay particular attention to the donation of cord blood, from which stem cells are derived, which are essential for treating diseases, including those of children, because it is impossible to continue to neglect the importance of their use. it is therefore essential to create this european database of tissues and cells, which can be used by all hospital facilities, public and private.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mrs linda mcavan for her work, which i share. the entry into force of the new provisions will substantially strengthen the legal framework for the surveillance of medicinal products. the general strategic objectives of the new regulation and the new directive are in line with the general objectives of the european union pharmaceutical legislation and their main purpose is to better protect the health of citizens and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for medicinal products for human use. i am in favour of the proposal because i believe that it is essential, in order to protect patients, to strengthen pharmacovigilance systems in such a way as to ensure greater transparency of procedures, improving the effectiveness of the product. recent cases have shown the need for further improvement of the system. the tolerability profile of a medicinal product under real conditions of use should be continuously defined and the rationality of the use of medicinal products in the population promoted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this was the mediation that was possible today to shed light on the subject of energy efficiency, which has so far been the cinderella of the climate and energy package. i thank all those who have worked to achieve this result and i reiterate that this is the only mediation possible today. it is now up to the member states to provide useful answers by intervening in public buildings and streamlining procedures to raise awareness among private individuals. i am glad that the commissioner has reiterated his commitment to present the report by 2014, because it will allow us to assess the results already achieved and to propose any new indications, which are certainly necessary.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief. in expressing my sincere thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the council, i would like to dedicate this regulation to a friend, an official of the italian delegation, who died during the work on standardization. on behalf of all of us, i therefore dedicate these rules to alberto normand, whose human and professional qualities were above all standards.
mr president, the current world economic and environmental crisis requires us to make choices to save resources. with the energy efficiency directive, which was adopted today, we can achieve important objectives such as: addressing climate change and the scarcity of fossil energy sources, such as coal and oil; reduce annual costs for the purchase of energy sources by as much as eur 400 billion, with a potential saving of eur 50 billion per year; reducing europe's dependence on russia and the opec countries, from which we import gas and oil; reducing air pollution, which today in some regions of europe represents an unfortunately unresolved threat to the health of millions of european citizens; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i therefore welcome the rules introduced for the renovation of public buildings and for the four-yearly energy audits, which are compulsory for all large companies. this is one of the many steps which are mandatory for europe. but we must do more: we must set ourselves more ambitious targets and adopt more binding measures for all member states.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report by mr turmes, which paves the way for the adoption of a directive which will finally close the gap between member states on energy efficiency. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. according to the commission's figures, the operation will reduce overall investment costs in energy generation and distribution by some 20 billion. this is a key element which will also help to establish the union as a global player, since future geopolitical balances will be mainly determined by policies on the supply and use of energy resources.
mr president, i voted in favour of this dossier because i believe that the question of energy efficiency, linked to sustainability and competitiveness, can certainly be an essential tool in a process, such as the present one, which is particularly difficult. sustainable growth is needed, which must concern small and mediumsized enterprises and which can also be used as a virtuous mechanism through innovative green technologies. all this is achieved through a design culture which makes the best use of these resources and channels them towards building renovation, which involves in particular the full and appropriate use of the european cohesion funds. a third of the buildings in europe were built after 1973, and that is a clear sign. there is also the possibility of moving in this context through better training and design consistent with the aims of the standard.
mr president, energy efficiency is one of the pillars of the union's climate policy. that is why today's vote is particularly important. it is the result of a satisfactory and timely agreement on the content, since it obliges the member states to prepare a strategy based on indicative national targets, which take account of the union's objectives, and at the same time allows energy companies to comply with the requirements for energy saving in accordance with the principle of reasonable flexibility. the target of a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020 is therefore within reach. i believe that the credit should go to this house in particular, because if the member states most involved in the council have finally accepted this valid compromise, it is because of the tenacity with which parliament's negotiators, starting with the rapporteur, have safeguarded the objectives. this is an important element in creating green jobs and, ultimately, in boosting competitiveness and sustainability.
mr president, a good compromise has been reached which puts europe on the right track to achieve the objectives of the climate package. one of the successes is that the 3% target for energy efficiency in public buildings has been maintained, an ambitious target in a time of economic crisis, which has a strong environmental impact and will be a lever for the union's economic growth. the directive lays the foundations for redesigning energy saving strategies, for which both private and public actors will need to rely on experts in the field, without whom the objectives set will be difficult to achieve. it therefore opens the door to encouraging national programmes for the training of experts in energy auditing and saving.
mr president, the european parliament has repeatedly called for the fight against international terrorism to be conducted with full respect for human dignity and fundamental freedoms. the union's security and counter-terrorism policies are based on police cooperation and effective intelligence action. i therefore believe that it is right to call on the member states to investigate the possible presence of secret detention centres or human rights violations on their territory, provided that such investigations are based on solid judicial evidence and not on speculation by the media and public opinion.
mr president, at a time in history when migratory flows are mostly mixed and include asylum seekers and refugees, it is of fundamental importance to make a real effort to ensure sound and efficient asylum policies. harmonisation of protection standards, effective practical cooperation and increased solidarity, not only between the member states of the european union but also between the european union and countries outside the union, are therefore key elements in creating an area of protection within which the rights of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection are duly promoted and respected. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, whom i thank for the excellent quality of the work he has done and for the important suggestions he has made. despite the harmonization of protection and asylum standards which is under way, we are still far from the notion of solidarity and shared responsibility enshrined in article 80 of the treaty. the dublin system places excessive expectations on the member states, which are the entry points to the european union. i therefore share the rapporteur's priorities for practical cooperation, technical assistance and financial solidarity. in this last area, i believe it is absolutely necessary to exploit the complementarity between the various eu funds, so that solidarity can be translated into concrete actions, including financial incentives for the relocation of beneficiaries of international protection.
mr president, the compromise reached between the council and parliament after a year of difficult negotiations is a starting point for the relaunching of the internal market. by using standards, european companies will be able to obtain certificates of conformity and safety of products and services in a shorter time and at lower costs than at present. the simplifications envisaged will be particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, as member states will have to facilitate the participation of smes in standardisation committees and their access to standards.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr i thank you for your work and the excellent quality of your report. standardisation is one of the 12 levers for the relaunch of the internal market and will play a key role in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the new regulation will enable european companies to obtain certificates of conformity and safety of products and services in less time, through a technically up-to-date, flexible and effective system. this will enable small and mediumsized enterprises in particular to reduce production costs and administrative burdens, thus increasing their representation in the european single market. in this context, it will be necessary to continue to stimulate voluntary consultation between industry, public authorities and other interested parties in order to ensure that standards and standards are developed in a transparent manner and can be updated over time.
mr president, the satisfactory compromise leads to a european standardization system which is technically up to date, more balanced, more effective and more responsive to the real needs of enterprises. the fact that it has tackled the problem of the slow process of developing standards and the issue of the underrepresentation of small and medium-sized enterprises is a credit to the commission. the creation of a notification system through which companies will be informed in advance of the commission's intention to submit significant standards and the extension of the scope of the regulation to these standards, covering all services representing 70% of the eu's gdp, should also be emphasised. we voted in favour of this because it is an important policy instrument to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market in products for consumer and environmental protection, innovation and social inclusion.
mr president, food safety is undoubtedly one of the most pressing issues facing european citizens. in 1997, following the outbreak of mad cow disease, the european union adopted strict rules on the identification and traceability of bovine animals. the text discussed today would amend the legislation in force, but would also introduce limits on the provisions relating to optional labelling. it would make it possible to obtain more reliable data through an electronic identification system for bovine animals and to strengthen the traceability system.
mr president, to abolish voluntary labelling for beef in europe is to arbitrarily choose to go against the safety and quality of our products. in the attempt to simplify, we cannot reduce the useful information to the detriment not only of the consumers who buy the meat, but also of the european farmers who, through labelling, differentiate and market their products. we have long argued that in order to protect production and purchasing, origin must be recognised. we are therefore opposed to a proposal which would return us to the status quo before this labelling, which has now achieved excellent results both in terms of the organisation of the whole chain of the sector and in terms of communication to the final consumer of meat. we want a safer europe, one which is attentive to the needs of consumers, to the quality and safety of food and to the development of our rural system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for the adoption of this report, which once again calls the attention of the european union to the protection of health and the protection of citizens. in this report we have in fact tackled the issue of the surveillance of medicinal products once again, following the adoption of directive 2010/84/eu and regulation (eu) no 1235/2010 amending the pharmacovigilance directives. after the so-called 'mediator case', it was felt that the shortcomings identified by the tests themselves needed to be addressed and the system already in place needed to be improved, particularly as regards the obligations to inform and notify the parties concerned and the list of medicinal products subject to enhanced surveillance. the adjustments thus introduced, although of a modest scale, complement and strengthen the legal framework already established for higher levels of transparency and efficiency and improved standards of medicinal product safety for the benefit of the health of european citizens.
mr president, today is a very important day for the health of the citizens of europe. this is certainly one of the most important reforms of the whole legislature, considering the beneficial impact it will have on the health of european citizens. the eu is now introducing stricter legislation and setting new maximum sulphur limits for marine fuels, whose air pollutants are estimated to cause as many as 50 000 premature deaths in europe. for the nordic countries the so-called 'seca zones' from 2015 the maximum sulphur limit in fuels will fall below 0.1 per cent, while for all other countries the permitted limit will be 0.5 per cent from 2020. we should have dared to do more, we should have extended these new limits to the whole of the european union. but how much is life worth? that is what thousands of european citizens are asking themselves in cities with large ports such as my beautiful and battered venice, whose inhabitants and works are constantly poisoned by the smoke from the chimneys of the large ships. well, thanks to europe, that smoke will be a little less black.
mr president, i am against the proposal for a directive because once again the european union wants to be the first in the world when it comes to the environment and climate. unfortunately, this attitude puts us at a distinct competitive disadvantage in the global marketplace, with negligible environmental benefits. the text, which was the result of the trilogue, is better than the one approved by the envi committee, but goes beyond the requirements laid down by the marpol convention: the vessel has not been impounded in the event of infringements, or the vessel has to demonstrate good faith in the purchase of fuel; it is not clear why liner ferries on the high seas are subject to stricter limits than those set at international level. in addition, the ban on the sale in the eu of fuel with more than 3,5% sulphur represents a competitive disadvantage for european suppliers. why does the commission not apply duties to goods from third countries which use fuel with a high sulphur content and which are harmful to the environment as a whole? does he not realise that by continuing to impose restrictions on our businesses he is encouraging unfair competition?
mr president, thinking of the more than 60 000 people waiting for a transplant and the 10 or so people dying every day because they cannot get an organ, i voted in favour of this report. i think that the initiative of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, supported by the work of mr yannakoudakis, is most appropriate. at a time of great difficulty such as we are experiencing in europe and the world in general, many desperate people are encouraging the deplorable practice of the marketing of organs. there is a growing number of reports of european citizens who, in order to cope with the serious difficulties of daily life, are selling their organs on the internet or through other channels. the european union is seeking to raise its guard with this report against a situation of great difficulty, an unsustainable wild west. we say once again 'enough' - because unfortunately the laws declaring this trade illegal are not enough - we say once again 'enough' to the trafficking of organs, to the illegal market, and instead to the life and health of citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report and i appreciated the work done by mr garcía pérez and i shared the request for an own-initiative report by the femm committee because i believe - as i have had the opportunity to repeat several times in this house - that it is important to work on the process of cultural growth in order to be able to compensate for the disparities which still exist in our social fabric between men and women. this report analyses in particular the gap between the two genders in the service sector and takes a step forward which i believe is important and which led me to support the report with my vote, which is to call on the member states, trade unions and employers to adopt a uniform assessment grid which will finally make it possible to overcome, or at least reduce, the pay gap between men and women.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr bendtsen's motion for a resolution because i am in favour of the allocation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the amount of eur 6 455 104 requested by denmark, in respect of the four-month period from may to august 2011, for the 981 danish workers made redundant by the shipbuilding company, odense steel shipyard, of whom 550 will be eligible for the egf. the danish application complies with the egf criteria as it demonstrates a correlation between the structural changes under way in that undertaking due to the current financial crisis and the redundancies.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established in 2006 as a support system for workers impacted by global structural change in trade patterns. denmark’s application in respect of the odense steel shipyard notes that the country’s workforce is highly concentrated in manufacturing and metallurgy, but has lost business because many global market shares have been transferred to asia. by mobilising the egf with an amount of eur 6 455 104, workers will be helped to return to the labour market, which is especially important because these employees have highly specialised training in their field which it is nearly impossible to apply in other industries. for these reasons, i voted in favour of mr bendtsen’s report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is a very important instrument of the european union. the institute was set up to try to resolve economically controversial issues and offers a chance for companies in difficulty to recover or at least to protect their employees and their families. in the case of odense steel shipyard, the six and a half million euros that will come to denmark, thanks also to my vote, will be used to cover the one thousand redundancies that the company is registering due to the layoffs due to the worldwide decline in shipbuilding, the major structural changes in the world trade system and the financial crisis.
in writing. − whereas the commission's fourth application under the 2012 budget concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 6 455 104 for denmark and concerns 981 redundancies, of which 550 are recipients of assistance, at the odense steel shipyard, the main enterprise, and at four downstream suppliers and producers in denmark during the four-month reference period from 1 may 2011 to 31 august 2011, this proposal fulfils the conditions for mobilising the egf set out in article 2 (a) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 and was submitted within the 10-week deadline set out in article 5 of that regulation; i would also like to stress the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the crisis in europe has not spared the countries of northern europe either: in denmark, the overall employment situation has deteriorated significantly and unemployment has risen from a record low of 3% in 2008 to a peak of 7% in 2010, with a severe impact especially in the metallurgical sector. the workers laid off by shipyards have a high level of technical expertise, which is difficult to apply in other sectors: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed. for these reasons i voted in favour of the request for the mobilisation of the egf for denmark.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) because it is not critical and the application meets the eligibility criteria. this is an allocation of eur 1 300 000 requested by spain to provide support for 836 redundant workers, 320 of whom are eligible for egf assistance, who were working in the construction industry for aragón construction in spain.
in writing. − spain’s application for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the construction sector in the nuts ii region of aragón addresses redundancies caused by the current economic crisis. the financial and economic crisis has greatly impacted spain’s construction industry due to a lack of demand for new construction. this trend is in line with the falling demand for new construction that exists throughout europe, but the condition of the housing market has degraded at an even more rapid pace in spain. a mobilisation of the egf for an amount of eur 1 300 000 will allow workers that had been employed in construction to diversify their skills, which will alleviate some of the burden of unemployment in aragón. i voted in favour of mr escobar’s report for these reasons.
in writing. − whereas the commission's application, the fifth under the 2012 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 1 300 000 for spain and concerns 836 redundancies, of which 320 were eligible for assistance, in 377 enterprises operating in the nace rev. 2 division 41 ('building construction') in the nuts ii region of the region of aragon (es24) during the reference period of nine months from 31 january to 31 october 2011, this proposal fulfils the conditions for mobilising the egf as laid down in article 2 (b) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 and was submitted within the 10-week time limit laid down in article 5 of that regulation; given that unemployment in aragon rose sharply in 2008 and 2009 and has continued to rise in the years since, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - it is easy to find points of convergence on such a complex report and i shall vote in favour immediately. many recommendations also appear convincing from the perspective of not 'wasting' the crisis, that is, of interpreting energy efficiency as part of an integrated response to the crisis. the idea of converging regulatory attention, individual incentives, promotion of competition and excellence in the building and construction industry on the objective of building efficiency is therefore a good one. the promotion of the redevelopment of large parts of private and public real estate through the involvement and support of economic forces and enterprises, a concrete commitment of the public authorities, and the participation of households, achieves a number of results: environmentally, it contributes to the achievement of the objectives as set out in the europe 2020 strategy; it could be a factor in revitalizing our economies, because it is based on the values of know-how and quality in enterprises. it helps households and consumers affected by the pervasive and cascading effects of fuel surcharges or increases in taxation at source; it promotes research and development without indulging in the suggestive and dangerous utopias of decline. contributes to security and stability by reducing energy dependence on supplies that are mostly located in politically volatile areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for an energy efficiency directive put forward by mr turmes. i fully share the objective of closing the gap to the 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 by defining, without setting binding targets, a common energy efficiency framework. i am convinced that the provisions contained in this measure will make a significant contribution to tackling the economic crisis, creating more opportunities for smes in the construction sector and increasing employment. the main benefits will be lower co2 emissions, resulting in less waste, and investment and innovation to achieve the targets will be promoted. i would like to stress in particular that this agreement is the result of a good compromise which, if implemented by the member states, will make it possible to achieve the objectives set, leading to improved efficiency, more innovation and cost reductions also on the part of public administrations. i welcome the fruitful negotiations which led to the definition of constraints leaving some flexibility for member states in the implementation, with the commission's monitoring role, which, with its evaluation report on the applicability of the directive in 2014, will check the progress made.
in writing. − negotiations on energy efficiency measures are proving increasingly difficult and complex, mainly because of some large member states, not always and totally willing to support ambitious agreements and prospects, which, in the short term, can lead to costs and negative consequences for their competitiveness. here too, despite some improvements, we are faced with a directive which, while contributing to the 20% energy saving target by 2020, will not be sufficient on its own (an estimated result of between 15% and 17%). we must therefore make a concerted effort to ensure that long-term prospects and needs find a way of prevailing over selfish interests which, in the short term, can strongly influence the governments of the member states, especially in a period of acute economic crisis. a structural and lasting solution to this crisis must be sought in measures that tackle and solve the serious problem of energy poverty at its root. we must rethink the way out, we cannot go back to the pre-crisis patterns of production and consumption, and for that we must be ambitious and courageous in creating new opportunities and new jobs.
in writing. - the political agreement reached is ambitious. the legislative proposal is an important instrument which, although not binding, introduces energy efficiency measures which should enable the european targets of 20% reduction in energy consumption by 2020 in the climate package to be achieved. we also hope that the package will stimulate economic growth, increase the competitiveness of enterprises and create jobs. i welcome the fact that this package addresses the concerns in terms of budgetary constraints imposed by the economic crisis, introducing a degree of flexibility that is well suited to certain contexts such as the italian one without forgetting environmental sustainability.
in writing. − efforts to save energy, according to the data available to us, are still not sufficient to achieve the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990. the report has the merit of highlighting this problem and of presenting solutions to try to implement an energy plan which is sustainable and with measurable objectives. in this sense, all productive sectors, not just the private sector, are identified as operational agents for greater energy efficiency. public buildings, for example, play a key role in this respect and their renovation is desirable precisely to meet minimum energy performance requirements and to get closer to the targets for reducing gas emissions.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. i agree with the clarification that the european union spends more than 400 billion euros a year on energy imports. achieving the minimum energy saving target of 20% will not only increase our energy security, but also reduce the transfer of wealth from eu economies to energy-producing countries by at least €50 billion a year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr turmes' report because i believe that one of the most important areas to be promoted, both at european and national level, is energy efficiency. in this context i have greatly appreciated the excellent work done by my colleagues in identifying priority areas for stimulation. the difficulty of achieving the 2020 targets set by the executive commission requires the eu and all member states to be able to commit themselves fully to leading by example and to seeking solutions that can make energy consumption more efficient. i also think it is right to provide for the necessary and periodic management checks, or 'audits', to intervene where and when necessary. this is both to optimise the present and to look to future goals with renewed vigour.
in writing. the text just voted repeals a directive from eight years ago which, in the field of research and development, industry and energy, is old and obsolete. the proposal for the new directive, in line with the eu 2020 targets, aims to reduce the eu's energy use by 20%. the commission will be able to take account of the need to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. energy efficiency means saving energy costs, increasing safety, specialising and developing industries, and we cannot but share these objectives.
in writing. − considering that the european union's energy efficiency targets are indispensable to achieve, as failure would also mean that the eu would miss the targets on climate change, energy security, green growth and social protection, a common eu approach is needed in order to consolidate energy savings, energy efficiency and innovation, achieve economies of scale and reduce red tape across all member states. furthermore, taking into account that the eu's efficiency policy will be based on existing regional and national policies of some effectiveness, and will provide the necessary flexibility to take account of local and national specificities, based on the advance financing of efficiency measures and stimulation of technological, financial and social innovation, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that a net 20% cut in energy consumption in the eu could save €50 billion a year. this ambitious target can only be achieved through new mandatory energy saving measures such as renovation of public buildings, energy saving plans for public enterprises and energy audits for all large enterprises. this decision is doubly important: it is not only critical to achieving our energy security and climate goals, but it will also give a strong boost to the economy and create new jobs.
in writing. - this directive, which we strongly opposed at the beginning of the legislative process, to the extent that we tabled an alternative resolution asking the commission to withdraw its proposal and to reformulate it because it affected the right of a member state to determine the conditions for the use of its energy sources, has been significantly amended. the amendments made to the trilogues compared to the texts produced by the itre and envi committees increase the level of flexibility of the member states, industry and public bodies by significantly reducing the level of ambition proposed. the rapporteur, who was strongly opposed to the amendments, accepted the compromise, even though the 20% energy efficiency target cannot be fully guaranteed as a more ambitious position would jeopardise the agreement. since what we asked for in our alternative resolution has in fact been transposed, our vote is in favour, even if we continue to have doubts about the applicability of the directive.
in writing. - the text we voted on this morning proposes to further strengthen the measures presented by the commission, by integrating them into the european energy policy perspective to 2050, and also by including requests for financial support for programmes/investments for efficiency measures. i think the proposal is particularly worthwhile, as it puts particular emphasis on the identification of energy efficiency targets, the role of the public sector as a role model, mandatory energy efficiency schemes and the promotion of efficiency in heating and cooling, with particular reference to cogeneration and efficiency in energy transmission and distribution. finally, the commission estimates that, in the face of an increase in the cost of investments in energy efficiency of around eur 24 billion per year, the legislative proposal would lead to an overall reduction in the cost of investments in energy generation and distribution and in the costs of the 'energy bill' of around eur 20 billion for the period 2011-2020. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the directive.
in writing. - mr turmes' report introduces a series of energy-saving measures including new obligations for the refurbishment of public buildings and the development of cogeneration technologies that member states will have to apply to achieve the energy efficiency targets foreseen for 2020. in view not only of the difficult economic situation europe is facing but also of the efforts already made by european companies to improve energy efficiency, i believe that the text adopted today is a good compromise: the measures envisaged should allow the commitments made under the 'climate package' to be respected. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr jarosław leszek wałęsa, as he was not acting in the exercise of his duties when he was involved in the road traffic accident in september 2011 which gave rise to the request for waiver. the member himself made this request in order to allow a rapid investigation into the incident.
in writing. − having regard to the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jarosław leszek wałęsa, sent on 20 april 2012 by the prosecutor general of the republic of poland in the context of an alleged infringement procedure, and communicated in the chamber on 23 may 2012, and considering that the prosecutor general of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jarosław leszek wałęsa, member of the european parliament, in the context of an alleged infringement procedure, and that jarosław leszek wałęsa has refused to be heard by the committee on legal affairs, indicating that he would prefer the matter to be resolved swiftly and believing that his immunity should be waived, i express my vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mrs collin-langen, because at the time of the request she was not yet a member of the european parliament and the committee on legal affairs therefore did not find any direct links with her position in the european parliament. the member of parliament herself requested the revocation in order to allow the authorities to carry out the investigation on the use of public funds and procurement for a flower show in 2008 in bingen, germany, where she was mayor, more quickly.
in writing. − having regard to the sitting of 14 june 2012, at which the president informed, pursuant to rule 6 (2), that he had received a request on 27 april 2012 from the prosecutor general of koblenz concerning the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of birgit collin-langen with reference to articles 8 and 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, the president referred the request to the committee on legal affairs pursuant to rule 6 (2). birgit collin-langen was heard by the committee on 10 july 2012 pursuant to article 7 (3). on the basis of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs to parliament to waive the parliamentary immunity of birgit collin-langen, i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that any counter-terrorism strategy should be conducted in strict compliance with human rights obligations. this parliament has repeatedly and strongly condemned ‘extraordinary rendition’, detention without trial, secret prisons and torture. i believe that the eu commitment to human rights must be reflected in all policy areas in order to be credible. for this reason, with this text we call on member states to investigate whether there are secret prisons on their territory or whether operations have taken place whereby people have been detained under the cia programme in facilities on their territory. as regard to ‘state secrecy’, i strongly believe that only genuine national security reasons can justify secrecy, which is in any case overridden by fundamental rights obligations that cannot be derogated from, such as the absolute prohibition on torture.
in writing. - i abstained on mrs flautre's report because i believe that, despite the results achieved by the collection of different information on the location of the illegal cia prisoner detention sites in europe, the eu situation is very uneven in this respect: many member states are not conducting serious investigations into human rights violations linked to cia operations within eu space, in the area of transport and detention of prisoners. i regret the lack of communication, transparency and application of the investigative methods by some member states.
in writing. the resolution on the alleged cases of the cia's transporting and illegal detention of prisoners in european countries draws attention to a subject which continues to be controversial in italy. comparing the air traffic data managed by eurocontrol, it seems there is an illegal system that has led to suspicious disappearances that is not tolerable. all responsibility must be taken to ensure that such cases are not repeated in the future. the fight against terrorism in the eu must be conducted in compliance with eu law and the sovereignty of the member states, which have the right and the duty to prosecute and try suspected terrorists.
in writing. − in relations between the european union, its member states and third countries, it is essential to ensure the full application of the human rights clauses contained in the agreements. the way in which governments cooperate with the repressive apparatus of dictatorships in the name of fighting terrorism must be reviewed. security sector reform must ensure a clear separation between intelligence and law enforcement functions.
in writing. - having regard to the treaty on european union (teu), in particular articles 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 21, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 18 and 19 and the european convention on human rights and its protocols, as well as the relevant un human rights instruments, and whereas parliament has condemned the us-led cia's programme of surrender and secret detention, which has resulted in multiple human rights violations, including cases of arbitrary and unlawful detention, torture and other ill-treatment, violations of the principle of non-refoulement and enforced disappearances, and has repeatedly and firmly condemned illegal practices such as 'extraordinary rendition', summary trial, detention without trial, executions, secret prisons and torture, i express my vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that eu member states should conduct thorough investigations to find out whether there were secret prisons or facilities on their territory where people from the cia's secret rendition and detention programme were held in the early 2000s. only valid reasons of national security can justify secrecy. that is why it is necessary to reopen the national investigation in order to clarify this case.
in writing. - it is clear that the humanitarian crisis in the middle east is bound to have a strong impact on europe, but especially on the member states, such as italy, which face the mediterranean. efficient action is needed by improving coordination between member states, through an appropriate sharing of responsibility in ensuring that their asylum systems meet european and international standards, and also through a fair distribution of asylum seekers. according to the latest eurostat data, in the first quarter of 2012 alone, italy received 2,210 new asylum applications. asylum seekers are on average very young, aged between 18 and 34 (67.2%) and underage (17.9%). i welcome the establishment of the european asylum support office and also the creation of the asylum and migration fund from 2014 onwards, which are very useful tools for launching targeted actions in support of states with enormous burdens and responsibilities and asylum seekers and international protection seekers hoping for a better future.
in writing. − with this text we reiterate that the right to international protection is a fundamental right enshrined in international and eu law and complemented by a series of additional rights and principles, such as the principle of non-refoulement, the right to dignity, the prohibition of torture, inhuman or degrading treatment. for this reason member states must ensure that fair and efficient asylum systems are put in place in order to respond to varying asylum flows. member states have also the obligation to oppose with all means the rise of xenophobia and racism in europe. a first step to fight the negative and misinformed assumptions about asylum seekers and refugees could be enhanced through the organisation of awareness-raising campaigns on the actual situation of beneficiaries of international protection.
in writing. - experience in this area shows that the loosening of the bonds of responsibility and solidarity between member states invariably results in a losing game, in which from time to time a single country, often a country bordering the mediterranean, fails to cope with a surge in refugee flows and is cited as a negative example. the emotional climate that follows is a fertile ground for opposing demagogues and for manifestations of that particular residual selfishness, inherited from an era in which european countries faced each other instead of cooperating. i therefore support the report which deals with exemplary clarity with outstanding questions of the ceas. i would particularly like to draw attention to the recommendations in paragraph 47, which, if translated into specific measures, would make it possible to bind the member states in an effective bond of shared responsibility and mutual solidarity, ensuring - and this is the fundamental objective - that the plight of asylum seekers is addressed on an appropriate scale, with humanity, reasonableness and realism. it will also be useful to reconsider the alignment of legislation on legal immigration, a closely related area, whose problems are directly reflected in the reception and asylum system.
in writing. − ensuring the smooth functioning of the common european asylum system is crucial at a time when migration flows are mostly mixed in nature and include migrants, asylum seekers, refugees and vulnerable people such as unaccompanied minors. it is worth noting that migration and asylum flows have their own specificities which cannot be ignored or conflated. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − in 2012, the european union committed itself to completing the creation of a common european asylum system (ceas) based on three pillars: the harmonisation of protection standards by further aligning member states' asylum legislation; effective and sustained practical cooperation; and a greater sense of solidarity and responsibility, not only between eu member states, but also between the eu and non-eu countries. given that harmonisation of protection standards is being achieved through the amendment of member states' legislation and that practical cooperation will be strengthened through the european asylum support office (easo), it is now important to focus on the third pillar of the ceas by building on the notion of solidarity and responsibility sharing enshrined in article 80 tfeu, and for this reason i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because the transfer of internationally protected persons within the european union should take account of their interests and the need for solidarity between member states. this is why more appropriations are needed for asylum policy, for the common processing of asylum applications and for a stronger role for the european asylum support office.
in writing. − we are at a historic moment in which migration flows are mixed and we have to deal with asylum seekers by land and by sea. i voted in favour of the report on strengthening solidarity in the field of asylum, as it represents a concrete commitment to ensure adequate and efficient asylum policies. the report outlines a better harmonisation of protection and asylum standards and greater solidarity between member states, i.e. mutual assistance and burden-sharing between member states to ensure that rights are promoted and respected. i share the rapporteur's priorities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − standardization is one of the 12 levers of the single market act and plays a central role in the smooth functioning of the european market. it guarantees the protection of consumers and the environment, and at the same time the competitiveness and innovation of our companies. i have appreciated, and voted in favour of, the work done by mrs comi and the compromise reached between parliament and the council after more than a year of negotiations. finally, businesses and national bodies will have at their disposal a transparent, effective and less administrative tool. companies which, in italy alone, represent 99.9% of the production fabric, and which will finally be able to: participate in standardisation committees; use standards to obtain certificates of conformity and safety of products and services in less time and at less cost; be informed in advance, through a notification system, of the commission's intention to submit standards.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the compromise reached between the european council and parliament, after more than a year of negotiations, represents a decisive step forward towards a more balanced, efficient and responsive european standardisation system that meets the real needs of european businesses. the impact of the new regulation can be fully understood only if it is understood that standards are a tool for competitiveness for all businesses and in particular for smes, which can obtain certificates of conformity and safety of products and services in less time and at less cost. in particular, i welcome two aspects of the new proposal: the creation of a notification system through which european companies will be informed in advance of the european commission's intention to submit standards and the extension of the scope of this regulation to standards covering all services, which represent more than 70% of the gdp of the european union. a further positive element is that the new legislation will require member states to facilitate sme participation in standardisation committees and sme access to standards.
in writing. - the commission has tackled a subject which has historically been a constitutive feature of european integration and the report takes up this importance. i therefore express a favourable opinion and congratulate the honourable member on the effective synthesis in defining such a delicate subject. i would like to stress the urgency of aligning the timetable of the european institutions with that of industry and society at large in the field of standardisation. innovation in this field, the result of agreements within the sectors, including through forums, is certainly a sign of vitality, but this activity cannot be entrusted to purely private methods: without institutional impetus, technical and regulatory obstacles and market fragmentation would be difficult to overcome. moreover, a rather disorderly network of standards resulting from commercial relationships, contracted outside the scope of the nso, could generate market distortions. the drive towards standardisation is naturally driven by society and the market and is driven by reasons of development, cost reduction for firms and increasing the value of products and services, which are well known to consumers. it would be very curious if the european institutions were to marginalise themselves in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on european standardisation presented by my colleague, mr comi, because i believe that it brings substantial benefits to the european union and the member states. the rules of the regulation are designed to achieve the objectives of greater efficiency, market competitiveness and speed in the development of european standards with greater transparency and applicability of the same. in particular, the regulation focuses on social inclusion, stakeholder participation and consultation, and services, with particular attention also paid to the role of smes. in this connection, i think it is appropriate to emphasize that rules are important for the competitiveness of companies, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, and are essential for development. this regulation will enable smes to reduce costs and increase their competitiveness on the european market, thereby increasing their participation and access to the rules, and allowing them to have a say in their definition. the main benefits of this regulation are: improved interaction between markets; increased transparency; improved standards; facilitating and simplifying the work of businesses and improving the lives of consumers. it will play a key role in the completion of the internal market and a genuine economic and monetary union.
in writing. − to be able to use your phone charger in a place other than the one you usually live in, the electricity socket must be compatible. or a train that wants to cross state lines, it has to be able to run on proper tracks. these examples show how essential standards are in our daily lives and how important it is to ensure that different technologies are interoperable so that they can be used to their fullest potential. this regulation, for which i was rapporteur, makes the standardization system more effective, improves the quality of life of our citizens, the competitiveness of our enterprises and thus strengthens the whole european market. i am very pleased that this has been achieved in a short time and through complex negotiation between the various interests involved and, above all, that it has been supported so widely by the european parliament. i am sure that this new instrument will have a significant impact on the revival of the market and the promotion of our enterprises.
in writing. - the work carried out by mrs comi on such a broad and complex subject is to be appreciated for its ability to summarise and resolve the proposals in this field. the european legislation that is as regular and harmonized as possible and that takes account of the various components of the european system is all the more desirable. the regulatory system impacts on the activities of enterprises and their competitive capacity. it is therefore important to proceed along a path that reduces bureaucracy and makes the industrial fabric involved in decisions concerning european legislation. if operators are fully involved in this important decision-making process, the benefits will be felt by the whole community and the whole range of services provided to consumers and citizens.
in writing. - it is important that this report be adopted because the rules for all those areas which are often overlooked need to be rapidly proportioned and simplified. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets out new priorities and fills the gaps in this important area. firstly, the participation of smes in the european standardisation process is finally encouraged, so that the real productive forces of the eu are fully involved. it also stresses the importance of consulting consumer associations when setting standards, which can be very helpful, especially for certain people with specific needs, such as the disabled. we hope, therefore, that we shall be able to have a more transparent and representative european standardisation, which will be of particular help to the needs of individuals and smaller producers. it could certainly have gone further, for example by proposing that access to standards regulations be free of charge for micro-enterprises: i myself have received several reports from small businesses which have faced objective economic difficulties in obtaining these documents which are essential for their production. however, there are high research costs which must be covered in some way, and so we can regard the text voted on today as a good compromise, the actual implementation of which, in any case, will have to be discussed in more detail later.
in writing. − taking into account the conclusions of the express group report and the replies to the commission's public consultation on the current legal framework for european standardisation, the basis for a review of the european standardisation system has now been laid. in order to ensure that the european standardisation system is not simply a system of standards, but also a system of standards, the commission has proposed a number of amendments to the existing system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation improving the use of technical standards in the services and telecommunications sectors. this new regulation will give european companies more immediate access to standard solutions for technical problems, thereby reducing production costs, facilitating the dissemination of best practice and increasing competitiveness. the new regulation, which aims to modernise the so-called 'normalisation' process, simplifies the whole system in administrative and financial terms, while ensuring a high level of transparency. i think the greatest success has been in ensuring that small businesses and representatives of consumers, environmental organisations and civil society are involved and that they are consulted throughout the process of developing standards. this is a very important point, since small and mediumsized enterprises, both because of their small size and because of language problems, have greater difficulties in being an active part of the system, even though they are the economic basis of our european system. the new rules will also make european standards more compatible with international standards, thus improving the overall competitiveness of eu businesses.
in writing. - i supported the legislative proposal on european standardisation presented by mrs lara comi, as it set itself the important objective of amending a whole series of guidelines in a technical area as important to the business world as standardisation. this will enable smes to be directly involved in the development of the new standards through lower access charges. in addition, in the definition of standards, there will also be room for consumers through their representative associations.
in writing. the new european standardisation regulation is a satisfactory compromise reached after a year of difficult negotiations. i believe that european standardisation is a key step towards achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and a strong relaunch of the internal market. this regulation will enable european companies to obtain certificates of conformity in a system that is constantly updated, with safer products, faster services and lower costs. this is particularly beneficial for smes, which were previously under-represented, but will now be more represented and will have to cope with lower costs and, in general, lower charges. the regulation aims to reduce bureaucratic barriers and increase transparency, while also protecting consumers and the environment.
in writing. - some contradictions have emerged in this proposal for a regulation, since the provisions contained in it on the one hand bring advantages through the electronic identification of bovine animals, which makes it possible to speed up their registration and thus their traceability. on the other hand, they take some steps backwards on the grounds that they are reducing the costs and administrative burdens borne by the member states and operators who choose to apply the voluntary labelling scheme. with great effort we have achieved an optimum level of protection of the health of our citizens in recent years, by trying to provide the consumer with all the useful information that contributes to increasing the added value and quality of products. we have also tried to curb the industry of beef and counterfeit products by optional labelling. then why waste the work we've done? why should we abolish voluntary labelling when the fact that it is voluntary does not oblige anyone to apply it?
in writing. i voted against the amendment tabled by mr auconie because i think that the abolition of voluntary labelling of beef is a pointless and counterproductive decision, both for consumers and for farmers. this proposal flattens the market and encourages the industry of anonymity and counterfeiting, to the detriment of quality-oriented breeders. citizens have a right to know what they are buying and eating: i therefore reiterate my vote against the amended proposal.
in writing. - i cannot be satisfied with today's vote on the labelling of beef. although by a few votes, we failed to maintain the optional labelling. a specific request from the entire italian supply chain which rightly expressed concern: the abolition of the quota will cause economic damage to farmers - many have already invested in and successfully use this instrument - and will put them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to other markets, since italian production is characterized by its quality. the fact that the rapporteur has decided to refer the text back to the envi committee gives us hope, considering that a bloc majority could be formed in the council to re-introduce mandatory labelling mechanisms to protect the principles of quality and traceability.
in writing. - i wanted to stress the importance and gravity of the possible abolition of the voluntary labelling system for beef and veal, which is why i voted in favour of not abolishing this system. if parliament's position is adopted in the negotiations with the council, there will be a serious lack of transparency for the consumer and a deterioration in the quality of the product, since the optional label allows 24 types of additional information to be included throughout the supply chain and not just the generic 'useful information' of the mandatory labelling: the country of birth of the bovine animal, the country of rearing and the country of slaughter. i hope that in the negotiations the council will not opt for the abolition of the optional labelling system.
in writing. − food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens. european legislation must therefore ensure optimum protection for them, by means of provisions updated and strengthened in the light of the new needs identified. that is why i am in favour of adopting this report.
in writing. − considering that the databases complying with directive 64/432/eec, containing information on bovine animals, do not currently take account of the advent of electronic identification technology for bovine animals and that the revision of regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 favours the progressive and harmonious development of this new technology, it is also appropriate to adapt the principles for the collection of the data in question by making them compatible with the new methods of identification of bovine animals. taking into account the additional objectives of simplifying the provisions on beef labelling - although the aspects related to labelling are covered by horizontal legislation and should therefore not be the subject of a conferral of powers on the commission - and of updating the powers conferred on the commission, and recalling, however, that the delegation of powers may be revoked at any time by the european parliament and the council, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against the report on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the electronic identification of bovine animals and repealing the provisions on the optional labelling of beef and veal. i think it is wrong to abolish the labelling system, the application of which is optional, by invoking administrative burdens which each farmer can decide voluntarily to accept or not. on the contrary, this labelling system has proved its effectiveness in promoting informed consumer purchasing by ensuring that supplementary information is provided in a harmonised and certified manner. its abolition would favour the least transparent producers
in writing. - in italy, as in most european countries, many operators have been investing for years to comply with european regulations on beef labelling. this important tool aims to provide useful information (such as the breed and sex of the animal, the feed used and the age of the bovine, etc.) which consumers are interested in for the purpose of an informed and informed purchase. its success is now evident throughout europe. the abolition of the provisions on voluntary labelling would create a vacuum, with the consequence of a proliferation of different voluntary beef labelling schemes without adequate and rigorous control mechanisms; the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. that is why i voted against all those amendments which sought to reject the maintenance of the voluntary labelling system for beef.
in writing. - the effects of harmful drugs last for decades, with significant social impact, not to mention thousands of personal tragedies: we're still dealing with the effects of dangerous drugs prescribed in the 1950s and 1960s. we have a moral duty to make the best use of the scientific and regulatory instruments at our disposal to prevent, as far as possible, suffering and damage to health, also in the interest of a sector which contributes decisively to our economies and which should not be criminalised in general, where specific responsibilities fall on a limited number of private managers. the four amendments to the directive proposed by the commission are therefore entirely reasonable and appropriate: they speed up the implementation of procedures for the verification and prevention of the marketing of potentially dangerous medicinal products and help to reveal more clearly any traces of possible malice on the part of companies marketing medicinal products which subsequently prove to be harmful. the amendments proposed by the rapporteur are designed to involve the ema more closely and to ensure full transparency for consumers and the medical and scientific community in general. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. the legislative proposal is based on the desire to avoid that certain provisions are not observed and that this leads to serious health risks. recent cases have in fact demonstrated the urgency of action to improve the system of pharmacovigilance in order to strengthen the existing system. the agreement reached is therefore a clear signal to fill the gaps in the previous system. the vote in the house shows the will to establish a european system for the assessment of potential problems with medicines. the new legal framework will allow for better monitoring of farms: finally, companies withdrawing a medicine from the market will not be able to hide behind 'commercial reasons', but will be obliged to provide precise and timely explanations.
in writing. − a review of pharmacovigilance legislation is absolutely necessary. the safety of medicines at eu level needs to be improved by strengthening the role of the european medicines agency in the collection and response to alerts and by enhancing cooperation between member states.
in writing. − taking into account that in december 2010 the european parliament and the council agreed to a review of the rules on pharmacovigilance at eu level by adopting directive 2010/84/eu and regulation (eu) no 1235/2010, the measures taken in this context will help to improve the safety of medicines at eu level by strengthening the role of the european medicines agency. however, a major drug safety investigation in france in 2011 in the so-called 'mediator case' called for an urgent review of the pharmacovigilance systems in place in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the pharmacovigilance system is properly functioning.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it will make it possible to monitor the adverse effects of medicines more closely and to avoid a repeat of the french diabetes drug mediator, which is suspected of having caused more than 500 deaths. the new rules, agreed between parliament and eu ministers, will introduce an automatic emergency procedure, which will allow a medicine to be withdrawn from the community market even if a member state decides to block its sale on the national market.
in writing. − in december 2010, directive 2010/84/eu was adopted and regulation (eu) no 1235/2010 concerning the review of european pharmacovigilance rules entered into force in july 2012. while the new legislation has indeed strengthened pharmacovigilance at eu level, the system has some potential gaps in existing pharmacovigilance texts that need to be addressed. i voted in favour of the report on pharmacovigilance because it guarantees a strengthened surveillance of the use of medicinal products and improves the system of information and notification obligations for the parties concerned. the legal framework is therefore strengthened, which now ensures higher levels of transparency and security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr mcavan's proposal for a regulation because i agree with the importance of strengthening transparency and enforcing reporting obligations by the bodies authorised to market medicinal products in cases of withdrawal from the market of those medicinal products which are found to be toxic to human health. the continued presence on the market of a medicinal product declared as non-standard poses a major risk to european consumers.
in writing. − a major drug safety investigation carried out in france in 2011 in the so-called 'mediator case' called for an urgent review of the pharmacovigilance systems in place in the eu. considering that while the new legislation has indeed strengthened pharmacovigilance at eu level, there are some potential gaps in the union system that still need to be addressed, it is necessary to introduce an automatic emergency procedure, clarify the company's transparency obligations and expand the list of medicinal products subject to additional monitoring. i hope that these objectives will be achieved and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted against the hassi report amending directive 1999/32/ec as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels. the limits for the high seas are equivalent to those for the following seca (sulphur emission control areas): this will bring the mediterranean into this classification, which goes well beyond the limits set by the marpol convention (international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships). i believe that these changes have a competitive disadvantage for the european market which is far greater than the environmental benefits which are negligible.
in writing. − considering that air pollutants from ships are estimated to cause 50,000 premature deaths in europe each year and that sulphur and nitrogen oxides in the atmosphere give rise to secondary particulate matter, which is harmful to health, it is necessary to apply the maximum sulphur limit values for marine fuels established in 2008 by the international maritime organisation (imo). given that if they are not reduced, by the end of this decade sulphur oxide emissions from ships in the eu's maritime zones will exceed the combined emissions from the union's land areas, and that according to commission estimates the monetary value of the health benefits that can be achieved is greater than the costs of reducing ship emissions by a factor of between 2 and 25, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i congratulate mr hassi on his work. by adopting this report, in the light of the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council (com (2011) 0439), and having regard to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 18 january 2012, the european parliament takes a serious position on the challenge of improving air quality on european coasts in order to reduce deaths caused by air pollution from ships. the new regulation aims to bring european legislation into line with the limits set by the international maritime organisation and therefore provides for a reduction in the maximum general sulphur content for european seas from 3.5 to 0.5% by 2020. this can easily be achieved through the use of environmentally friendly technologies and fuels. i also find it very positive that the commission is being asked to take account of the seca limits, which are more stringent for all community territorial waters, for example within 12 nautical miles of the coast.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text to make the limits for sulphur in marine fuels stricter by 2020, a change which will have the main effect of improving air quality on european coasts and reducing some 50 000 premature deaths per year caused by air pollution from ships. to meet the new limits will necessarily increase the use of cleaner fuels or technologies, such as smoke cleaning, that can provide this result, all to the benefit of the health of european citizens.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for the text tabled by mr hassi on the proposal for a revision of the directive on the sulphur content of marine fuels. the new directive, which transposes the most recent provisions adopted in this field at community level, introduces obligations for passenger ships operating outside protected areas and further lowers the maximum sulphur content of marine fuels used in sensitive areas such as the emission control areas of northern europe. after a series of long and intense negotiations, a compromise was reached which represents the right balance between european environmental objectives and the positions of the companies involved.
in writing. − the commission's proposal to amend article 103e of the single cmo regulation (regulation (ec) no 1234/2007), which provides for the possibility for member states to grant decoupled aid to wine growers under the single payment scheme (sps), certainly needed to be amended. i agree with the work done and the proposals put forward by mr dorfmann, because they ensure that farmers can be assured of the predictability of payments from aid. the report also effectively addresses the current transitional situation of cap reform. it was important above all to avoid member states planning five-year decisions which were not really compatible with the commission's proposal for a new direct support scheme, just as it was essential to reconnect the timetable of the final transfer decision to the timetable of the future reform. the report takes account of all these problems and the solutions reached are very positive. that's why i gave you my full support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, considering that this regulation provides a clear legal basis for undertakings trading in the wine sector. the proposal makes it possible for member states, on the basis of the provisions already existing in the existing cmo legislation, to amend their support programmes annually as regards the part allocated to the single payment scheme, while still giving them the possibility of deciding to suspend the transfer of funds from their wine-growing areas to the single payment scheme. the annual measure would ensure, in addition to continuity with the decisions taken up to 2013 for direct payments, that member states would not be able to plan five-year decisions which are not compatible with the commission proposal. i hope that the resistance of some countries will be overcome and that this regulation will be considered to be the right one, since it will guarantee a compromise between the consolidation of the single market and the needs of the companies operating in this sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because only a simpler and more consistent approach will allow effective support for wine growers in the future. the commission proposal calls for member states to decide definitively by december 2012 whether to transfer funds from the wine budget to the single payment scheme. the draft report, on the other hand, aims to prevent member states from planning decisions for the next five years at this stage, and thus before they know the outcome of the cap reform. the proposal suggests that the current five-year measure be converted into a single annual measure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of wine. clearness and timeliness of action are the watchwords of our policy in support of wine growers, for a europe which is friendly to the territories.
in writing. - i welcome the vote on mr dorfmann's report, which seeks to safeguard an important sector of excellence for italy and for europe. parliament gives more flexibility to member states so that the sector can also take final decisions before the reform of the cap 2014-2020 comes into force, a reform on which we are working intensively at the moment. today's vote is aimed at giving member states greater flexibility in deciding on national financial allocations in the wine sector. this is linked to the proposal for direct payments under the new cap.
in writing. - i fully supported mr dorfmann's report on the payment scheme for wine growers in view of the new cap which is due to come into force from 2014. i welcome the measures and elements which would allow for the gradual and harmonious application of the rules relating to vineyards. in my view, it was not possible to plan a five-year payment scheme and to overlap it with the period of the start of the new cap. i therefore believe that this has helped to build a lasting revival for the european wine sector.
in writing. − under the provisions already existing in the current cmos, member states may amend their five-year support programmes once a year as regards the part allocated to the single payment scheme. the commission proposal suggests transforming the current five-year measure into a single annual measure, applicable only for 2014, and provides for the possibility of a single transfer - which would represent a final and definitive decision - from 2015 onwards; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transitional period for the transitional period is not extended beyond the end of the transitional period.
in writing. - the report by mr dorfmann was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. the proposal by my colleague is to give the member states more flexibility in deciding on the national financial allocation in the wine sector. it also calls for any reform in the wine sector to be implemented through the new common agricultural policy 2014-2020. member states will have the possibility to make a transfer in a single solution final and definitive decision from 2015 and may react to the commission proposal by deciding before 1 december 2012 to adjust the support to wine growers by transferring a certain amount of the national wine allocation to the direct payments budget. this proposal must be seen in the light of the proposal for direct payments of the new cap, which allows wine growers to obtain payment entitlements for their wine-growing areas and does not allow the amounts transferred from the wine envelope to be allocated to wine growers alone, in view of the objective of convergence of the value of all benefits.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report, as it provides for the possibility for member states to grant decoupled aid to wine growers under the single payment scheme as part of their national support programmes. in substance, decoupled support for viticulture should be extended to 2014. i think it is important that the committee on agriculture and rural development has reiterated its position against the abolition of planting rights in this sector. the real risk is the collapse in the quality of wine products and consequently a significant loss of income for farmers who base their activity on the production of high-end wines.
in writing. − the internal market information system (imi) has been in operation since 2008 as a free service to member states to improve the exchange of information in the internal market. the imi system still operates on the basis of a commission decision and a commission recommendation, in the absence of a single legal instrument. this has been a major obstacle to further expansion of imi, which should have been overcome long ago. we have seen that the system has worked perfectly in relation to the vocational qualifications directive and the services directive. the system has proved to be a fast and secure means for cross-border information exchange and administrative cooperation for over 6 000 authorities currently registered in all eu member states and eea countries. i therefore welcome the proposals contained in the report and hope that the extension of the application of imi to other areas will be in the clear interest of the citizens and the internal market.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report, in agreement with the commission proposal and with the additional, non-redundant caveats contained in the proposed amendments on the secure handling of data. the interoperability of administrative systems, which are the daily interlocutors of citizens and businesses, is essential for the growth of markets, the spread of a transnational culture and a european civil conscience. although there were around 2 000 exchanges of information in 2010, it is likely that increased awareness of the benefits of imi will lead to a rapid increase in the flow of information, especially if the system is extended to other, more complex regulatory areas. in view of the growth in the number of potential and actual users and the volume of data exchanged, it is reasonable to address the processing and confidentiality aspects of information in advance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the internal market information system (imi) because i believe that it can be a useful tool for improving administrative cooperation, also through the novelty contained in the text, which aims to extend the system to additional administrative bodies. this useful tool certainly has room for improvement, and i hope that we can continue to move in this direction, given the crucial role it plays in facilitating communication between businesses and administrations, with all that this entails in terms of the competitiveness of our businesses. the application of the latest technologies and the use of networks will also allow the information system, which has been in place since 2008, to improve its effectiveness by making itself available to all 27 member states.
in writing. − a proper exchange of information between member states' authorities is necessary to complete the single market. imi has proved to be a reliable and efficient tool in the two areas where it is already used, namely the professional qualifications directive and the services directive. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the internal market information system has been in use since 2008 as a free service to member states to improve the exchange of information in the internal market. the system is a fast and secure means for cross-border information exchange and cooperation between over 6000 authorities currently registered in all eu member states. the future extension of imi to other areas of european union law will promote the creation of a 'true electronic network of european administrations'. a proper exchange of information across borders between the different authorities in the member states is essential in the efforts to complete the single market. the imi has proved to be a reliable tool in the two areas where it is already used, namely the professional qualifications directive and the services directive; the proposal under consideration will further unlock the full potential of imi in the interest of citizens and the internal market. i would like to express the legitimate concern expressed by many citizens: article 13 of the proposed regulation introduces the procedure for the retention of personal data processed in imi for a period of 18 months from the closure of an administrative cooperation procedure and extends the retention period of data significantly from six months to five years.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system (imi regulation). the proposal aims to establish a set of common rules which will allow the full potential of imi to be exploited further, i.e. to facilitate the smooth exchange of information across borders between the different authorities of the member states while ensuring a higher level of data protection than traditional communication channels. for these reasons, i regard the proposal for a regulation as an essential element in completing the single market in the clear interest of the citizens.
in writing. − the internal market information system (imi), which has been in use since 2008 as a free service to member states to improve the exchange of information in the internal market, has proved to be a fast and secure means for cross-border information exchange and administrative cooperation. however, this system still operates on the basis of a commission decision and recommendation and therefore lacks a single legal instrument. considering this shortcoming to be a serious obstacle to the further development and improvement of the imi system, considering the proper exchange of cross-border information between the different authorities of the member states to be essential in the efforts to complete the single market, and hoping for a future extension of imi to other areas of european union legislation, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the regulation, as the internal market information system, which has been available to member states free of charge since 2008, is designed to improve the exchange of information on internal market rules. for years, there has been debate on how to extend this system, which has proved to be an effective tool, a channel for the exchange of information in several languages, which ensures a higher level of data protection than traditional communication channels. the trilogues focused on the definition of comitology procedures, which were redefined in response to requests from the member states.
in writing. - i support the bielan report because i believe it is essential to ensure that common rules are established for the functioning of the internal market information system (imi). imi has already proven to be a reliable and efficient tool in the context of the professional qualifications directive and the services directive. this proposal will allow the full potential of imi to be exploited in the interests of citizens and the internal market.
in writing. - while in non-eu countries affected by the current crisis, the fight for growth and jobs is governed by economic and financial levers, both legal and monetary, at a single political and administrative level, at european level we continue to suffer the political delays of an eu that still fails to overcome the hurdle of unitary governance. this situation is aggravated by the fact that, despite the strong attempt to strengthen coordination between the member states on their budgets, a decisive intervention in favour of the coordination of tax systems, especially on the direct taxation system, remains excluded from the political debate. this delay creates fiscal competition which may also be seen as dumping, which has a negative impact on the stability of enterprises, including in a geographical sense, and which is likely to have a particular impact on already weak areas and on the social responsibility of enterprises. it is for this reason that i regret that the part of the amendment which highlighted the risks of tax competition to the detriment of consolidating national budgets and which proposed the introduction of a minimum rate of corporation tax for this purpose was not adopted. i hope this delay can be made up in the near future .
in writing. the text of mrs gáll-pelcz aims to amend council directive 2003/49/ec of 3 june 2003 on the common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of member states. the abolition of taxes, whether levied at source or after deduction, on interest and royalty payments in the member state from which they originate is the most appropriate solution to ensure a simplified and more transparent tax system. such a system is all the more desirable in the direction of greater surveillance of tax evasion and, at the same time, of a tax system that is transparent and does not stifle businesses and citizens.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the common tax regime applicable to interest and royalty payments between subsidiaries of different member states because i fully agree with the main objective of the text amending the 2011 council directive; to combat tax evasion at european level by improving technical regulations. the econ commission had already approved the text on the 'common consolidated corporate tax base', demonstrating that a common tax system for associated companies would lead the countries of the union towards fiscal cooperation. with a regulated system that can clarify company accounts and hold companies accountable for illegal exemptions, tax substitutions and other forms of fraud, the fight against tax evasion has become a priority throughout the union.
in writing. - the council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states has been amended on many occasions in recent years, but some technical improvements are still needed for clarity. given that recent estimates show that tax fraud and tax evasion represent a significant amount of revenue foregone by eu governments, it is necessary to amend the directive in order to reduce the possibilities of voluntary non-taxation, double taxation, fraud or tax evasion in the member states. although the question of the 10% participation requirements and the question of the transitional periods is not changed in the rapporteur's draft report, and in the hope that any possibility of tax evasion, tax substitution or unlawful tax exemption will be eliminated, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the commission should set out in detail the 'commitments for european growth' under the european semester and the necessary structural reforms. the european semester should be an opportunity for each member state to give an account of its commitments to the eu 2020 strategy, the euro plus pact and other important eu objectives.
in writing. − the report highlights that in some member states there is both a lack of bone marrow and difficulties in finding suitable cell and tissue donors for patients, mainly due to a lack of cooperation in the field of cross-border donation. i therefore welcome all the measures to promote effective crossborder cooperation in this area, while stressing the need for strict controls to ensure maximum traceability and transparency in the system. i believe that donation should be voluntary and made on a non-profit basis. i am therefore concerned about the problems caused by the existence of numerous websites allowing gamete cells to be sold or bought online. legislation to regulate this sector should be considered as a priority in order to prevent the possible emergence of an online black market. in particular, as regards the donation of umbilical cord blood from which stem cells are derived, evidence is increasingly emerging that the cells thus obtained can be used to treat serious diseases, including childhood diseases. in order to optimise the potential of cord blood, i welcome the possibility of the competent authorities developing awareness campaigns aimed primarily at expectant mothers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr yannakoudakis' report because i share the view that the donation of multiple tissues, reproductive and non-reproductive cells should be voluntary and free of charge. i also think it is important to support research and awareness raising on cord blood donation: it produces stem cells that can be used to treat a variety of diseases, including many childhood diseases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text proposed by mrs yannakoudakis because, although health remains a matter of national competence, it is right to seek a european approach to the debate, looking at the role that this parliament and the european community can play in defining common rules in this area. this is all the more a thorny issue to tackle given the regulatory differences that exist in eu countries. however, i believe that it is the duty of all of us to work together to combat debilitating diseases. we must therefore work to avoid speculation and anomalies which unfortunately risk breaking out today. the ethical principles which have inspired the european community so far in the matter of donating and using the human body for therapeutic purposes are essentially the principles of gratuitousness, solidarity, safety and non-profit-making, and i believe that this text reflects the main aspects in several parts of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to promote voluntary tissue and cell donation. although this is a matter for the most part of national competence, i believe it is essential that coordination between the member states be improved at european level, especially as regards the exchange of best practice. i agree that the donation system must remain absolutely free, with no economic incentives, anonymous and managed by public bodies to avoid clandestine exchanges and prohibited sales via the web. i also believe that it is more urgent than ever to identify ethical standards to improve trade between member countries.
in writing. - the data show that the supply of tissues and cells is insufficient to meet the immediate needs and requirements of individuals. in fact, those who sign up often face long waiting lists. the legislative initiative provides that the existing practices for compensation, incentives, promotion and publicity, as well as procurement and levies, must be based on the principle of altruism, i.e. voluntary and non-profit-making. although member states have already adopted legislative directives on donation, there is a need for harmonisation between member states, particularly as regards the compensation and promotion of such donations. i hope that this initiative will bring about greater efficiency and transparency, both at national level and in terms of interstate cooperation.
in writing. the issue of illegal organ trafficking is as topical and urgent as ever. the phenomenon, in a period of severe crisis and growing poverty such as we are experiencing, is then experiencing heavy accentuations. the report under consideration has the merit of showing that it intends to keep a high guard in this respect and to tackle the problem with increasing determination and with the aim of proposing concrete solutions. in this sense, the implementation of receptive facilities for tissue and cell donation, an adequate level of information and social and health care that is absolutely suitable to the needs of the case, are concrete actions to be evaluated positively.
in writing. - stressing the argument that donation - in this case of multiple tissues, reproductive cells and non-reproductive cells - should be voluntary and carried out on a non-profit basis in a transparent environment, and considering that health care is largely a member state competence, there is now a need to complement existing practices in the member states and to develop areas such as cross-border donation. in addition, taking into account the shortage of bone marrow and sperm in some member states and the difficulties in many countries to find suitable donors of cells and tissues compatible for patients belonging to ethnic minority groups, there is a need to increase the supply of tissues and cells through the exchange of best practices in relation to joint operations, ethical standards and awareness raising on donation. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i supported this own-initiative report by voting in favour, because i believe it is essential to make every effort to combat discrimination against women, particularly in the world of work. this report focuses specifically on combating discrimination against women in the green economy, which is a new and growing sector with enormous potential, especially in view of the serious economic crisis we are experiencing. i therefore support the call for the member states to provide specialised training courses in areas such as renewable energy and to promote information campaigns on eu-funded programmes to increase the participation of women in green economy jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gustafsson report on the role of women in the green economy, as the development of the green economy involves the creation of new jobs, particularly in sectors dominated by men and where women's participation remains limited. in analysing data and statistics on different areas of employment in the european union, i have noted with regret that the concentration in 'green' jobs is typically male. in most cases, women affected by the transition to new job opportunities are underpaid compared to men. inequality in access to the various green trades and professions is a threat to equality in the transition to a greener labour market. in order to facilitate women's access to the new green jobs, i believe it is essential that the commission and the member states promote specialised training courses in areas such as renewable energy, giving concrete opportunities for women to enter the workforce in remote areas where unemployment is particularly high among the young population. i refer, for example, to the potential for women in the field of solar or wind energy in the southern regions of europe.
in writing. − defining a green or sustainable economy as a system in which the productive capacity of ecosystems is preserved, while creating a society in which basic human needs are guaranteed for all, which of course includes equal opportunities for women and men, and considering that the imbalance between women and men in political and economic decision-making is considerable, it is necessary that countries take all necessary measures in order to achieve a gender balance. given the different roles, consumption patterns and environmental impact of men and women, and the fact that this diversity of behaviour is a component of the development of our gender identity and helps to strengthen it, i am in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − within the european union, women are still subject to severe discrimination in the labour market, even in an expanding sector such as the green economy. member states should therefore provide for specialised courses in the field of renewable energy to promote and facilitate women's access to new jobs. the text presented by mr gustafsson also stresses the need to promote information campaigns on eu funds in this area with the aim of increasing the participation of women at all levels of employment in the transition to the green economy.
in writing. − in 2010, employment in the service sector accounted for 69.4% of total employment in the union and 83.1% of the female labour force was employed in the service sector compared to 58.1% of the male labour force. despite the many legal initiatives taken by the union to pursue the objective of equal pay for men and women, this gap persists and progress is extremely slow. in the european union, women earn about 17.1% less than their male colleagues, while the gender pay gap in the member states ranges from 3.2% to 30.9%. even less encouraging is the fact that the increase in women's educational attainment does not always coincide with their rise in the hierarchy of employment or with improvements in their working conditions. in view of this situation, it is estimated that it will take over 40 years to achieve a significant balance in the labour market between men and women! in this context, i would stress the need for member states to have appropriate work-life balance policies and, last but not least, to have care services compatible with the flexible working hours which, according to recent studies, are gradually becoming established in the service sector.
in writing. - i support the report by mr garcía pérez, which seeks to support the working conditions of women in the service sector, both in terms of pay and working conditions. if on the one hand we must push for women's wages to be increasingly equal to men's wages, on the other hand it is essential to guarantee women safe working conditions, both from a legal point of view, since women employed, for example, in domestic and personal care services are often forced to work underwater without a contract, and from the point of view of safety and respect for their dignity as women and human beings.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on working conditions for women in the service sector, as it is crucial to act promptly to improve the conditions for women in this sector, given that 80% of women in the eu labour market are employed in the service sector and still suffer from significant discrimination both in access to technical and highly qualified positions and in terms of pay. i believe that in order to improve the conditions of women in the service sector, it is necessary for member states to facilitate access to vocational retraining programmes under the european social fund to offer computer training courses in order to reduce the digital gender gap and enable women to access numerous high-tech employment opportunities. finally, the eu must put in place measures to transform precarious work, which women often do in the service sector, into work with rights and work with real prospects for training and professional growth, particularly at this stage of the economic crisis when the potential of human resources must be fully exploited to revive the european economy.
in writing. − whereas in 2010 employment in the service sector represented 69.4% of total employment in the eu, and whereas the majority of the female labour force is employed in the service sector, i.e. 83.1% compared to 58.1% of the male labour force; stressing the limited opportunities for women to adapt to labour market requirements in a modern and highly globalised world, where a key attribute of the worker is mobility and the ease of movement to take up jobs outside their place of residence, which in the case of women, who are more involved in childcare and the home, is often impossible and does not allow them to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the labour market; and given that women in the eu earn about 17.1% less than men, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i support this report because i do believe that economic growth must be based, as a matter of priority, on education, innovation and appropriate social policies. i also share the opinion that the economic costs of educational under-performance, including school drop-out and social inequalities, are significantly higher than the costs of the financial crisis. for these reasons these issues require an adequate public funding to guarantee equal access to education without any kind of social discrimination. in addition, it is fundamental to bear in mind that providing all children with quality early-childhood facilities and education is an investment in the future and provides a great benefit both for the individual and for society.
in writing. − this report suggests the priority areas for european political cooperation, highlighting in particular how cooperation in education and training can contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the report concludes that there is a need both for greater efforts to achieve the europe 2020 strategy target on early school leaving and for improving basic skills in europe. although it contains useful recommendations, i believe that a number of key situations in the union have not been adequately addressed. in fact, with reference to our single market, a potentially enormous obstacle to a citizen's ability to work anywhere in the union is language. multilingualism is a vital part of the functioning of our system and, although many countries have good resources for language education, i believe that an assessment is needed to consider how the eu could further contribute to its spread. i would also like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of education for children in the early years of life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the honeyball report, which aims to make europe competitive again by investing in the development of new skills and competences. this strategy will be developed through the et 2020 instrument, which aims to reduce the drop-out rate to 10% in the 18-24 age group by 2020. fundamental to achieving this is a renewed focus on investment in early childhood policies. in 1996, the commission called on the member states to invest at least 1% of gdp in services relating to early childhood care and education. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of education and training in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i strongly support any measure to reduce school drop-out and to strengthen support for higher education through lifelong learning and the promotion of cross-border mobility. this report, which is published every two years, is very useful for taking stock of the situation at european level and for encouraging the member states to do better in a field within their competence and to promote the achievement of common european objectives through the coordination of activities. in addition, in this period of severe economic crisis and austerity policies, the call for no less funding for education is particularly important because educating today's children and young people is an investment in the future. the year 2020 is just around the corner and we must start sowing today in order to reap the rewards later.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs honeyball's report because i firmly believe that investing in education and training, in a time of crisis such as the present one, is increasingly necessary and not just for the achievement of the objectives linked to the europe 2020 strategy. the cuts in these areas by many member states are putting at risk the skills and capabilities of the management class of tomorrow. in this sense, i welcome the efforts made in the report to promote a cooperative approach not only between the member states but also between the education system and the industrial and entrepreneurial system. it is essential that enterprises are increasingly in dialogue with the different levels of education and training in order to ensure that young european students develop specific skills and competences that will make them competitive and ready to enter the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by ms honeyball on education, training and europe 2020 for a number of reasons. not only does this report encourage programmes that will help accomplish the europe 2020 strategy, but many of the provisions also target issues that have arisen from the current economic crisis. the focus on lifelong learning (lll) concentrates on developing a workforce that continues to accrue skills even after formal schooling has ended. the report also draws attention to the current status of youth unemployment in the eu. it is necessary to combat this growing problem by creating a more efficient school system and encouraging meaningful vocational education and training. additionally, it is important to establish a system of early childhood education and care as this is the foundation for a student’s future success in the labour market and reduces educational costs in the long term.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. member states should be encouraged to contribute to spending on education, training, youth, lifelong learning, research, innovation and linguistic and cultural diversity as an investment in future growth and economic balance.
in writing. − building on the previous work programme 'education and training 2010', the 'education and training 2020' (et 2020) programme provides the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. the joint report on the overall situation of education and training in the eu published every two years by the ministries of education and the european commission highlights the need for smart investment alongside policy reforms and increased efforts to achieve the europe 2020 strategy target on early school leaving and tertiary education. the finding that for most eu citizens lifelong learning is not a reality; and the need for transnational mobility to acquire new skills. i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the european year of the environment.
in writing. - unfortunately, lifelong learning is not yet a reality for all european citizens and the european education system has several shortcomings: insufficient language skills, for example, continue to be a major barrier to learning mobility. it should also be noted that in times of crisis many member states are tempted to cut education and training budgets, not considering that the economic costs of a poor education system in the future are significantly higher than the costs of the financial crisis. i therefore expressed my support for mr honeyball's report, which aims to highlight how cooperation in education and training, through effective joint efforts, can contribute to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i support the report by mr cavada, which aims to set the framework for audiovisual works and their online distribution, by addressing key and continuing issues such as: the copyright certainty, calling for the avoidance of disparities in treatment between online and offline services; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. − the rapporteur presents a comprehensive analysis of the problems (especially fiscal and legal) and prospects of the audiovisual industry and in particular of new media, with effective observations and shareable recommendations; i therefore support the report. the central theme is that of communication in the post-analogue era, fragmented into a thousand markets, which are however affected by the general phenomenon of convergence of platforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. new challenges and new opportunities, accessible to industries, even small ones, with room for creativity and initiative by authors; the committee of the regions has also called for the introduction of a european social security system for the unemployed, which would be a good way of ensuring that the unemployed are not discriminated against. reducing administrative and bureaucratic burdens; combating audiovisual piracy; net neutrality; interoperability of platforms and free access to content and markets. a final reflection on the issue of technological literacy, a problem that has perhaps been overestimated in the light of some raw data on internet use, but which nevertheless continues to raise sensitive issues of participation and citizenship that must be duly considered.
in writing. - mr cavada's report on the distribution of audiovisual works in the eu raises some problematic issues concerning the legal, accessibility and rights protection aspects of the sector covered by the report. the importance and role of audiovisual materials in learning and information processes is well known. however, with the widespread use of the internet, a range of problems arise in relation to the accessibility of such works and, above all, the effective protection of copyright. the case law in this area should therefore ensure the widest possible dissemination of audiovisual content, while protecting authors and holders of intellectual property rights. the proposals identified in this report meet with my favourable opinion and seem to go in the most correct direction to tackle the problem.
in writing. − given the growing need to promote a compelling online offer of audiovisual content and to encourage innovation, it is essential that new distribution methods are flexible to allow the emergence of new business models and to make digital products accessible to all citizens of the union, regardless of their member state of residence. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − considering that the artistic expression of creators in the audiovisual and film sector is not simple, since it is both an art and an industry, it is important to create opportunities and tools for the dissemination of european films, since the european union must first of all be oriented towards education and culture. furthermore, taking into account that the cultural and creative industries represent a significant number of jobs within the union and their economic contribution in terms of value added corresponds to 2,5% of gdp, equal to that of the automotive sector; i am therefore in favour of the creation of an international system for the identification of cinematographic, audiovisual and multimedia works, and stressing the need to adapt european law to the realities of the internet and the digital age, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr cavada's text, which aims to increase the competitiveness of the european audiovisual sector through the development of online services and new technologies to promote cultural diversity within the union. it is important to recall in this connection, as the rapporteur has stressed, the need to obtain fair remuneration based on individual contracts and collective rights management mechanisms for authors and performers who rely on the internet to promote their works.
the agenda shall include the presentation by the council of its position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2013 (2012/2719 ((rsp)).
the commission is not the rapporteur for the budget. - mr president, mr mavroyiannis, commissioner lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of the council's position on the 2013 budget shows a major contradiction between what was stated by the heads of state and government on 28 and 29 june and what was decided at coreper and the general affairs council. on the one hand, there has been talk of investments for growth, development and employment, while on the other hand, the biggest cuts, the most significant cuts, have been made in those budget lines which finance projects and policies which are capable of creating growth and jobs, especially for our young european citizens. as i have said on other occasions, i am aware of the financial difficulties that each member state is facing within its own borders, but the response to the crisis - as the council has also emphasized in public statements, and therefore at the highest political level - must be 'more europe' and not 'less europe'. it is therefore not possible to think of setting a level of payments as the council did that is considerably lower a priori; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind the president of the council that this sum is determined by the commission on the basis of estimates made by the member states, which are then revised downwards by the commission, so that the need indicated in the draft budget in terms of payment appropriations, that 6.8 per cent increase compared to the 2012 budget, is not an arbitrary figure but a realistic indication of the resources needed made by the commission on the basis of the indications given by the member states to meet all the commitments made from 2007 to the present. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president barroso himself considered it appropriate to address a letter to the heads of state or government expressing concern at the crosscutting cuts made by the council in its reading. i think it is no exaggeration to say that we are facing a problem of credibility and reliability in europe, and that is why parliament will be closely monitoring, with the help of the commission which has the updated data, the development of payments for 2012. i hope that the interinstitutional meeting scheduled for 26 september will be a useful exercise in defining the real needs and avoiding the unfortunate events of the last budgetary procedure. our idea, in order to meet the real needs of the citizens, is to propose a responsible reading which will ensure that the european budget is endowed with the resources needed to invest in growth and development.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome, of course, the remarks made by salvador garriga and the attitudes expressed by both rapporteurs, mr la via and mr vaughan. this is a good starting point for determining the appropriate level of financing for europe for 2013, and it is in line with the decision of the heads of state asking for investment in growth, competitiveness and jobs. i believe that the council – under the leadership of andreas mavroyiannis – is also ready to enter the dialogue for a timely agreement. by timely agreement, i mean a timely prospect for investment for 2013.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, i would also like to thank mr garriga polledo, mr la via and mr vaughan for their very constructive remarks and, of course, i would like to thank my friend commissioner lewandowski for his comments – even though on this one we are not exactly on the same wavelength, but that is normal – so i thank you all for this very fruitful exchange of views. it shows that our presentation of the council’s position on the draft budget for 2013 has allowed all of us to better understand the respective positions and our mutual consensus. this is the first precondition to be met on our way to reaching an agreement on the 2013 budget in the coming months, which has to be within the deadlines that are set for us by the treaty. i think that this time around it is of paramount importance, given the circumstances. today’s discussion was a very good starting-point on our way forward. this year’s budgetary procedure is taking place under extremely difficult circumstances, so we need to all work together in a constructive manner in order to succeed. we need, of course, a realistic and balanced budget for 2013. the cyprus presidency of the council, and myself in particular – because mr lewandowski referred to me – are just humble servants on this issue, but we will do our best to get a very positive result. at the same time, i take good note of the persisting divergence between the commission and the council, on the one hand, and between the positions of the council and those of parliament, on the other. we fully respect all of those positions. as mr lewandowski said, we intend to meet parliament and the commission on 26 september 2012 in order to discuss the level of payments for the current year. on mr la via’s comments, i think that you know that in the council and the european council – and i say this very candidly from my experience having had bilateral contact with all member states in july – everybody, all 27 member states, agree on the need for the budget to be at the service of growth and jobs. everybody agrees that we need to have quality of spending and better spending. although it might sound ironic, those who are talking about better spending are also those who are asking for cuts, so we need to be aware that the interpretation is not exactly the same for everybody. on the contradiction in the european council’s position for the combat for growth and jobs, we can assure you also that the council in its position has left unchanged the total amount that was announced as being available from the 2013 budget – the eur 55 billion out of the total of eur 120 billion. this amount is there to be used accordingly. i would like to add that, in its traditional role as an honest broker, we rely on the commission’s support in this during the entire budgetary procedure. as has been the case in previous years, i count sincerely on commissioner lewandowski to help us find a proper way forward. i would like to thank you very much for your attention and wish you every success in your examination of the council’s position in the coming weeks. i am looking forward to our negotiations in october and november.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy (article 36 teu) (2012/2540 (rsp)) and the report by elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy (2012/2050 (ini)) (a7-0252/2012).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, i agree with what mr brok has said and with his report, that there is progress in the development of the european external action service which, together with his personal work, is beginning to give substance and identity to the eu's common foreign and security policy and external action, along the lines of that comprehensive multilateral approach based on the plurality of instruments, which is the only possible method of dealing with the challenges of today's world. in this context, i think it is acceptable that you have taken a balanced approach to sensitive issues such as syria and iran, based on a correct awareness of the delicate system of interdependence and the contradiction between the state and national religious dimensions that characterizes the middle east scene. that said, of course much remains to be done on the way to better identification of priorities: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the common foreign and security policy, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the common foreign and security policy. i believe that we can also work together on these aspects with a view to the revision of the decision on the external action service, which we will work on in a constructive spirit.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, in expressing my appreciation for your efforts in recent times, i would like to emphasize once again what is perhaps our main expectation with regard to the cfsp, and which is made clear by a passage in the brok report which states that 'the eu's ability to influence the international order depends not only on the consistency of its policies but also on a truly strategic conception of european foreign policy, which must unite and coordinate all the member states on the basis of the same set of priorities so that they speak with one voice'. madam high representative, the problem for us is exactly this: what is your strategy for imposing priorities on member countries? the crisis has taught us that to get out of it we must set priorities, which we have done: the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. what is your strategy on foreign policy issues? how can we move towards a - i do not say federal - dimension of the european union's foreign policy, but one which makes us realise that we have set out very precise priorities and that all the member states of the union feel subordinated to them?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is called upon to play an increasingly important role in the context of geopolitical changes affecting large areas of the world. i believe that raising the profile and quality of european foreign policy is an increasingly urgent need, especially as many of these changes are taking place not far from our continent. to achieve this, we need to convince member states to invest in the european common foreign policy by strengthening the choices made under the lisbon treaty. we must move from the present activism, which is undeniable and is reflected in the many trips you have made to various parts of the world, to a greater role, capable not only of leaving its mark but also of changing the existing balance in favour of european foreign policy. it would be desirable to have a special session in this parliament for the discussion of foreign policy and the strategic horizons to be achieved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in reality our discussion is only recording our impotence in the face of the tragedy that is unfolding in syria, and i would like to know whether we are merely taking note of this state of affairs or whether we are going to implement an appropriate and strong political initiative that seeks to restart diplomatic action and adopt the necessary choices on the ground, starting from the humanitarian corridor. europe cannot stand by and watch what is happening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. is it true that you, mrs ashton, seem to be affected by the divisions and inconsistencies in the member states' chanceries? if so, it must be said. it is necessary that a loud voice be raised here to all european governments so that they can give coherent support to your work and your european action, and i would like to hear that voice clearly from you here in the european parliament today, madam vice-president.
in writing. i join my fellow members who signed the joint resolution on syria to call on the international community to intervene to try to stop the massacre that is taking place every day under our media eyes. since the beginning of the unrest in march 2011, nearly 20,000 people have been killed, many of them children and defenseless women, targeted by the men of president assad's regime. the number of refugees is much higher. hundreds of people are continually pouring into neighbouring countries, creating instability in geographical areas already marked by considerable political instability. in syria, there are also about 3 million people in need of urgent assistance, as the syrian government has cut off access to food, water and medicine. i regret to say that the united nations has so far been unable to deal adequately with the situation which seems to be getting out of hand day by day, until kofi annan resigned. the syrian regime has now lost all credibility and legitimacy as the representative of the syrian people and it would be desirable for president assad to step back.
mr president, commissioner, one of the facts we have to deal with is certainly the depletion of fisheries resources, on which the various available data converge. some fish stocks are seriously threatened and therefore ensuring sustainable fishing must be the objective to be achieved if we want to increase the productivity of our seas in the future. today's debate anticipates some of the central themes of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident. fisheries must continue to be an important source of employment and family income.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, every year millions of people in the european union are victims of crime. according to eurostat, there are about 30 million crimes, many of which, unfortunately, are not reported for fear of retaliation. crime often affects not only the victim but also, indirectly, the family and relatives. whether it is a mugging, robbery, theft, murder, sexual assault, or even terrorist attack, victims all have the same need: to be treated with respect and dignity. the right to support, the right to be protected from physical harm, the right to access justice and to be compensated for damages are all essential rights that every justice system must guarantee. today europe is finally proposing the adoption of a directive which will guarantee a common legal framework for the protection of all victims, thus making a concrete contribution to removing the obstacles which still prevent their genuine crossborder protection. the legislative text aims to strengthen confidence in the judicial system by encouraging the possibility of having the protection programme already applied in another member state. this right will eventually also be enjoyed by the family members of the offended person. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new legislation. so enough of crimes going unpunished, victims without justice and assistance, executioners free and not in prison. the text we are voting on tomorrow is a step forward towards building a model of justice where the institutions fight to defend the rights of citizens, ensuring that no executioner can remain free because of the inability of dialogue between the different judicial systems.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate my colleagues jiménez-becerril barrio and parvanova, the commissioner and the council on this step forward in european legal civilization which we are making with this directive, which is also a way of honouring the victims of 9/11. i think that, after the directives on trafficking in human beings, child pornography and the european protection order, it is very important that this directive focuses on the vulnerable person in a holistic way. it is very important that all countries define a common basis of essential rights, starting with the right to understand and be understood in one's own language, access to services, information, compensation, in short justice for oneself and one's family. it is also important that specific reference has been made in this directive, thanks also to the femm committee, to the specific nature of violence against children and women. i hope that a major effort will be made in this respect to train and update the culture of judges and lawyers, and i conclude, mr president, by saying that we must also ensure that there is no second victimisation, which is often done through the media, which, without self-regulation, disseminate images of minors, exposing them to further violence and violating their privacy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs jiménez-becerril barrio and mrs parvanova, and commissioner reding for the excellent work they have done together with the committees responsible. as all those who have spoken have said, this directive finally puts the victim, the individual, the citizen, at the centre of attention. i am referring in particular to the most vulnerable victims, the victims of gender-based violence and, above all, the youngest victims of crime, who often suffer from what is known as 'double victimization'. this directive will give more strength and effectiveness to other measures such as the directive on the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography online, for which i was rapporteur for the european parliament, which states the absolute need to support and protect children who are victims of sexual abuse. the new directive thus completes a path of justice and law that strengthens the value of citizenship.
thank you. martin, i give the floor to president barroso.
president of the commission. − mr president, i did not ask for the floor. i prefer to respond at the end of the debate, after listening to all the members of parliament who want to take the floor.
at this point i ask the group chairmen if they intend to... then let's start with the catch the eye. i recommend that we limit our speeches to one minute, so that we can give the floor to a very large number of colleagues. i beg your pardon, but we'll give the floor to the council.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, first of all let me thank you for the opportunity, on behalf of the council, to thank president barroso for his inspired and inspiring speech, in which he offered us a clear analysis of the state of the european union today and also signalled various initiatives that will help weave ariadne’s thread which will guide us further on the slow, but i believe certain, road out of the crisis. i am very proud to mention that the council is not only represented here today by the presidency but also by some distinguished colleagues, members of the council on behalf of their countries, and this is in itself a very strong signal. i would also like to welcome the opportunity to hear the reactions from the different political groups within this house. it is a privilege for all of us to be able to debate these issues and discuss the challenges which we face in europe today. i have heard a range of views from different speakers, but i sense that – whatever their different views – the vast majority in this house are committed to making sure that from the current crisis we build a better and more solid europe. from the outset the founders of the european union aspired to create an ever closer union, a europe which is ‘solidly united and constructed around a strong framework’. schuman’s words remain particularly relevant to us today. more than ever europe needs to be united. we need to safeguard the strong institutional framework within which we work. and we must continue to ensure smooth and efficient cooperation between us. the cyprus presidency is committed to ensuring this, and committed in particular to working constructively, both within the council and in osmosis with the european council and president van rompuy, but also – importantly – with both the commission and parliament. ultimately all our decisions have to be about making europe a better place for its citizens. that means defending values of equality, pluralism, freedom and justice which lie at the heart of our unique union. that means social cohesion and solidarity. president barroso mentioned also fairness and equity, indeed fundamental values that must be the basis for all our decisions in order to deliver a better future. we have to use the opportunities presented by the current difficulties to realise the true potential of the eu. we must in particular seize the opportunity to take the steps which are essential if we are to build a better europe. what does that mean in practice? i will mention just a few key examples. we must firstly secure an agreement on the mff, our main investment tool – not any agreement, but an agreement which shows that the union’s resources are being invested for the benefit of its citizens and in particular for its younger generation. it must focus on innovation and competitiveness, so providing the momentum for increased growth and the creation of jobs. a prompt agreement will send a strong signal that the eu is serious about growth and that it is ready to take decisive steps to invest in its future. president barroso referred this morning to the report on the development of the emu. this will be another vital step in strengthening the union. we must seize the initiative presented by this report and take the opportunity to create a stronger and more mature economic and monetary union, making institutional changes if needed and at the appropriate moment, in order to be better able to withstand the challenges from both within and outside. we must also establish the common european asylum system which will contribute to the building of a common area of protection, on the basis of solidarity and fair burden-sharing – a safe area for all citizens of the eu and fully in line with universal values. through warranted reforms and decisions as underlined by president barroso, we should restore credibility and confidence. the wise words of john kennedy more than fifty years ago are just as relevant to the eu today: ‘in a crisis, be aware of the danger – but recognise the opportunity’. we owe it to our younger generations in particular to create a prosperous europe, in which they can dream and aspire to fulfil those dreams. europe has never simply been about economic growth and indicators. we must also create a place where everyone in society is included, where our environment is allowed to flourish without the threat of pollution and climate change, where agriculture is the friend of the land and where human activity, in all its expressions, is allowed to flourish. our union is above all a place of respect, dignity and tolerance, of values and ideals. that is something which we should be proud of and protect. allow me to close by thanking again president barroso for his inspirational presentation of the state of the union, and for his leadership and vision. he can count firmly on the support of the council in this herculean task lying ahead. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a minute is not enough to make a comment, but perhaps it is enough to give a vote, and i would like to give the highest vote today to the president of the commission for the realism and vision he has shown. realism because acknowledging the mistakes made in the construction of the euro is not for everyone and can help to regain confidence at this time. the vision of a federal path, albeit of nation states, is not the end of federalism, it is the beginning. i would now like to make a comment on mr farage's violent attacks on mario draghi and then on mario monti. since my name is mario, i have a question: didn't someone named mario take farage's girlfriend when he was young?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was surprised to see that in his state of the union speech president barroso did not mention any data, any figures, any figures on the closure of companies, the dismissal of workers, the loss of competitiveness. she gave a solution: the united states of europe. sadly, the course of history proves otherwise. europe was more prosperous when the states had more sovereignty. perhaps the solution is not yours, but less europe, more prosperity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, you have spoken very well of the need to give a different shape to the european institutions, and that is because you know very well the state of impatience and disappointment which many european citizens have been experiencing over the last few months. i believe, however, that building a europe in which the member states share a concession of sovereignty to our institutions is important, but not enough to give confidence and hope to millions of people who are now unemployed, who are losing their jobs or who are seeing their living conditions increase dramatically. the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter is a sign that the council is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy.
mr president, i call for a rollcall vote on paragraph 4 because it refers to the request to the european commission to consider the possibility of establishing fish stocking areas.
mr president, too often in the european union victims of crime do not come forward because of fear or lack of confidence in the institutions. the text voted today aims to strengthen the rights of victims of crime and to guarantee them the same level of protection, assistance and access to justice in all eu countries, with particular attention to those victims who are at high risk of further harm or intimidation during criminal proceedings. it is therefore of particular importance that the status of victim be recognised, not only for persons who have suffered harm as a result of a crime, but also for the family members and the person who has died as a result of the crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very much in favour of this report because when i was a regional councillor in piedmont a few years ago i was personally involved in the drafting of a regional law which provided for a number of facilities, awards and services for victims of crime. i think it is right that the european union and the member states should recognise victims of crime as subjects to be protected and helped, particularly along the immediate psychological path, but also during any criminal proceedings and until the full restoration of normal living conditions. all victims must have the same rights, be treated with respect and dignity, be protected from repeat offence, and have access to support services, justice and compensation. particular attention must be paid to minors, victims of sexual abuse and those crimes which are particularly heinous.
mr president, the four dossiers which have been approved today are a clear sign of the european parliament's determination to make a decisive contribution to supporting a sector - the fisheries sector - which is in fact suffering from a number of difficulties. i voted in favour of this because i believe that coordinated action is essential, just as i believe that a regionalisation approach is absolutely necessary to calibrate this action in the best way possible with reference to the individual territories. the supply chain must be shortened, trade opportunities increased, fleets modernised and, in line with tradition, a sector where environmental sustainability must be combined with economic viability must be modernised and developed. we are waiting for the framework regulation and finally the application dossier on the funds for the further acceleration we think is necessary.
mr president, i voted in favour of the elmar brok report, although i do not conceal from myself the serious difficulties and the obvious limitations of the european union's foreign policy. i would like to stress two points which are of particular concern to me. the first concerns the arms trade. we have set ourselves the objective of non-proliferation and disarmament, and at the same time we have very inadequate regulations on arms export control. what we say we want to do is then denied and contradicted by our behavior. the second area in which our limitations are quite evident is that of conflict prevention, which should make it possible to consolidate peace. what happened in the mediterranean - what has been improperly called the arab spring - shows that we did not catch on in time to what was happening in those countries and the union's foreign policy was not able to prevent the situation from becoming truly dramatic for millions of people. i hope that the future of our foreign policy will be more effective than it has been in recent months.
mr president, the reform of the common fisheries policy is a necessary choice and can no longer be postponed. europe is overfishing and often underfishing. if we are to safeguard marine biological resources, preserve the marine ecosystem and ensure the survival of the fishing industry, we must give overexploited fish stocks time to repopulate. but today, by a few votes, the shortsighted vision of those who want to maintain the status quo and continue to condemn our sea and the entire fishing industry to certain death has prevailed in this house. for these reasons i voted against the report on the reform of the common fisheries policy. we need a coherent reform, one which allows for the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and not a watered-down text with no prospects for the future. multiannual management plans and a precise timetable are needed with the establishment of a network of protected reserves. sanctions should be imposed on those member states which do not comply with the rules, carry out insufficient checks, exceed their quotas and do not provide reliable data. more protection of fish in our seas means more jobs for european fishermen, but there are still people in this house who have not understood that.
in writing. - according to eurostat data, 30 million crimes against persons or property are committed in the european union every year, and many of these go unreported. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. furthermore, as estimated by the european commission, the total cost of crime is €233 billion, and this is due not only to the damage of each crime, but to the lack of adequate victim support services to help victims recover and face legal proceedings. i strongly support the work of the commission and my colleagues, because to win the confidence of all citizens in european justice, we need a complete and efficient european legal framework. and we took a first big step on 13 december with the adoption of the european protection order directive.
in writing. − citizens' trust in the judiciary is one of the european union's highest priorities. i welcome the commission's general objective of establishing minimum standards on the rights, assistance and protection of victims of crime, provided that greater attention is paid to assistance services for victims who are particularly at risk of further harm and intimidation during criminal proceedings. according to recent estimates, the annual cost of crime to victims in the union, to employers, the state and civil society, is eur 233 billion. these costs are attributable not only to the crime itself but also to the lack of adequate victim support services. i therefore welcome all efforts to strengthen the rights of victims and to provide them with appropriate support services, because they are cost-effective measures which will make a positive contribution to facilitating the reporting of crimes and to maintaining the sustainability of national justice and health systems. i also believe it is essential that the directive provides a unified definition of the concept of 'victim' so that this status is recognised not only for the person who has suffered the crime but also for his close relatives.
in writing. - i support the report, which shows a careful sensitivity to identify possible gaps and shortcomings in the valid implementation of the directive issued by the commission. in order to effectively exercise their rights, victims of crime may need more specific measures and tools of a practical and operational nature, especially in certain areas and in vulnerable segments of society. i would remind you of the observations made in the europol 2011 report on human trafficking, which clearly indicates that economic weakness and cultural conditioning are the decisive factors facilitating the activities of criminal organisations against victims, often children or women from countries marked by poverty and serious political instability, exploited in the most diverse areas, from the textile industry to begging and prostitution. without forgetting that persistent situations of cultural and social weakness in certain areas of our countries still favour phenomena of domestic violence and crimes against the person, which are very rarely reported and prosecuted. additional instruments of protection, including physical and personal protection, immediate assistance, representation in court (criminal and civil) and before the police authorities are therefore indispensable for the application of the provisions of the directive and for the exercise of the rights of victims.
in writing. − i voted in favour of ms parvanova’s report on the minimum standards on the rights, support, and protection of victims of crime because it draws necessary attention to an issue that needs to be addressed by the eu. first and foremost, the provisions will establish uniformity throughout the eu for victims’ rights and protection, ensuring all victims of crime will be treated in the same way regardless of the member state in which they are located. notably, the report encourages the individual assessment of a victim’s needs, particularly those with specific needs, when determining the methodology of protection. it recognises the unique nature of gender-based discrimination and urges particular protection for those who are repeat victims of crime.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. to ensure that the european union complies with the stockholm programme, it is urgent to establish a common and transparent judicial system applicable in all eu member states. i am sure that the directive under consideration will not only help to defend the rights of victims but also help european citizens to gain confidence in the national judicial system and that of neighbouring member states by harmonizing these minimum standards.
in writing. - i voted with conviction in favour of the parvanova-jiménez-becerril barrio resolution, by which the european parliament wanted to sign its commitment to the protection of victims of crime. the initiative is part of and complements the 2009 stockholm programme, which was enriched in 2011 with new and important regulatory instruments: the commission has also adopted a number of directives on the protection of minors, including the directive on the european protection order, the directive on combating the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography, and the directive on the prevention and suppression of trafficking in human beings. the directive follows the 2001 framework decision by introducing specific obligations for victims. the definition should be extended to include the relatives of direct victims. finally, i congratulate the rapporteurs on their success in drawing up a transversal text covering all categories of victims, with particular attention to 'particularly vulnerable victims'.
in writing. - i wanted to express my full support for this report which aims to offer greater protection and guarantees for victims of crime. a person who has been robbed, assaulted, harassed, or who has been the victim of more serious crimes such as rape or incidents related to organised crime and terrorism, must be able to feel adequately protected and respected, so as not to risk being a victim twice, of the same violence suffered and of the problems that may arise thereafter. in this connection, it should be emphasized that special attention and specific measures are taken for women, minors and people with disabilities, for whom a criminal episode can leave very serious repercussions that are difficult to overcome over time. the commission is also proposing to introduce a european standard for the protection of victims of crime in the member states.
in writing. - istat reports that women aged 16 to 70 who say they have been victims of physical or sexual violence at least once in their lives number 6 million 743 thousand, or 31.9%; the rate of rape alone is 4.8% (over one million women). 14.3% of women also say they have been subjected to violence by their partner: 12% of physical violence and 6.1% of sexual violence. of the remaining 24.7%, 9.8% were physical violence and 20.4% sexual violence. 2.4% of women say they have been raped by their partner and 2.9% by strangers. 93% of women who say they have been abused by their spouse said they did not report the abuse to the public authorities; the percentage rises to 96% if the perpetrator is not the partner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why are these abuses not reported? because the victims don't feel protected. victim protection programmes are therefore a step in the right direction in assisting women as well as the elderly and children.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing minimum standards on the rights, assistance and protection of victims of crime. the new directive aims to establish minimum standards on the rights, assistance, recognition and maximum protection of victims of crime, irrespective of their legal status, in the eu, both in terms of content and implementation. as trust in justice is a priority for all citizens, particularly for victims who feel that their rights are being ignored or out of reach, i consider this proposal for a directive to be an appropriate means of overcoming the many gaps and obstacles currently present in the internal market and the european area of freedom, security and justice.
in writing. − since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in 2009 and the guidelines for the creation of a european area of freedom, security and justice, as set out in the stockholm programme, the protection of victims of crime in the eu has been a priority for the union. now, on the basis of council framework decision 2001/220/jha on the position of the victim in criminal proceedings, it is necessary to adopt a comprehensive european legal framework offering recognition and maximum protection to all victims of crime, regardless of their legal status, on the territory of the eu, and to provide a unified definition of the concept of 'victim', so that this status is recognised not only for the person who has suffered the crime, but also for his or her close relatives. in order to strengthen the rights of victims and to ensure greater protection of their privacy, we vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague, mrs jiménez-becerril barrio, on her work. by adopting this report, having regard to the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council (com (2011) 275) and to the opinion of the european economic and social committee of 7 december 2011, parliament ensures that any victim of crime will enjoy the same rights and an assessment of their specific needs throughout the eu. but the positive aspect of this report is that from now on, victims of crimes such as robbery, theft, assault, rape, harassment, hate crime, terrorist attacks, or human trafficking will no longer face problems caused by cultural, linguistic or legislative differences, and above all will be supported and supported, from the moment they are subjected to the crime, by free and confidential assistance services (e.g. psychological support), regardless of where the crime took place.
in writing. - i support the report by mr moreira which aims to bring council regulation (ec) no 774/94 into line with the regime of delegated acts as provided for in articles 290 and 291 tfeu. there are therefore no changes to the content or substance of the regulation but it is merely a technical update.
in writing. - regulation (ec) no 774/94 empowered the commission to adopt the necessary implementing measures and to amend the regulation in the event of adjustments to the volumes and other conditions of the tariff quota arrangements for certain meat and cereals, in particular by decisions relating to the conclusion of agreements with third countries. it is now necessary to align those powers with the system of delegated and implementing acts subsequent to lisbon by conferring the relevant implementing powers on the commission, by aligning that regulation with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in addition, stressing the importance of the fact that the right of control over the implementing acts necessary for the management of the quota system provided for in the regulation under consideration remains with the committee on international trade, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the commission's proposal, for which i voted in favour, aims to adapt the regulation to the new rules of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as regards the powers of the european parliament with regard to the management of community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and wheat. the european parliament will therefore be involved in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts, the limitation of the delegation of power to tacitly extendable five-year periods, the extension of the time limit for possible objections to a draft delegated act from two to four months and the modification of the application of the written procedure.
in writing. - in view of council regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and (ec) no 1506/98 concerning imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey, and taking into account that much of the common commercial policy legislation is being aligned to articles 290 and 291 tfeu through two 'omnibus' instruments on trade, it is now necessary to align those regulations to the system of implementing and delegated acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon (articles 290 and 291 tfeu). i would like to see the right of scrutiny for these implementing acts retained by the committee on international trade rather than by the committee on agriculture, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i support the report by mr moreira on the 'amendment to the agreement on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment, certificates and marks of conformity between the ec and australia', an agreement first signed in 1999 and which is being updated in an improving manner by removing certain trade restrictions which have proved unnecessary and reducing the administrative burden of administering the agreement. this agreement provides that australia undertakes to carry out controls on products intended for the eu in accordance with the legislation in force in the union and that the eu undertakes to do the same in return; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the amendments to the main text of the rra will allow for greater flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes. unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties shall be eliminated. in addition, the administrative burden of administering the agreement will be reduced.
in writing. − considering that the arrs, agreements on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment of regulated products, give each party the authority to inspect and certify products in accordance with the regulatory requirements of the other party, on its territory and prior to export, and considering that the arr with australia entered into force on 1 january 1999, there is now a need to improve and simplify the functioning of this agreement. in order to allow greater flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes, to eliminate unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, and to reduce the administrative burden of administering the agreement, as well as to facilitate and clarify the operation of the agreement, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i support the moreira report on mutual recognition of conformity assessment between the eu and new zealand: its objective is to give both parties the authority to control products intended for export under each other's rules; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
in writing. − in parallel to the proposed amendment to the mutual recognition agreement with australia, an amendment to the mra with new zealand, which entered into force on 1 january 1999, was proposed. considering that the arrs are agreements on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment of regulated products, which give each party the authority to inspect and certify products in accordance with the regulatory requirements of the other party, on its territory and prior to export, and wishing for greater flexibility in the structure of sectoral annexes, eliminating unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, and reducing the administrative burden related to the management of the agreement, i vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr gallagher's report because i agree with the imposition of stricter intervention measures on those third countries which repeatedly violate agreements on the implementation of unsustainable fishing, which consequently cause considerable damage to transnational fish stocks, i.e. those of common interest. i therefore support the restrictions suggested in this report on the quantity of imports allowed, on the use of european ports and on the prohibition of joint fishing between vessels of countries engaged in unsustainable fishing and those of member states.
in writing. − according to the 2010 fao report, the average per capita consumption of fishery products has doubled since the 1960s: fish is the leading raw material in the food industry by trade volume, with an estimated value of $102 billion in 2008. it should not be surprising, then, that a part of the fish stocks is under constant threat of depletion and that the question of environmental and food balances calls for the utmost responsibility and concrete action to combat illegal fishing, the turnover of which, according to some environmental organizations, exceeds 25% of the value of the global market. as the primary stakeholder in this market, the union has a duty (for reasons of self-preservation and fairness) to leverage markets to incentivise less sensitive countries to comply with the stock management obligations established by the conventions. i therefore support the report.
in writing. − the management of highly migratory fish stocks requires constant cooperation and direct consultation between the countries whose fleets exploit these stocks, avoiding the risk of unilateral measures potentially harmful to the long-term sustainability of the resources. on the other hand, it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that this obligation to cooperate is respected and that member states do not take unilateral actions contrary to the general interest in the conservation of the marine ecosystem. however, in addition to effective measures, the eu needs to be equipped with appropriate control instruments to fulfil this task. as in other sectors, unbridled competition between member states can have negative consequences. this is why it has chosen to support the measures provided for in the directive, in particular those aimed at imposing quantitative restrictions on imports into the union of fish caught from the stock of common interest under the control of a third country. it also welcomed the introduction of instruments to ensure that the measures adopted are effective, proportionate and compatible with international standards, as well as respecting environmental, commercial, economic and social standards.
in writing. − the repeated violations of the un convention on the law of the sea and the un fish stocks agreement make it urgent to create an appropriate legal instrument to enable the eu to respond to the lack of cooperation shown by the states concerned. i fully agree with the rapporteur on this point, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − in view of the repeated violations of the un convention on the law of the sea and the un fish stocks agreement, as well as the unilateral actions taken in defiance of the cooperation requirements imposed by the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos) on coastal states for the responsible management of transboundary and highly migratory fish stocks, it is necessary to create an appropriate legal instrument to enable the eu to respond to the lack of cooperation demonstrated by the states concerned. underlining the eu's responsibility to ensure sustainable fishing and the respect of the obligations arising from the common management of transboundary and migratory fish stocks and therefore the importance of providing the eu with the means to take effective action against states which are not prepared to assume such responsibility, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the report by mr gallagher was voted on today at the plenary session in strasbourg. the regulation adopted allows the use of trade sanctions against third countries which allow unsustainable fishing and fishery products from stocks of common interest. these measures should discourage the overexploitation of certain fish species in the north atlantic. although the legislation can be applied against third countries, the situation in the north atlantic is also in our interest. iceland unilaterally increased its mackerel catch from 363 tonnes in 2005 to 147 000 tonnes in 2012. the faroe islands' share of the mackerel increased from 27 830 tonnes in 2009 to 149 000 tonnes in 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the european commission needs to have more powers to ban imports of fish into the eu from over-exploited fish stocks. the new rules will help to discourage the overfishing of fish such as mackerel, which is particularly harmful to iceland and the faroe islands. the commission will now have to carry out a comprehensive reform of the fisheries policy to make it more environmentally sustainable.
in writing. - finally, this report is a response to those third countries bordering the mediterranean and beyond, which continue to violate fisheries agreements and the un convention on the law of the sea. it is unthinkable to continue to harass european fishermen with rules and restrictions which, on the one hand, reduce their income and, on the other, oblige member states to finance damaged fleets when other countries in our neighbourhood, not respecting the rules, fish unsustainably. so banning imports of fish from third countries which are behaving incorrectly protects our fishermen and discourages those who are behaving incorrectly.
in writing. the report is one of the cornerstones of the reform of the cfp, increasing its competitiveness, particularly of producers, and yet it also has aspects of primary importance for the health and consumer confidence of the sector. in this respect, the interests of consumers and the satisfaction of their needs for clarity and transparency must be the guiding light of our common policies, because they can be a means of stimulating purchases, all the more so at a time of falling sales, when, as all the indicators show, the trend is to favour a conscious and informed purchase, which is synonymous with quality purchasing. we are therefore strongly convinced that the date of actual catching of the fish, rather than the date of landing of the vessel, should be included on the packaging of the product. on the other hand, the landing date, which is supported by moderate and conservative forces, is not only misleading information for the consumer but also an undue interference in favour of large fleets - capable of remaining at sea for several days - compared to small boats that remain at sea for only a few hours. once again, we would have expected more rational behaviour from the moderate forces, which seemed to be bending to the interests of the big groups.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr stevenson's report because i am firmly convinced of the competitive advantage of greater efficiency on the markets of joint organisations and producers in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. the objectives of the common fisheries policy are to improve environmental protection through effective regulation. however, as the report points out, the operators in the sector and the consequences for their business must also be taken into account, so that new regulations do not stifle their entrepreneurship and their ability to compete in the market. i also support the initiative to increase consultation between transnational producer organisations with common commercial characteristics and needs. it is in this direction, but also taking into account the peculiarities of the specific fishing areas, that work must also be done in the drafting of the cfp.
in writing. − fisheries play a very important role in the economies of the union's coastal regions, including the outermost regions. it is the source of income for fishermen in these regions, and it is therefore necessary to promote market stability and a better match between supply and demand. my vote is in favour.
in writing. since 1970, the common organisation of the markets (cmo) has been the first component of the common fisheries policy (cfp). in the context of a genuine reform of the cfp, a more significant role for producer organisations in the day-to-day management of fisheries activities within a more regionalised system is desirable; the use of modern technology to improve market knowledge needs to be promoted in the framework of the future european maritime and fisheries fund; it is important to ensure that consumers have the right to better and comprehensible information on the fishery products they purchase, through appropriate labelling. with these objectives in mind and stressing the importance of rewarding sustainable fishing practices with an eu ecolabel, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr mcavan's proposal for a directive because i agree with the need to increase pharmacovigilance controls in an attempt to tackle the practices of pharmaceutical companies which continue to market products which are declared harmful to the health of european consumers and therefore banned from the market.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate my colleague on the courage and rigour with which he has dealt with some of the problems which, if left unresolved for a long time, could weaken not only the cfsp but also the union's political position and credibility in general. perhaps with the financial crisis the time has come to untie these knots, as i believe the rapporteur has done by moving from a few fixed points of method to a comprehensive, coherent and uniform approach to eu foreign policy, based on a realistic assessment of scenarios, options, resources and results. in defining the eu's foreign policy and its evaluation parameters, parliament now plays a central role as the repository of political legitimacy deriving from the investment of european citizens, to whom it responds. the recent developments in the crisis have accelerated the maturation of the awareness of a common destiny in the maintenance of the currency, the economy and the institutions themselves. foreign policy can only be a fundamental part of this sense of being europe. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. we need a strategic vision. we must replace fear with courage. courage impels us to action which in time generates hope, and the real hope for the whole world is the presence of a europe which has the strength to bet, in international relations, on the convictions which have guaranteed it the exceptional status of these 60 years.
in writing. − the stated ambitions of the lisbon treaty, which provides that 'the union's competence in matters of common foreign and security policy shall cover all areas of the union's foreign policy and all matters relating to the union's security, including the progressive framing of a common defence policy which may lead to a common defence' (article 24 (1) teu), provide the starting point for building a fundamental framework for the elaboration of a comprehensive, coherent and uniform eu approach to foreign policy. to this end, a new contribution from parliament is needed, which is more pragmatic than the 2010 council report on the cfsp, and not up to the ambitions of the lisbon treaty. in the hope of providing a new european security strategy and a contribution to the formulation of the eu's foreign policy, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − we are voting to say that, although the lisbon treaty is giving new impetus to the eu's foreign policy, providing the institutional and operational tools, its effectiveness and sustainability are undermined by the ongoing financial crisis. to make its weight felt internationally, the eu must not only ensure that its policies, actors and institutions are consistent, but also develop a truly strategic concept for foreign policy and provide the necessary staff, financial and diplomatic resources. today we sent a clear signal to the high representative catherine ashton. the european union's foreign policy, in times of increasing challenges and limited resources, must be strategic and forward-looking. the new strategic framework for the european union's external action must also be democratically legitimate. our role as parliamentarians is essential if policy is to be understood and supported by european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a new overall and strategic concept of european foreign policy is needed if the eu's external action is to be coherent and effective in achieving its objectives. although the lisbon treaty is already giving new impetus to the eu's foreign policy, its effectiveness will be severely tested if sufficient minimum resources are not available. to be effective in the international arena, the eu must not only ensure that its policies, actors and institutions are consistent, but also develop a new strategic foreign policy model to achieve this fully.
in writing. the annual report marks the beginning of a genuine 'new strategic approach' by parliament to the european union's foreign policy, building on the ambitions set out in the lisbon treaty. the aim is to develop a comprehensive eu approach, which is fundamental to the implementation of a common foreign policy. the long-term strategic approach of the 2010 council report is of key importance, despite the fact that it is a step back from some of the ambitions expressed in the lisbon treaty. i therefore voted in favour of this report, given its valuable contribution to the formulation of eu foreign policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr haglund's report because i agree with the proposal to introduce a system of individual transferable fishing concessions, subject to protection measures. i am also in favour of the creation of an ad hoc system for artisanal and coastal fishing, to protect it from competition from industrial fishing activities, and of a second system for environmentally friendly fishing vessels. these measures are designed to reduce the overcapacity of fisheries currently operating in european waters.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. it is right to stress the need for a balance between the ecological and the economic and social situation in each fishing activity, recognising that without abundant fish stocks the fishing industry will not be viable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because fish stocks in danger of extinction can no longer wait for bureaucratic delays on the part of the states. long-term management plans must be well defined and based on an ecosystem approach to find the solutions needed for the management of mixed fisheries. but as long as some member states continue to delay in communicating these plans to the european commission, the difficulty of precisely identifying areas of intervention will be to the detriment of the objectives of protecting certain endangered species, such as bluefin tuna in our mediterranean. this neglect also hinders the granting of the necessary funding for well-defined areas of relevant scientific research and the european parliament has on several occasions spoken out to urge member states which have failed to comply with their obligations. the real problem is not to apply the sanctions provided for, but to speed up the timely collection of data to protect the marine ecosystem.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 requires the commission to report, by the end of 2012, to both the european parliament and the council on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and on the achievements of the member states in the adjustment of fishing capacity. the result is definitely negative: the efforts of member states to improve the conservation and restoration of fish stocks have been insufficient. this requires a reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) which strikes the right balance between ecological and economic aspects and provides a general definition of overcapacity at eu level and a specific definition at regional level, taking into account the different weighting factors in the regions. with these objectives in mind, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the results of member states' efforts to conserve and exploit fish stocks for their own sake are rather poor; the failure to meet their obligations, especially in relation to communication, the setting of appropriate reduction targets, and the collection and transmission of data is not encouraging. i therefore support parliament's position, stressing that it is unacceptable that member states do not provide the data necessary for sound scientific advice. the system of restrictions on fishing activities in waters within 12 nautical miles is a positive development, since it is effective in achieving the objectives of the cfp.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr salavrakos' own-initiative report because i am in favour of the three objectives of this reform. first, i believe that measures to conserve marine resources should be strengthened, for example by creating a voluntary 'ecological quality' label, increasing the amount of co-financing allowed and continuously collecting data to monitor the state of biodiversity in the various european basins. i also believe that, because of the volatility of oil prices, the fisheries sector requires strict control and certification of all products on the eu market, especially those imported from third countries. finally, i am in favour of the regionalisation of the fisheries sector to ensure capillary control and efficient management of each european sea basin.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. i agree that the fisheries sector can only remain sustainable if a balance is struck between socioeconomic and environmental aspects and if there is a sufficient number of properly trained and qualified workers. to achieve this, employment in the fisheries sector must be attractive.
in writing. - the debate on fisheries was the focus of this plenary session, starting with this report on the reform of the common policy. firstly, we must stress the failure of the action taken so far at european level, since the sector does not seem to have given the answers we had in mind, namely, first of all, an increase in employment and less dependence on the outside world. unfortunately, neither of these two hopes has come true and today we are faced with a situation of objective difficulty for the system: the proposed solutions include new action to promote the conservation and enhancement of marine biological resources, a more rational management of the socioeconomic and employment sustainability of the sector, and a call for strict rules against non-eu states that do not respect certain maritime environmental protection characteristics. in addition to these measures, regionalisation is proposed as a key principle of fisheries reform: this should mean having more freedom in relation to different needs, while fully respecting the principle of subsidiarity. for all these reasons i have therefore decided to support all the reports on fisheries, a sector which can and must still do a lot in terms of the environment, food, the economy and employment.
in writing. − given that one of the eu's objectives is to ensure the long-term environmental sustainability of the union's fisheries and aquaculture sector, which is one of the prerequisites for ensuring its economic and social sustainability as well, the common fisheries policy needs to be reformed in a radical and ambitious way. in order to conserve marine biological resources, the cfp should apply the precautionary approach to fisheries management and ensure that the sustainable exploitation of living marine biological resources restores and maintains populations of all stocks of harvested species above levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield. i would like to stress the importance of the fisheries and extensive aquaculture sectors for the creation of direct and indirect jobs in our maritime regions, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity during this plenary session to discuss this reform, which is the dominant theme of the current fisheries negotiations. the green paper on reform of the sector was presented in april 2009. the various council of ministers meetings on the subject discussed its basic aspects with a view to reaching an initial agreement on shared texts. one of the key points in the text is, in my view, paragraph 58, which calls for the emff (european maritime and fisheries fund) to provide financial support for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets in order to achieve the objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the average age of fishing fleets in the eu is 27 years. i voted for the amendment, but unfortunately it did not pass. i therefore felt obliged to vote against the whole text, since i consider it of fundamental importance to modernise the fishing fleets for reasons of safety, environmental protection or reduction of fuel consumption, as the text states.
in writing. − in sharing and supporting the identification of the main objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy, such as environmental sustainability, socioeconomic sustainability and regionalisation, i voted in favour of the own-initiative report discussed here. the commission recalls that a thorough reform of the eu's common fisheries policy (cfp) is needed, given that its objectives have not been fully achieved. it should also be stressed that sustainable fishing will bring enormous environmental, social and economic benefits, as a non-damaged environment will ensure a secure future for fishing communities and a profitable fishing industry without the need for public support. it is also essential that the cfp is in line with environmental and development policies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are discussing today the political situation in a country which has been a member of the european union since 2007 and which is complying with the obligations imposed by the acquis communautaire. among the legal duties and political objectives which unite and bind the members of the union is the rule of law as an indispensable condition for the democratic organization of society. this makes it important to discuss the current situation in romania, which is taking on worrying contours caused by an unprecedented power struggle and institutional war. a conflict in which a majority attempts to occupy, bend and enslave all other bodies, including constitutional and judicial bodies and other institutions at will, by overriding and upsetting the balance of power and functions and institutions. it is strange that a section of this parliament, which is always attentive to the level of democracy and freedom in the countries that are part of the union, should be indifferent or even justify it on this occasion. i think that this parliament and the commission are doing a very good job of keeping a high level of attention on what is happening in romania.
mr president, for eight years romania was ruled by an authoritarian president who violated fundamental rights, who regularly attacked the parliament, the government, the judiciary, the trade unions and all the media that opposed him. băsescu’s regime was based on a parallel system of personal power. it was the same old story – using intelligence services, the police, and the office of the prosecutor to spy on citizens, to intimidate political opponents and protect friends. the mafia, corruption and clientele were closely associated with this parallel system that was finally challenged by a popular reaction. the commission did not lift a finger against all these abuses. romania got a new parliament that started an impeachment process which it carried out according to constitutional rules. at this point the commission intervened, endorsing all the allegations brought by băsescu. so, ms reding, you should apologise for the irresponsible language you used against a member state and a democratic government calling a process that was constitutional and legal a parliamentary coup.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder what the purpose of a banking union is. if this is about greater supervision, then i wonder what the recent establishment of a european banking supervisory authority has done, if not to decree the bankruptcy of these authorities which have been unable to provide any useful response. many banks have continued to act in a disorderly manner, not helping the real economy but instead focusing on risky and ethically questionable operations such as, for example, the continuing financing of spanish banks to the main and indebted football clubs of the iberian country. i think that instead of banking union it would be more useful to talk about banking separation, i.e. the division between deposit banks and investment banks, on the model of the american glass-steagall act. the banks that collect money from current accounts and small savers should be protected, but i do not see why they should be covered by common guarantees - that is, with the money of all citizens - those banks that seek their profit through speculative activity and high-risk investments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are not convinced by this banking union, because it seems to have no other objective than to put a fine tombstone on any prospect of the adoption at european level of the regulatory principles of the glass-steagall act. in this connection, how can we not agree with the concern expressed by the president of the german savings banks, mr fahrenschon, that a banking union with central supervision in the hands of the ecb and a common deposit guarantee fund is equivalent to life insurance for the systemic banks, that is to say those, not all, in whose belly there is a sea of derivatives waste? we all know it, but no one dares to say it! with this solution, healthy banks, for example the savings banks - not only german but also those of padania - and the popular banks, close to the territory, the peoples and the regions - we remember the message that yesterday gave two million catalans who want freedom - pay to allow the sick to continue to speculate. one last question: the president of the ecb, mario draghi, says every day that the euro is irreversible. i would like to know if any of you have found an article in the treaties which allows you to decide which currency the member states should have. i didn't find him.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the proposals you have outlined are very important, both for their substance and for what the banking union will have to do, but also for the political message they contain. it is a way of sharing sovereignty which goes in the direction of building a european institutional set-up different and more advanced than the present one. i think, however, that some non-marginal aspects must be carefully considered. the first is the time of completion. you have said, quite rightly, that this is not the time to distract us by discussing the people who will have to take on these functions. but that is a subject which must be tackled, and quickly, so as not to undermine the potential of the instrument we are discussing. the second aspect concerns the need to properly dissolve the knot between the supervisory and the autonomous functions of the central bank. the autonomy must be defended, and the monitoring must be linked to the functions of parliament. what is happening in national parliaments today is clear; what will happen here in the future is still undefined.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we support the compromise proposal in the committee on international trade. we believe that a very reasonable balance has been struck. on the one hand, we have a certain date, a deadline. i would ask everyone to reflect on the absurdity of rejecting the committee's proposal because we have obligations in the wto which we have to respect. on the other hand, we are giving a couple of years more, meeting at least partly the demands of the acp countries. i think this is a debate that needs to be de-dramatized. in the end, as the commissioner has already said in his speech, we are talking about a very limited volume of trade, although the decision we are going to take tomorrow is very important for some of the capitals of the acp countries. there is a kind of asymmetrical importance between our perception of what is at stake and that of some acp countries. i do not think that by setting a deadline so close, as some acp countries may feel, it is almost inevitable, that the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements can be brought to a speedier conclusion. we want these agreements. but these are partnership agreements which must be concluded in the best possible way, by persuasion, through an effort of persuasion. these two additional years, if all of them are really necessary, can be an opportunity to increase our efforts in the negotiations, and to extend the network of partners, not just the governments. there is a certain mistrust in the societies of these countries; we also need to engage with national parliamentarians who often do not ratify, but have a political voice and influence in the debate in their countries and complain that they are not getting enough information. as i suggested to mr horsens at our acp parliamentary assembly, we may need to organise public seminars with the media and ngos to explain our position. there's a kenyan proverb that says, "if you want to go far, go together".
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote by parliament marks an important development in the european union's agri-food quality policy. as a member of the european commission responsible for agriculture and rural development, i have always attached great importance to this subject, because it seems to me that the future of the european agri-food sector, especially on the international market, lies in its quality and diversity. the commission welcomes the compromise reached at the trilogue on 20 june. i would like to stress that this trilogue took place in a truly constructive atmosphere and i am pleased that we were able to achieve a balanced and satisfactory result. the final result of the work is a compromise in the best sense of the word: everyone has given and given up on one or the other point, including important points, but everyone has also achieved real improvements. the commission's proposals were not ambitious enough, according to ms garcía pérez. the commission also expected parliament to be more ambitious than it had proposed on other points. so, in the end, i think we were able to come to a compromise where we both agree. i would like to thank mrs garcía pérez in particular for her constructive approach and willingness to understand the reason for the commission's proposal on points which i felt were essential to be able to speak about improving agri-food quality policy. i also thank the fictitious rapporteur and the committee on agriculture and rural development, which has been very involved in this project, and then, in the council, the danish presidency and previous presidencies for their efforts. we now have a well-balanced and satisfactory text on the table. we can say that the future regulation on quality systems will strengthen and simplify european quality policy. from now on we will have a single instrument for geographical indications, designations of origin, traditional specialities and optional quality terms. it will bring significant improvements to the protection regime for these high-quality instruments and create more visibility for consumers. this framework, which sets out a coherent and strengthened quality policy, will certainly best serve the diversity of producers, products and consumers in the european union. i can therefore conclude by confirming that the commission supports this political agreement and i hope that parliament will adopt it tomorrow. in reply to mrs garcía pérez's question about the specific mention of mountain areas, we will finalise the proposal as soon as the impact study has been carried out. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about comitology. during the trilogue on that draft regulation, the commission agreed not to adopt the draft implementing act if the committee responsible does not deliver an opinion, in which case the third subparagraph of article 5 (4) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 will apply. this is contrary to the general rule followed by the commission, but in this particular case, the agreement could not have been obtained if it had objected on this point. therefore, in a spirit of compromise, the commission does not wish to oppose a qualified majority in favour of the text of the presidency and wishes to make the following statement: the commission emphasises that it is contrary to the spirit of regulation no 182/2011 to invoke article 5 (4), second subparagraph, point (b) in a systematic way. recourse to this provision should meet a specific need to derogate from the rule of principle that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act where no opinion is delivered. since it is an exception to the general rule laid down in article 5 (4), recourse to the second subparagraph, point (b), cannot be regarded simply as a discretionary power of the legislator, but must be interpreted restrictively and must therefore be justified. in conclusion, i note that the two institutions have considered it appropriate to continue discussions on marketing standards, in particular, but also on other points which were originally envisaged in this draft regulation in the context of the reform of the common agricultural policy which is under way, and the commission will give its full support to ensure that this can be carried out successfully.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am convinced that this legislation is an important step forward for designations of origin in europe. after all, we now have about a thousand such names in europe, and they are worth some 15 billion euros a year, or 4.5% of our food market in europe. the importance of these products is increasing. these figures show how important these designations of origin have become. the rapporteur, to whom i am very grateful for the cooperation she has given over the past few months, has already enumerated the advantages of the new regulation. we will have less bureaucracy, we will have more public protection for designations of origin and we will have new possibilities for designation, such as the designation just mentioned by the commissioner 'products from the mountain'. this is a great advance. i am very sorry that we have not succeeded in giving greater importance to the protection consortia. there is no doubt that these products are perceived by consumers as brands. anyone who says that consumers do not perceive names such as pata negra or parmigiano reggiano as brands is missing the point. the protection consortiums are missing a very important element of market management. you can't decide the amount of the offer. unfortunately, there was no agreement on this matter with the council, which is today conspicuous by its absence. i hope that we will be able to reach such an agreement in the debate on the agricultural reform. i do not think it is very helpful either if there is now a green amendment which we are voting on tomorrow and which goes in that direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but we know that this will prevent the regulation from being adopted at first reading, and we will therefore have to reject it. so this isn't necessarily helpful, it doesn't get us anywhere. i hope the greens will support us in this matter as we work towards agricultural reform.
the regulation on the quality of agri-food products, which we are voting on tomorrow, is the second most important piece of legislation which involves the european parliament in its entirety through the codecision procedure for agricultural legislation. as with the milk regulation, parliament has succeeded in introducing significant and improving amendments to the european commission's proposal. i would like to mention, for example, the stricter rules to protect certified products against counterfeiting and imitation - the so-called ex officio rule - but also the new system of optional indications, starting with the indication 'mountain product', area marks, the introduction of a greater degree of simplification in the authorization procedures for pdo, pgi and gst products. i also recall the amendment to the list in the annex, which finally opens up the possibility of protecting chocolate as a geographical indication. i take this opportunity to say hello to modica's chocolate friends in the room. these are just some of the many changes parliament has been able to introduce - thanks to the excellent work of the rapporteur, mrs iratxe garcía pérez, whom i thank, of the shadow rapporteurs and of the whole committee on agriculture - to strengthen the perspective of quality as a competitive lever for the sector. the only regret, as the rapporteur herself has mentioned, is that parliament has not succeeded in convincing the council of the need to extend the production planning which we had usefully introduced in the milk package to all the other protected designations of origin, particularly in the ham sector. but, as the shadow rapporteur mr dorfmann has also mentioned, we shall certainly be doing so in the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy, and in particular on the single cmo document.
i would like to thank mr garcía pérez for the long and patient work he has done over the last year to reach an agreement as close as possible to parliament's position. this is a journey that began in 2009 with the quality products own-initiative report, which already highlighted important issues that we have now achieved and others that we still need to work on. what we have achieved is a success for all the producers, associations and consortia who have supported us over the years, and it is a recognition of their commitment to quality. the importance of their work was affirmed in this same report by the possibility afforded to member states of encouraging their formation and operation. among the positive results achieved - as my colleagues have already stressed - thanks to the teamwork carried out by the parliament's delegation during meetings with the other institutions, i would like to mention the ex officio protection under which the member states must protect trademarked products, even if they are used as ingredients in processed products, without waiting for complaints from producers. contrary to what was stated in mr nicholson's report on contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector, the management of volumes for brands in the other sectors has been excluded from this report. it was not possible to reach agreement on a key issue for our producers - the volume planning - a key instrument which was first and foremost desired by the operators in the production chains to allow a balance between supply and demand. we will continue to work with our colleagues to achieve this result. finally, i would like to thank the italian associations representing the consortia, which have cooperated and will continue to do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thanks to the work of all the members of this parliament, we are now at the final vote on the quality systems applicable to agricultural products. i think the result achieved in the negotiations with the council is excellent. the ex officio rule, the new labelling possibilities and the amendments to the annex, which will also allow new products such as chocolate to be granted community trade marks, are just a few examples. i have only one regret, commissioner: the council's unavailability to plan the supply of the protection groups has left us with a bitter taste in our mouths. but, commissioner, you can be sure that this parliament will bring the subject up again in the context of the forthcoming reform of the cap, also to avoid any disparities in treatment with respect to certain sectors of production which have already been given this recognition. we shall vote against the amendment tomorrow, and i shall vote against it too, although it is acceptable, it is not yet in time to be positively assessed.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these two funds certainly have important and shared objectives, namely to help small businesses and social entrepreneurship. i am very familiar with the latter, having often dealt with disabled people's associations, and my role as vice-president of the disability intergroup in this parliament has led me to hear many proposals and needs in this area. thousands of businesses are active in this sector, contributing to about 10% of european gdp and employing over 11 million people. we are all aware that these are important figures which, in addition to having a valuable social impact, also have significant repercussions on the entire european economy. social enterprises are more likely than others to face a continuing difficulty in accessing credit, perhaps because it is considered - unfairly - that they do not provide adequate guarantees. they are often highly efficient and cost-competitive. however, it is essential to be extremely vigilant and to check carefully that the use of these instruments is limited to real needs. in this area too, there can be speculation and interests which are different from the real objectives for which they were developed. in this connection, the criteria for allocating these funds should be clarified, since i would not like them to become a new mechanism of potential fraud to the detriment of europe, of the social enterprises themselves and of all citizens, including the disabled, who have great possibilities and have high hopes in this area. in italy, for example, european social fund funds have been used in the past for purposes totally different from those originally proposed. it is a shame that there are individuals who speculate in this area and who should instead be helping people who are in greater difficulty. in conclusion, i therefore reiterate our support for these initiatives, but with the necessary and due attention to their proper implementation.
the negotiation of the trade agreement with colombia, peru and central america and the related stabilization mechanisms and safeguard clauses has been a very busy subject for many of us and the inta committee. we are in favour of the proposed regulations because they strike a balance between different requirements, all of which are based on the principle of free trade, the consideration of the community interest and international trade as a means of growth and development based on environmental sustainability and respect for human rights. in particular, these regulations are designed to protect european companies and, consequently, the workers employed in them, our farmers, especially those in the most remote areas of the european union. although the safeguards and stabilization mechanisms are limited in time, we believe that the period envisaged is sufficient to adapt our production system to the liberalizations envisaged therein and, at the same time, to encourage a significant increase in exports from the countries concerned. that is why we voted in favour.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me reiterate our appreciation for the rapporteurs and for everybody who has been working on these files. i will try to give an answer to some specific questions that have been put to me, although not all of them refer to the safeguard mechanism. i was asked where we stand regarding the human, labour and environmental roadmap that the european parliament requested from colombia and peru in its june 2012 resolution. i am fully aware of the importance that you, the european parliament, attach to this roadmap. the latest information i have is that colombia has already presented some preliminary information to the rapporteur for the trade agreement, mário david, and the rapporteur for the present regulatory safeguards, bernd lange, which shows that the country is taking this exercise very seriously. they should be able to present a full roadmap proposal by early october. i also understand that the colombian deputy foreign minister is to meet mr lange to present his country’s plans. we have less information on where peru stands, but the commission is in regular contact with them to underline the fundamental importance of this exercise. i understand that parliament is also in contact with the peruvian authorities via your rapporteur. secondly, on the banana stabilisation mechanism, which would not provide enough protection for the outermost regions, let me make a few remarks. i know that the outermost regions are especially vulnerable to a sudden increase in imports. that is the reason why we have negotiated specific conditions in order to safeguard their interests. these conditions reflect their particular situation and are based on a model we have previously used. this seems to have given them full reassurance in the past and i trust this will be the case here as well. the special safeguard for the outermost regions will still apply after the transition period has expired, which means after the banana mechanism has been discontinued. there were also some remarks on how to put it into practice. there i believe it is good practice that the commission has a margin of appreciation. you could have substitution for example, as was mentioned in the debate, but we take these things very seriously. it is not only on bananas that we could get these kinds of safeguard requests from member states. for example france has recently made a request to monitor car exports from korea into the european market. that is a first step in the safeguard that we would obtain by monitoring. if we get such a question we duly research it and only take a decision after having considered all elements of the file. so we are very serious about this, not only where the major economic interests of the european union are concerned. for example this concerns the economic interests of the outer regions. we will be very scrupulous in doing this. turning briefly to the access to the globalisation adjustment fund, i need to be frank with you on the issue of compensation. it is unprecedented for the outcome of the international trade negotiations to be compensated as far as the lost market shares for individual products and farmers are concerned, but i would like to recall that the commission has made a proposal regarding the european globalisation adjustment fund, which the co-legislators are called to decide upon. furthermore, the commission has already examined the consequences of tariff liberalisation comparable to the tariff cuts in the current banana agreement in the context of the reform of the banana common market organisation in 2006. to reflect that, the budgetary allocation for the banana producers in the eu was substantially increased. it would be unsustainable and politically difficult to justify a further increase in the support for the banana producers. the banana producers in the outer regions are the most supported producers in the whole european union. i can only reiterate that the banana reform, with integration into posei, has already included compensation of up to eur 279 million per year, also for the expected future fta trade deals, including the ones for colombia, peru and central america. you will agree with me that this is quite a lot of money.
the agenda includes the report by gerald häfner, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the council on the transmission to the european parliament and the treatment by the european parliament of classified information held by the council on matters not falling within the common foreign and security policy (2012/2069(aci)) (a7-0245/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 september.
the agenda includes the report by lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on certain permitted uses of orphan works (com (2011) 0289 - c7-0138/2011 - 2011/0136 (cod)) (a7-0055/2012).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs geringer on her very patient and tenacious work, which has led to a result which we regard as positive, despite some difficulties. the directive we are going to adopt is important not only because it will increase the number of people who can enjoy the cultural benefits of works of art and invention - which is already very important - but also because it breaks with a position which has hitherto been negative for the dissemination of culture, namely a sacred conception of copyright, to the point where copyright is considered so sacred that it is defended even when the author is not there, does not exist, perhaps because the author is dead or is not interested. the closure of management companies is also an obstacle to the spread of culture, which is why we arrived late and with many difficulties. i am referring, for example, to the attitude taken towards access for the blind and visually impaired to cultural works and the attitude towards private copying. we have been faced with a kind of wall in these respects, which we have been able to break down today, or at least to open a breach. the measure we are going to adopt has great political significance and the step forward that is about to be taken must be voted for. there are certainly inadequacies - and i understand the misgivings of our friends in the green group - but they cannot be a reason for not grasping the opportunity and the innovative significance of the operation that is being carried out. fortunately, commissioner barnier has tabled the regulation which we are discussing in our committee on management companies, and so we are touching on a very important point in order that the whole complex of copyright issues and topics can finally be tackled in the right way. it is a positive proposal which we consider should be amended and improved, but which we should support and which is indeed something which convinces us even more to vote in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur and all her colleagues who, with their excellent work, have helped to bring about one of the key actions of the european digital agenda. the directive we are about to adopt will help to achieve two fundamental objectives for the development of european copyright. firstly, it will allow the dissemination and use of works which would otherwise be at risk of disappearing from our cultural heritage. this is an initiative which fulfils a fundamental principle of copyright, namely the protection and promotion of culture and intellectual creations. secondly, this directive will make it possible to modernise and improve the legal framework of the member states by adapting the existing legislation to technical developments and the need for greater flexibility. this will help to strengthen the economic benefits of copyright by ensuring fair remuneration for work done and identifying any rights holders within a very secure framework of rules. as regards the commercial use of orphan works, i share the approach adopted by this parliament, which provides for commercial use only to offset the costs of the public service provided by the various institutions responsible. this directive does not concern issues related to the commercial exploitation of orphan works, but rather to the legitimate and cross-border access to works with the ultimate aim of promoting the diversity and richness of europe's cultural heritage.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the excellent report by mrs geringer, which we have helped to enrich in the committee on culture. the reasons for this appreciation are primarily the recognition of copyright as the economic and principled foundation of the creative industries, since it stimulates innovation, creativity, investment and production. the dissemination of works, after their digitisation, is the primary means of safeguarding and promoting europe's cultural heritage. the european union has a very rich cultural heritage, but much of it lies unused in the archives and libraries of our member states, with no possibility of access by the public. it is therefore appropriate to make these works as accessible as possible to all. the real wealth of our union is its cultural heritage, which has no equal in the world, but which is often neglected and loses its value not only culturally but also economically. the compromise reached between copyright protection and the use of the public is the best way to reverse this trend and revive our cultural heritage without infringing any rights. it is true that perhaps not all the objectives have been achieved, but the glass is not half empty but certainly half full.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 september. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr sajjad karim, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the 18th report on the year 2010 'better lawmaking' application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality (2011/2276(ini)) (a7-0251/2012).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that better legislation is a constant objective of both the european parliament and the institutional bodies which, through the co-legislative power, help to give a sufficiently clear and orderly picture to the more than 500 million european citizens who expect clear, accessible and coherent texts. the issue of coherence, which is not merely political, is translated into legislation which meets this essential requirement. it is important to emphasise that under the lisbon treaty this prerogative is best exercised through strong cooperation with national parliaments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is applied correctly, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. institutional sites for informing citizens are useful, but stronger involvement by local authorities and regional levels of government is also needed. finally, evidence-based policy-making can be combined with impact assessments of legislative proposals to measure their effectiveness. this will help to create a sufficiently simplified framework to avoid small and mediumsized enterprises having to bear additional costs than those already incurred and will ensure that the distance between brussels and strasbourg, between the member states and the citizens, is reduced. a europe of the people, where the european institutions are really at the service of the people, is what the political will of the european parliament must concretely develop.
mr president, transparency and access to all relevant documents and information are the essential basis and indispensable prerequisite of democracy and above all of the european parliament's ability to carry out its work. the lisbon treaty extended parliament's powers as co-legislator with the council, particularly in the field of international agreements. the negotiations have thus led to a joint draft text for an interinstitutional agreement on access to classified information held by the council, which has seen parliament achieve important objectives.
in writing. i voted in favour of the text tabled by mr sartori. i believe that a renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with brazil could bring benefits to the union, especially in a period of crisis such as the one we are going through.
in writing. − the 2002 agreement identified cooperation in scientific research as an area of prime interest, especially with a view to strengthening cultural links between the eu and algeria, including through the creation of dynamic, internationally-sensitive cultural managerial classes. i have always been a strong supporter of cooperative initiatives aimed at promoting the spread of a common mediterranean destiny, helping and supporting our natural partners, the middle and professional classes, which are oriented towards collaboration and stability, the free exchange of ideas and the spread of prosperity. research and technological development are also a vehicle for potential growth for companies in those countries, even in sectors where innovation is unexpected. i think of some interesting experiments in agricultural land management through low-cost technologies and the reach of local businesses. i therefore support the report, convinced that the agreement will bring substantial benefits to both parties in the medium and long term.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the agreement on the transmission to and the handling by parliament of classified information held by the council on matters not falling within the common foreign and security policy is a means of enabling the european parliament to exercise its powers and functions to the full.
in writing. - the report is shareable, starting with the general layout. the lisbon treaty, moreover, had outlined a system of close integration of national and local parliaments on the basis of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which are now of even greater importance, if possible, given the tensions facing the european governance structure in the face of the crisis. in this connection, i particularly endorse the proposals and comments contained in paragraphs 7, 9, 11 and 13. as regards the reduction of formal obligations to the minimum necessary, especially for enterprises, i would point out that the principle is generally accepted, but its practical application has proved difficult. it is difficult today not to recognise over-regulation as the main obstacle to the development of dynamic economies. the commission's 'measurement' doctrine and even more so the general evidence-based approach set out in paragraphs 22 to 28 can probably help in this respect. in any event, the key to achieving the objectives of the institutional agreement lies in the shared experimental principle and a rigorous verification and review process.
in writing. − action is needed in the area of subsidiarity checks by national parliaments and impact assessments by parliament and the council. it is essential to extend the scrutiny of the subsidiarity principle to the regional and local levels in the member states. i agree with the rapporteur. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on better regulation because we are living in a state of emergency. it is an emergency of democratic legitimacy that risks exploding if the active participation of citizens in the decision-making process is lost. better lawmaking means that the law that this institution legislates must be clear, simple, easy to understand and accessible to all. that i be the spokesperson for those who elected us, and not compromised by outside actors. better lawmaking also means institutional respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the basic principles of the eu treaties, and the guarantee of national and popular sovereignty. in the face of opinions from national parliaments where the justification for subsidiarity is sometimes insufficient or absent, i am pleased that the national parliaments are closely involved in the european legislative process, particularly as regards the examination of legislative proposals in the light of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, because this is the sense of the legitimate appeal first raised against the commission and council by the national parliaments on 22 may with the 'yellow card' procedure on freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. let us continue in this way, with the hope that the commission will reduce its regulatory burden in practice in its 2013 work programme.
in writing. − the atlantic strategy contains a strategic vision for the atlantic region which will serve as a reference for the 2014-2020 action plan; it also proposes that this action plan should first set out the priorities and essential measures, identify pilot projects and clearly define the roles and responsibilities of all parties involved. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr cadec's text, which, by defining the political priorities to be pursued, suggests that the atlantic strategy in the framework of eu cohesion policy should take the form of a macro-regional strategy. the main objective should therefore be to promote synergies between the various instruments and levels of action concerning spatial planning policies.
in writing. - in june 2000, a framework cooperation agreement was signed in cotonou, the capital of benin, between the european union and the acp countries, i.e. those in africa, the caribbean and the pacific. the aim of this agreement was to promote the economic, social and cultural development of these areas, to be achieved in different fields and through different instruments. one of the measures approved provided that, as from 1 january 2008, certain products from certain countries in these areas could benefit from special trade facilitations. however, this was subject to certain criteria, which not all the states concerned were able to meet. the commission has therefore rightly decided to withdraw from these agreements those countries which have not complied with the rules laid down: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am very pleased with the commission's proposal. the respect of agreements and guarantees should be the minimum that can be expected from partner countries when these conventions are drawn up. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which finally also makes the european case, which is too often trampled on, especially in the field of international trade.
in writing. − the encouragement of the use of intergovernmental agreements as a political guarantee, linked to the more systematic involvement of the commission, as a guarantee of transparency and compliance, should improve trade, industrial and international relations in the energy sector. furthermore, by strengthening coordination between states and private companies, it will help to strengthen the union's overall position as a buyer in the global energy products market, by discouraging uncoordinated initiatives and agreements that are clearly exposed to subsequent infringement proceedings. the convergence of practices in energy contracts with third countries is an element of the overall strengthening of foreign policy and the defence of european interests in the global context. it is good that the institutions are committed to protecting european companies, because the other players in this market are well aware of the strategic implications and are not particularly wary of playing a traditional role of regional influence where important interests are at stake. i therefore approve the report, with a special mention for the attention paid to the protection of business and commercial secrets, with the provision in article 3a, which is essential to enable companies to benefit effectively from the support of the european institutions.
in writing. − at present, the management of intergovernmental agreements between individual member states and third countries is more complex than ever; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to take part in the negotiations on the energy market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. legislation should therefore provide for the need for the final agreement to be notified and subject to scrutiny by the commission. not only that, but it would also be appropriate, in order to avoid wasting time and resources, for the commission to be granted an ex ante compliance check. on the other hand, unfortunately, this logic, which is the only one that is really compatible with the very idea of union, is, once again, being undermined by the interests of the member states and by the will of the latter not to be hindered in sensitive areas such as energy. i am sorry, however, to have to acknowledge that the moderate and conservative forces in this parliament have also taken the same line, and that they should always put the interests of the community first.
in writing. − to avoid breaching the rules on the internal market in the energy sector, we need greater cooperation between member states on intergovernmental agreements in the energy sector. information on such agreements should be shared between member states and the commission should be aware of contracts in force and ongoing negotiations. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i expressed my support for mr kariņš's text, since the measures adopted are designed to create the conditions for the strengthening of europe's external energy policy, as a prerequisite for the completion of the internal energy market. the difficult interinstitutional negotiations led to a final compromise which preserves the right of member states to request the european commission to intervene during the bilateral negotiations. specific clauses for the protection of commercially sensitive information have also been introduced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation, considering that it makes a real contribution to and complements rural development policy and market and income support policies under the common agricultural policy (cap). the quality and variety of the european union's agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture production is a major competitive advantage and strength for producers and an integral part of its cultural and gastronomic heritage. the citizens and consumers of the union are increasingly demanding quality and traditional products, and are concerned about maintaining the variety of agricultural production, which leads to a demand for agricultural products or foodstuffs whose specificity is clearly recognisable, particularly in terms of geographical origin. this regulation establishes quality schemes which form the basis for the identification and protection of names which indicate or designate in particular agricultural products. the following quality schemes currently exist: protected designation of origin (pdo), protected geographical indication (pgi), traditional speciality guaranteed (tsg), produced from organic farming and produced from the outermost regions. the proposal as reworked by parliament is an excellent and commendable legal basis.
in writing. the quality package proposed by the commission aims to define a coherent legal framework for the quality policy of agricultural products in the european union. the proposal as a whole is acceptable, particularly because of the comments and amendments made in parliament. in particular, it is of paramount importance to recognise the role, importance and responsibilities of producer associations, which can and must be the real focal point for the protection of products and for their placing on the market in accordance with the standards laid down, limiting as far as possible the risks of abuse and even worse fraud. i would like to stress in particular the changes introduced in respect of traditional specialities guaranteed (tsg). in this case, the commission's proposal appeared to be both inappropriate and punitive, especially in relation to the hypothesis of abolishing the non-reserved tsos by name, forcing the consortia to repeat the whole process in order to obtain new recognition. but thanks to parliament, common sense has prevailed. we believe that the introduction of a simplified procedure for registered gmos without reservation of name will ensure their survival and, above all, an extension of protection and a reduction of fraud, to the benefit of producers and consumers.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mrs garcía pérez. i believe that simpler and faster registration procedures will encourage farmers to register their quality products and ingredients and to better communicate their added value to consumers, who will then be able to make more informed choices. the role of food producers' groups is important, i.e. all associations of producers, processors or producers-processors, who will be able to take measures to protect their proprietary names and promote the authenticity and reputation of their goods. this vote comes as the debate on the reform of the cap 2014-2020 is getting into full swing, and we will also be discussing supply management, which is not included in the approved regulation.
in writing. - i commend the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the great work they have done to achieve this result; i therefore voted in favour of the report. important results have been achieved with the introduction of the 'ex officio protection' and the inclusion of the optional quality term 'mountain product' which can only be used to indicate a product (listed in annex i to the treaty) obtained from raw material mainly from mountain areas.
in writing. - the new quality standards approved today represent a tool, certainly enhanced, for those working in the agri-food sector to better exploit products and their territorial specificities, thus gaining important competitive advantages on the market. of particular importance is the possibility of a special label for mountain and island products, but also the possibility of establishing a new labelling scheme for local agriculture and direct sales in order to assist producers in marketing their products but only at local level. with this text, which i strongly supported, parliament is challenging itself to invest in the quality of typical regional products, relying on an increasing awareness of the consumer about the real origin and the production process that characterizes a given product.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. provisions should be laid down for the development of designations of origin and geographical indications at union level and mechanisms should be established for their external protection within the framework of the world trade organisation, where it is important to ensure the recognition of the quality of products and their production model as a factor of added value.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the principles which we in the league have always defended. this text is based, among other things, on an own-initiative report by my colleague giancarlo scottà on the quality of agricultural products, which was drawn up in 2010. our supermarkets are often flooded with products of dubious origin, and on our tables we risk finding foods of which we know very little: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the possibility is also given to indicate on the label additional and complementary information, which can only be of help to consumers. quality agriculture is an excellence of all our territories, and we therefore defend and protect it vigorously, also and above all at european level.
in writing. - i am very much in favour of this text, which is called the 'quality package', because it protects quality agricultural products and the recognised trademarks of pdo, pgi and gti. it is particularly interesting that the possibility of producing product-specific labels which recall both graphic representations of the territory of origin and particular qualities to be indicated is expressly provided for. the recognition of mountain products is also given and can only be used to indicate that the raw material and/or animal feed used originate from these areas as well as the processing. the term 'island product' may also be used. it is regrettable that the regulation adopted on tuesday on the labelling of beef has removed the possibility of indicating the characteristics of that product, such as the method of rearing and the quality of the nutrition.
in writing. the compromise text voted today considers the possibility for producer consortia to combat devaluing practices by adopting promotional and commercial initiatives aimed at limiting abuses. in addition to the simplification introduced in relation to the previous legislation, it is worth highlighting the fact that the use of community symbols in communications is maintained, and not restricted to labelling alone, as the commission had requested in its initial proposal.
in writing. - i welcome the regulation of the european social entrepreneurship fund (esf) set out in this report. the determination of access to the fund, the scope of application and the conditions of use are necessary procedures to make the efsi a business development and growth instrument as close as possible to the needs of operators and transparent in its articulation. the efsi, on the other hand, must be one of the levers for the development of the european union's economy and be used in accordance with criteria of efficiency and effectiveness that accompany the measures taken to adopt useful instruments in the strategy for exiting the crisis.
in writing. - the difficulties faced by many european companies call for a political commitment to improve business conditions. it is necessary to establish a common framework of rules regarding the use of the designation 'european social entrepreneurship fund (esif) ', with particular reference to the composition of the portfolio of funds operating under that designation, the eligible investment objectives, the instruments they may use and the investors who may invest in those funds under uniform rules in the union. in the absence of a common framework, there is a risk that member states adopt divergent measures at national level which directly affect and hinder the proper functioning of the internal market, as funds would be subject to different rules in different member states. in addition, the existence of divergent qualitative requirements on portfolio composition, eligible investment objectives and eligible investors could result in different levels of investor protection and confusion regarding the investment proposal associated with european social entrepreneurship funds. finally, we ask that investors be able to compare investment proposals from different efsi. it is necessary to remove significant barriers to cross-border capital raising and to avoid distortions of competition between such funds.
in writing. − social entrepreneurship plays an important role in the european union by bringing vulnerable and marginalised people into the world of work. we are very sensitive to and in favour of their economic support when it comes to european citizens belonging to vulnerable groups and in particular the disabled. we have our doubts about those social enterprises which try to consider "weak" people who are not weak. i am referring in this case to non-eu citizens who, in a time of economic crisis such as this, if there are no jobs available, would be better off not coming to europe. particular care must be taken to ensure that social entrepreneurship does not become a loophole for some firms to operate at lower prices than others and thus actually alter market conditions.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. safeguard mechanisms are urgently needed to avoid serious damage to the union's banana production, a sector which has a major impact on the final agricultural production of many of the outermost regions. the lack of diversification potential of these regions, as a result of their natural characteristics, makes the banana sector a particularly sensitive sector.
in writing. − parliament is taking a strong stance on key issues in the fields of communication, publishing and copyright. the report, as an expression of this commitment, is acceptable because it deals in a timely manner with a subject which is currently being debated and would therefore make it possible to draw up a reasonably simple regulation without too many problems of jurisprudential alignment. the online availability of orphan works across europe is also a necessary step towards building a climate of cultural richness, also in relation to the extraordinary variety and productivity of european authors as a whole. it is an initiative that, in addition to promoting continuing education, also for adults, also helps to provide additional opportunities in the cultural field for the so-called "millennial" generation, the young people who are now moving in an almost exclusively digital environment. the rapporteur's work on the aspects of copyright ascertainment, for the legal recognition of an orphan work, deserves special mention. this is a difficult question from a legal and operational point of view, which i believe the rapporteur has tackled with exemplary seriousness.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that the commission's proposal is a positive one. i fully share the objectives of promoting the union's cultural diversity and increasing the sources of knowledge and education through the online availability of orphan works throughout the eu. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. we must promote european culture by overcoming an anachronistic and restrictive bureaucracy but guaranteeing copyright. orphan works are works whose rightholder (s) cannot be identified or located, although in order to make a work accessible to the public an authorisation from the rightholder is required. for the new generations in particular, who are used to digital formats, what is not found on the internet may not even exist. a forgotten heritage, in short, that a powerful american search engine would like to take possession of exclusively, although for now limited to us works only. despite the commission's recommendation of 24 august 2006, only a few member states have introduced legislation on orphan works but allowing online access only to citizens residing in their national territories. what we parliamentarians are asking for today is that libraries, educational institutions, museums or archives be allowed to provide specific services by providing for the online dissemination of orphan works whose ownership right would be immediately recognized if, one day, a copyright holder came forward with a properly documented request.
in writing. the solution was finally found to establish a legal framework to promote the digitisation and dissemination of copyrighted or related works whose owner has not been identified or can not be traced. a work may be considered orphan after diligent and good faith research and may not be made public for profit. if the rights holders are eventually identified, the orphan work status will be terminated and they will be paid a lump sum considering that the distribution was free of charge. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. the commission's current proposal, on which parliament has delivered its opinion today, aims to allow libraries, educational establishments, museums or archives to provide specific services in the internal market for the online dissemination of orphan works, that is, works whose owner or rights holders cannot be identified or traced. the operational objectives of the proposal include reducing transaction costs associated with the online use of orphan works by such institutions and facilitating cross-border access to works.
in writing. - i agree with the aid, but i also agree that the proposed regulation should take account of the human rights situation in pakistan. a serious deterioration of this situation could therefore be a reason for suspending the application of the trade preferences granted to the country. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i will never tire of saying that agreements like these are the ruin of europe. the floods in pakistan are two years old and the european union has already helped the asian country immediately, with almost half a billion euros, and continues to do so: we voted on this in the committee on budgets just last week, and we voted on new appropriations for pakistan. what has been approved today is a criminal agreement, which is likely to be the death knell for the italian textile industry: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the victims of the floods, and it is hoping that the aid will be used to help the victims of the floods. if the aim is to wipe out the entire textile and manufacturing industry in some european countries then let it be said clearly: i'm from prato, a city that was one of the main textile districts in all of europe. local businesses that have barely survived to date may not survive this further blow; if things unfortunately go in this direction we will know very well who will be responsible. we in the league have always had a clear idea of this, others perhaps a little less.
in writing. - we are pleased that parliament's efforts to reduce the negative impact of the first draft of the waiver on pakistan have resulted in some significant changes such as the reduction of duties from 3 years to 15 months, the reduction to 25% of the original volume of quotas and the threshold for exclusion of products which cause sudden increases in imports.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this measure because i believe it will be effective in boosting pakistan's economic recovery after the recent floods. the choice to temporarily give this country the opportunity to export more goods to the eu at a duty-free rate will allow its economy to cushion the systemic damage suffered.
in writing. - this regulation is a new one: the use of a trade policy favourable to a third country instead of financial aid for humanitarian purposes. my vote is against this instrumental use of favouritism instead of economic aid. in the case of pakistan, the textile duties are being removed, which means destroying what is left in europe of an already seriously crisis-ridden sector. in that country there is no health and pension protection for workers, and men, women and children are exploited. it is clear that labour-intensive textiles will be coming to my country and to europe at extremely low prices. in italy, the crisis in the textile sector has led to the loss of tens of thousands of jobs; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is right to help pakistan in the wake of the disastrous floods that hit it, but it had to be done with emergency economic intervention and not at the expense of one sector.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation introducing emergency autonomous trade preferences for pakistan because i find it, quite frankly, absurd. in fact, it is difficult to see why such a complex and laborious regulation should be drawn up, since in a few years' time pakistan will enjoy the trade preferences established by the recent reform of the gsp+ system, which i have opposed, without much difficulty. this regulation also provides for the total elimination of duties on a certain list of 75 product lines which in fact concern almost exclusively the textile sector, with a devastating impact on the fabric of northern italy.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution because it reiterates its condemnation in the strongest possible terms of the increasing use of indiscriminate violence in syria. in particularly we denounce the use of heavy artillery and shelling against populated areas, and horrific killings by the syrian army, security forces and the shabiha, as well as by various opposition forces. i also would like to denounce, as a matter of priority, the support given by various external actors and states to all parties to the conflict, with financial, logistical and tactical aid, including the supply of weapons, munitions and all other types of military equipment. we must bear in mind that any further militarisation of the conflict can only bring greater suffering to the syrian people and the region as a whole.
in writing. − the greatest possible coordination between member states is needed, especially at the un. we must be firm with countries like china and russia, whose continued vetoes are helping to prolong the ongoing civil war.
in writing. - the fact that we have supported the resolution on syria, as we have done today, expresses the strong conviction of this parliament that: the right of the people to a peaceful and effective transition to democracy, capable of responding to the legitimate demands of the syrian people and based on an inclusive dialogue involving all democratic forces. the urgent need is to launch a process of profound democratic reforms, which also takes into account the need to ensure national reconciliation and which is committed to ensuring respect for the rights and freedoms of minorities, in particular ethnic and religious minorities. we are reiterating today, by this vote, the european parliament's strong support for the call by the united nations commissioner for human rights for the united nations security council to refer the situation in syria to the international criminal court for a formal inquiry. syria must make a strong commitment to ensure that all those responsible for violations of human rights and international law are identified and held accountable, and strongly support the work of the independent international commission of inquiry on syria, which is mandated to investigate all violations of international human rights standards and international humanitarian law committed in syria, with a view to bringing those responsible to justice.
in writing. the conviction of the female punk band pussy riot for "harassment motivated by religious hatred" is the result of a sentence that is weak in its motivation and disproportionate to the fact that it was a non-violent protest. the report also condemns the ill-treatment of the members of the group during their pre-trial detention and the reported irregularities in the trial. i expect that this ruling will be reviewed and reversed, in line with russia's international commitments.
in writing. - i welcome the resolution on the proposals for a european banking union (ebu). the fact that this resolution was adopted the day after the european commission presented two proposals to strengthen banking supervision shows that the european parliament - the only democratically elected institution - is willing to make its valuable contribution to creating those instruments which will give greater stability to the union and the single currency, without any negative repercussions for the countries of the union which are not part of the euro area. i believe it will be essential to achieve full operation of the european stability mechanism (esm) as soon as possible, which certainly further limits the sovereignty of states in public finance but at least has the advantage of not counting contributions paid by sovereign debts.
in writing. - it is right to stress first of all the need for the community method to prevail in times of crisis, as this is the only way to ensure that the union can emerge from the crisis stronger than before. it is also necessary to strengthen democratic legitimacy with regard to the proposed banking union and the single supervisory mechanism, with full involvement of parliament as co-legislator.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that, in order to get out of this crisis once and for all, new rules on banking supervision must be adopted, so as to combine efficiency with the guarantee of democratic legitimacy. the eu member states have now recognised the need to create an integrated system in this respect and must not be held back by concerns that this system may appear opaque and undemocratic.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, minister mavroyiannis, commissioner lewandowski, by voting tomorrow to ask parliament to support by a large majority what was approved in the committee on budgets, we intend to send a strong signal to the council in view of the forthcoming conciliation. before i go into the details, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues, as well as the officials and staff who have contributed during these months of work. as you know, the council has proposed a significant series of cuts, in clear contrast to the indications given by the european council of 28 and 29 june, where, at the highest political level, it was decided to invest to support europe's growth and development. we have therefore decided in our reading to restore the commission's draft budget and to increase resources selectively in certain budget headings closely linked to growth policies and job creation, especially for our young people. as i have said on other occasions, this is not a careless attitude in today's context: we are all aware of the financial difficulties facing each member state. but the response to the crisis, as the european council has also stressed, must be more europe, not less europe. i would call the position we are going to vote on tomorrow responsible. but responsible doesn 't mean renunciate . the commission's proposal is to contribute to economic recovery by means of specific and selective increases, which are more limited than in a normal reading of the european parliament, especially in terms of commitments, but which respect the general climate of austerity and the sacrifices imposed at national level. i therefore believe that the member states cannot accuse us of demanding increases which are not in line with the present crisis and i reiterate our determination to maintain an adequate level of investment to generate new economic impetus, in defence of the demands of our citizens in difficulty. i would now like to turn to the subject of payments. it is not lost on anyone that this is the most delicate point of the negotiations, but i think that this issue must be dealt with in technical rather than political terms. the level of payments fixed by the commission in the draft budget was determined on the basis of the member states' own estimates, revised downwards. the proposed 6,8% increase compared to 2012 is therefore nothing more than a realistic indication of the resources needed to pay member states' bills and to honour all commitments made from 2007 to date. we cannot today think of jeopardizing the implementation of certain european programmes, as has happened in recent days, and i find it inconceivable that the council's reading and the statements of certain ministers should be based on figures which are clearly not sufficient to finance these projects. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. it is a pity that these words are not followed by concrete actions. i think it is no exaggeration to say that we are facing a problem of credibility and reliability of the european union. paying bills is a legal obligation which we cannot afford to ignore and it is not for parliament to explain this to the member states. i would like to conclude by recalling the passage of the resolution accompanying tomorrow's vote in which parliament gives its conciliation committee the mandate not to accept the level of payments, both for draft amending budget no 6 and for the 2013 budget, if it does not adequately cover the payment needs for 2012 and 2013 as estimated by the commission.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission is submitting what is called the ‘draft budget’ as a basis for reading here in parliament and in the council. this is not our invention. to a large extent we are taking as a basis and verifying very critically what comes from 27 member states, both net payers into and net beneficiaries of the budget. i think jan mulder has posed the right question: what if we take at face value what is coming from the member states for next year? if we took at face value – without downward revision – what was coming from the 27 member states for next year, we should submit a draft budget which was 15 % higher for next year and not 6, 7 or 8 % higher, because we have critically revised what is coming from the member states. it would be more or less eur 10 billion more in the draft proposal. mr van dalen – who is no longer here – was asking on what planet our proposal was born. the planet is populated by the governments in the hague, in stockholm, in warsaw, in sofia, everywhere, and we are critically revising what is coming from these governments as their request for decent financing for 2013. as for the payments – the most sensitive issue in negotiations for next year – you can compare these to your monthly credit card bills. when the bills come in, it is too late to discuss them: you have to pay the bills, it is your contractual obligation to pay. that is why, especially now – at a time of austerity – we need to supplement the consolidation of public finances with a realistic growth and jobs agenda, as we have the tools in the budget, which is by nature an investment budget. however – and here it differs from national budgets – it also has macro-financing facilities for small- and medium-sized companies. therefore we should exploit all the possibilities of the european budget rather than cut it, in clear contradiction of the announcements by the member states in june 2013. i still remain hopeful for a decent budget for next year which will resolve the tensions of this year’s budget.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i have noted with interest the various points raised during this debate and will inform my colleagues in the council accordingly. i know that one should never shoot the messenger. at the same time, as president of the council and the personification of the institution i represent, i have to defend the position of the institution i represent, and i have to take some hits. all your comments, criticism and disagreements are welcome. however, i would like to make a small clarification concerning the way the council’s position on the 2013 budget was interpreted. the council has indeed scaled back the commission’s proposal, but it has accepted a 2.79 % increase on the current year. that is definitely not a decrease. the council has not made horizontal cuts across the board. we have established priorities, as suggested by mr torvalds, and we have examined every heading, policy and institution carefully and individually. we do not intend to let the union run out of money. for instance, we have kept the over eight percent increase for cohesion funding, as well as the full eur 55 billion for the european council’s growth and jobs pact referred to by mr lamassoure. this debate has certainly contributed to clarifying our respective positions. let me assure you that the council will do its utmost to find an agreement on the 2013 budget within the deadlines foreseen by the treaty. thank you very much for your attention. i hope i can count on your constructive cooperation in order to finalise the important task we have in front of us.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate and for the useful speeches by the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner. i think it is clear from most of the speeches by our colleagues in parliament that this parliament intends to defend the union's budget as proposed by the commission, because we are firmly convinced that the needs to get out of the crisis are found in certain headings and in certain policies of the european union: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. that is why we have proposed selective increases in heading 1a and if president mavroyiannis criticised the breaking of the ceiling, he must take account of the fact that, under the same heading, we have made cuts and made considerable savings, although we must also provide, under the same heading, eur 360 million for additional funding for iter, which the council had granted and planned for the current year with all the instruments available, including, of course, flexibility. on the other hand, i would like to point out that in terms of commitments parliament has not departed from the commission's proposals and has only made selective increases, whereas in terms of payments we have adjusted to the actual needs for payment. as president lamassoure said, it is a technical matter, not a political one. we must honour the commitments made, including by the council, in previous years. i hope therefore that during the conciliation process an agreement can be reached with the council on a satisfactory level of resources, which will ensure that the european budget is endowed with the sums needed to invest in growth and development, create new jobs and with a level of payments sufficient to honour all the commitments made.
in writing. i welcome the spirit of the draft report in question, which, rejecting the logic of cuts adopted by the european council, puts at the centre the idea of a european budget 2013 with a view to supporting growth and employment. i believe that the way out of the crisis is certainly a policy of austerity, but it is also necessary to put the question of the quality of spending at the centre of the choices, without this resulting in indiscriminate cuts which can only inhibit the already timid signs of economic recovery in europe. as the rapporteur has pointed out, 2013 is the last year of the current multiannual financial framework and it is essential that the balance between commitments and payments is maintained. in this context, i am concerned about the figures presented by the european commissioner for the budget, mr janusz lewandowski, concerning the deficits affecting all the headings of the european budget and, in particular, the cuts to the erasmus project. i am well aware that the general political guidelines on the 2013 budget largely reflect those on the negotiation of the next programming cycle 2014-2020, and i stress the importance of continuity over time in supporting investment in the training of our young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 20 years after the introduction of citizenship of the union - on 1 november 1993 with the maastricht treaty - the european commission has proposed to proclaim 2013 the european year of citizens. all european citizens can be active actors in the decision-making process by petitioning the european parliament or by contacting the european ombudsman. it is essential to give more visibility to the 'europedirect' and 'your europe' web portals as part of a one-stop shop information system on the rights of eu citizens, and to the existence and role of problem-solving tools such as solvit or consular protection, which we will be discussing this very week. support for research and innovation are objectives to be achieved in line with the europe 2020 strategy. the text does not, however, pay due attention to unfair competition which may occur as a result of the free movement of persons and the mobility of workers and businesses between member states with different fiscal and administrative rules. that is why i shall be voting against.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs papadopoulou's work has been valuable and, as she herself has said, the commissioner must be acknowledged for making a courageous choice at this stage. the crisis has shown that there is a negative tendency in some states, in many institutions and political representatives, to seek to solve the problems of the crisis by questioning the rights of individuals, as if a reduction in rights automatically meant an exit from a state of difficulty. these rights are sometimes those of the person as such, of the worker, of the woman or man who has an activity, and often they are those denied to citizens. i believe that reconstructing this chain between the person - the worker, that is, the function of production - and citizenship is a political and cultural choice that is indispensable. the year of citizenship will help us in this too.
in writing. the year 2013 was declared the european year of citizens in order to strengthen the links between citizens and the european institutions and, above all, to explain clearly to everyone what it means to have european citizenship, what rights students, workers, jobseekers, volunteers, consumers, entrepreneurs or even pensioners enjoy when they choose to move and reside freely in another member state. it is important to raise awareness among citizens, but also among national and european institutions, because too often we talk about rights which are then difficult to enforce because of the bureaucratic delays and the obstacles which still stand in the way of their exercise. our commitment must be to work in such a way that today a young person, or even a less young person, can study or work in any of the 27 member states without feeling like a foreigner, without having to go through endless channels and being able to use the qualifications obtained in their country of origin, as well as social security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 september the catalan people demonstrated peacefully in barcelona. a million people have called for catalonia's independence from spain. on october 15, in a speech, british prime minister cameron signed the agreement to allow the referendum for scotland's independence from london. in my region, veneto, in recent weeks thousands of people have signed up to hold a referendum on veneto's independence from italy. yesterday in veneto, lombardy and all the northern regions, hundreds and thousands of people signed up for more autonomy from rome. but in flanders and the basque country too, citizens are clamoring for autonomy and independence from the national states. what does president schulz say? it requires a courageous commitment to say clearly no to all separatist tendencies. his deputy, vidal-quadras, is even worse, even calling for the use of force against the catalan people. their statements are a very serious act, contrary to the principles of the democracy which we are here preaching and which we should defend. i say to them that the future of the new europe will be written by the people, not by the bureaucrats in brussels. the road is already paved.
in writing. in an economic context such as the present one, characterised by high unemployment and a sharp fall in investment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) must be a priority for the european parliament. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the united states of america has been the main economic partner of the european states for decades, but there are still barriers, mostly non-tariff barriers (such as quotas, subsidies or monopolies), which prevent the full development of trade relations between europe and america. an eu-us agreement that removes these barriers would be a major step forward in the development of transatlantic trade relations and would help open up a market for european businesses. in the context of a free trade agreement, i would like to see greater protection for products and a more vigorous commitment by the united states to combating counterfeiting. the phenomenon of consumer suggestion causes enormous economic damage to our producers which can no longer be tolerated.
in writing. i welcome the excellent report on passenger rights in all modes of transport, such as clear and correct information, transparent ticket prices, insurance in the event of company bankruptcy, the establishment of a complaint centre and a free eu-wide hotline. particular attention is paid to the needs of people with reduced mobility, who sometimes have to pay for the lack of adequate facilities, and to the development of intermodal transport. i am also pleased that the request that the commission should address the proliferation of unfair clauses in air carrier contracts, such as the unfair obligation for passengers to use both routes on a sequential air ticket, has also been included. with the adoption of passenger rights in bus transport in 2011 which has yet to come into force, the european union now has an integrated set of fundamental passenger rights in all modes of transport. although the commission feels that it is too early at this stage to envisage a single regulation covering passengers of all modes of transport, i hope that parliament's requests will be heard by the commission because unfortunately we are still seeing cases of non-compliance with the rights of european travellers.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing and for which i am drawing up the opinion on the interim report, has clearly called for the cap budget to be frozen in real terms, not nominal terms, as proposed by the european commission. despite our clear and largely majority position, at this delicate moment in the negotiations i feel i can fully support the owninitiative report by our colleagues böge and kalfin, who have done an excellent job, and this will enable us to have a strong, compact and united negotiating position in parliament. however, i must stress that if the budget for the common agricultural policy were to be cut further, it would be very difficult to reach agreement on the reform process. all the political groups in the committee on agriculture have always reiterated their desire not to have a final vote on the reform reports until there is clarity on the budget. and the budget must be adapted to the challenges of the agriculture of the future.
the budget is the road map of an institution. the budget shows what it is, what it does and, above all, what it intends to do in the future. we are faced with a crucial choice between a budget of survival, of dragging along - perhaps a little less for everyone - or a budget of courage, of selective choices, of investment in employment, in innovation, in young people, in other words in the future of the european union and its vocation for development. everyone should understand that, as mr kalfin has said very clearly, europe can do today what the states are no longer able to do for the economy, for regional development, for the territories, where social cohesion is affirmed or destroyed, in short for the lives of the citizens we have spoken of. the major european decisions are now in danger of being drowned out by accountancy disputes within the council, but not only between the beneficiary countries and the paying countries. we say that this is a false problem, because it is easy to show with figures, with numbers, not with words, because of what has happened in the past, that the contributing countries, sometimes even more than others, benefit from the convergence of economies and growth. the council is working these days to put figures next to the various headings. the war of position has begun: the commission has already made a number of statements, statements of position by certain states, which consider the budget to be just another item of expenditure which can be cut without regret, and which may even serve to reinforce anti-european sentiment, which is easy to stir up in times of economic crisis. it's a wrong position, which doesn't help the kind of integration that we're trying to do in other fields. ladies and gentlemen, our europe is still incomplete and mutilated: we've said it many times. we have adopted a stability pact which was also supposed to be developmental: but we've stabilized so much that we're in recession. let us at least take the opportunity of this budget and this multiannual framework to make choices in the right direction.
on behalf of the efd group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this interim report on the multiannual financial framework offers some interesting and shareable insights, such as the need to maintain a moderate and sustainable level of expenditure and the importance of having greater flexibility in the use of resources. the crucial point is another one, namely how to finance all this. the current mechanism is not sustainable, and it is not acceptable to introduce new forms of correction and compensation for member states. italy has had an average negative return of eur 5 billion per year over the last decade. northern italy must support both a country that is going to the dogs and a europe that serves only the interests of germany and a few other states. the united kingdom, germany and other countries have had corrections which they would still like to maintain. this is not possible, otherwise it would perhaps make more sense to introduce a correction for the northern part of italy, to compensate for what citizens of northern italy pay to the central government in rome and brussels and which only returns a small part of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, even though i think things are going better, the impression after this council is that the principle of the 'penelope curtain' is valid if you have actually had to go back twice on things you thought you had already acquired. so i ask you, with regard to the single supervisory mechanism, which is certainly a good compromise, what does the commission intend to do to put pressure on the member states which are pushing for its postponement? what is being done to get them to settle down in more reasonable positions? in fact, time is also money, as has been repeatedly pointed out by authoritative officials in various countries. and while there may be the problem of those countries asking for more time, there does not seem to be much consideration given to the fact that decisions are postponed indefinitely and that these decisions are pursued with determination. i believe that the council's results should be welcomed, but at the same time we must put all the weight we can on them so that they are effective immediately.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, a common currency requires a true economic union: the european union is not a system of rules and discipline but an economic government, based on democratic institutions and adequate resources. the european parliament therefore insists that there are no effective and legitimate solutions which are not based on the community method and the institutions of the union and that the european parliament is the parliament of the euro because the euro is the currency of the union. it is good that the european council's conclusions recall these principles, but they must be consistently and concretely rejected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's budget is not used as a vehicle for the creation of new jobs. we are against individual contracts: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of democracy in the community. parliament proposes a different model: binding general economic and social objectives defined in co-decision at eu level; the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to achieve these objectives. this approach suggests a more ambitious and realistic vision of a europe in which stability, growth, social cohesion and democracy go hand in hand. this calls for a fifth social pillar and a federal transition aimed at building public consensus on the basis of a clear road map: 1) to correct the line of austerity and the intergovernmental method by rapid decisions that make the most of the possibilities offered by the treaties and give priority to growth and employment; 2) make the next european elections an election for the eu government; finally, to convene a convention to complete the building of a genuine democratic government for europe and its currency. parliament calls on you to act, and parliament will exercise its prerogatives to the full.
mr president, in the many e-mails you sent us inviting us to be present for this photograph, you explained that it would be used to welcome visitors to parliament and would therefore be used by the services. it is very good that president barroso and president van rompuy will also be in this picture, and that their presence in this picture will be a testimony to all those who come to brussels to the unity of action and intention of the european institutions.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as every year, due to the complexity of the procedure, there are some technical adjustments to be voted on. first, the general reference to be taken into account for the figures is the so-called "doc 6". in the case of multiple amendments, the vote shall be taken on all the lines to which they relate. secondly, there are some corrections to the pilot projects and preparatory actions which we will have to vote on. the pilot project 'development of indicators to measure the implementation of the european charter for equality between women and men in local life' is adopted under heading 3a and not under heading 1a. the preparatory action 'consumption of fruit and vegetables' is adopted under heading 2 and not under 3b. the pilot project 'promoting self-care health systems in the european union' has €1,000,000 in payments instead of €100,000. preparatory action 'climate mainstreaming and innovation' is reduced by 2 million compared to the db (both in commitments and payments). the preparatory action 'european voluntary humanitarian aid corps' is reduced by 1 million compared to the pb (both in commitments and payments). i should also point out that parliament's position does not take into account letter of amendment no 1/2013 adopted by the commission on 19 october, which will be supplemented during the conciliation. i would like to conclude by calling for a vote: parliament's unity and cohesion are more important than ever for the 2013 budget. we are facing a difficult and difficult conciliation with the council, which seems unwilling to make the necessary resources available. i therefore ask you to vote strongly, to show that parliament is united and to fight this battle together.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to emphasize very briefly that today we are adopting a new regulation which is more modern, simpler in terms of the way the funds are managed and with more effective rules to deal with and overcome the challenges of the current crisis. thank you, everybody.
mr president, the policy of austerity adopted to get out of the economic crisis has not produced the desired results. as mr la via's report has pointed out, it is only by investing more selectively and by supporting the ideal of a european budget to support growth and employment that the economies of the member states can be rebalanced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of european citizens. that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleagues la via and vaughan for the excellent work they have done on the 2013 budget; i would like to stress in particular the commitment of the european parliament to the erasmus programme: since 1987, more than 2.5 million european students have been involved in an opportunity to go abroad to study and work. we voted against the council's cuts and asked for some 30 million more than the commission's proposal. we must not only save erasmus, but we must also implement it and, more generally, we must propose a european strategy for young people, because young people cannot afford the costs of the crisis, especially at a time when youth unemployment is close to 25% in europe.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr la via on the excellent work he has done in his report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. the task facing my colleague was a difficult one, since agreement between the member states and the european parliament seemed distant and difficult to achieve. despite the protracted crisis and the continuing calls for cuts in eu spending, mr la via and mr vaughan have managed to ensure continuity in the policies and initiatives under way. i think it is particularly important that we have avoided a slowdown in the pilot initiatives on the environment and energy, a clear sign of the good work done by the european parliament in defending the prerogatives of the european union. that is why i have given my full support to this report.
mr president, the social and economic context in which the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 is being discussed is rather problematic. with member states committed to making fiscal adjustments to their national budgets to balance public finances, the european union is sometimes seen as adding to the financial burden on taxpayers. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in times of crisis, when member states are calling for a reduction in community aid, we must spend the funds available better, by allocating them to the real priorities: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the british rebate, which has so far amounted to some 97 billion euros, is unacceptable in my view. my country, italy, can no longer afford the luxury of being a net contributor and of paying out more than it receives, especially in order to finance these anachronistic rebates. in 2011 alone, italy had a negative balance of almost eur 6 billion. i would like to conclude, on the subject of cutting waste, by saying that today the european parliament has sent a clear message to get to a single seat quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by reminding you that the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 are taking place in a very difficult social, economic and financial context. i regret to say that the union is increasingly seen by citizens as an entity which adds to the financial burden on taxpayers rather than as a valuable resource. i am convinced that this situation is caused by the fact that the budget of the european union is in contradiction with national budgets, since it has not been extended in relation to the scope of the tasks and competences conferred on the union by the treaty of lisbon, but also in relation to the important political decisions taken by the european council itself. i voted in favour of the report because i am aware of the need for an interinstitutional compromise and a clear signal to the citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the alleged illegal actions of martin ehrenhauser, against whom the vienna public prosecutor's office intends to initiate proceedings, do not fall within the opinions or votes expressed by the member in the exercise of his duties under article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. like the committee on legal affairs, i am in favour of the waiver of the immunity of martin ehrenhauser.
in writing. − at the sitting on 2 july 2012, the president announced, pursuant to rule 6 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, that he had received a request from the vienna public prosecutor's office on 21 march 2012 to waive the parliamentary immunity of martin ehrenhauser in the context of pending proceedings against him, and referred this request to the committee on legal affairs. martin ehrenhauser was heard by that committee on 17 september 2012. considering the alleged actions for which the vienna prosecutor's office intends to bring proceedings against martin ehrenhauser, it is clear that these are not opinions or votes expressed by the member in the exercise of his functions under article 8 of the protocol on privileges and immunities. in line with the conclusion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights that the parliamentary immunity of martin ehrenhauser should be waived, i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. the vienna prosecutor's office intends to bring proceedings against martin ehrenhauser, a member of the european parliament. martin ehrenhauser is suspected of improper access to a computer system under paragraph 118a of the austrian criminal code, of breach of telecommunications secrecy under paragraph 119 of the code, of unlawful acquisition of data under paragraph 119a of the code, of unlawful use of a recording or interception device under paragraph 120 (2) of the code, and of breach of paragraph 51 of the data protection act 2000. furthermore, it is suspected that martin ehrenhauser made available a recording of an unofficial statement made by a person without his consent to a third party for whom it was not intended, by sending the recording of a conversation between several persons, including hans-peter martin, to one of the persons involved, who in turn would have forwarded it to the vienna public prosecutor's office. therefore, in view of the gravity of the facts, this vote in favour calls for the waiver of the immunity of the austrian member of parliament.
in writing. - as i said in the debate in the chamber, today's vote was a demonstration of unity and coherence. i am very pleased with the result of today's vote, because by a large majority the members supported our proposal to eliminate the huge cuts proposed by the council. it is unthinkable that in a time of crisis member states should propose to cut investment and funds for research, development and employment. this is also contrary to what was stated by the heads of state or government in june, and this contradiction of the council must be made clear. i would like to speak briefly about payments. the bills have to be paid. this is a simple rule, as well as a legal obligation, and i hope that during the conciliation period the council will be able to accept an agreement which takes account, first of all, of the demands of the european citizens, who are asking us to invest in growth, in the competitiveness of enterprises and above all in job creation.
in writing. - all european countries are pursuing austerity policies, sometimes very harsh: it is not acceptable for europe to continue to look the other way, ignoring the serious situation that is affecting us all. the result achieved seems to me to be an acceptable compromise, in which the commitments are not overstated, but rather the focus is on payments: it would be nice to promise money and funding for everyone, but in the end the reckoning has to be made and we risk finding ourselves each year with dozens of cases like the one that recently concerned the erasmus programme. i am very pleased that the 2013 budget makes a clear and explicit reference to the need for a single seat for the european parliament, a battle that i myself started in february by collecting the necessary signatures to present an amendment that goes in this direction: it is not a question of demagogy or populism, but of acknowledging a reality which is absolutely unsustainable. the same can be said for the project of the "house of european history": i am glad that the appropriations have been reduced, although i think the whole project should be stopped and reviewed.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is intended to establish parliament's position on the draft budget of the european union for 2013. in addition, the budget for the distribution of food aid to the most deprived is maintained and funds are provided for competitiveness and innovation, in particular for erasmus mundus and to support lifelong learning. i voted against the paragraphs opposing the retention of the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg.
in writing. the house of european history, which is being built in brussels, a few steps from the european parliament, is an idea which would have been my absolute favourite in other times. the disproportionate increase in the costs of the work in progress and the recent opening of the new multimedia visitor centre 'parlamentarium' have led me today to accept amendments nos 16 and 26 calling for the freezing of funds for the 'house of european history' until the project itself is abolished.
in writing. − considering that the current economic climate in many member states is characterised by national austerity, weak growth, recession and lack of international competitiveness, parliament must act responsibly by approving the 2013 budget with a clear vision of how the budget can be used to boost growth and competitiveness within the european union. moreover, bearing in mind that many member states, after years of growth characterised by unsustainable public sector spending, are making extraordinary efforts to reduce national debt and deficits, eu public spending should be subject to the same discipline as member states. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal, stressing that parliament must provide the council with a draft budget which increases expenditure where it is important and cuts where it is not.
in writing. - the european parliament has decided to restore the commission's draft budget and to increase resources selectively in certain budget chapters closely linked to growth policies and job creation, especially for our young people. however, as regards payments, i note that the level set by the commission in the draft budget was determined on the basis of the member states' own estimates, revised downwards. we cannot today think of jeopardizing the implementation of certain european programmes. i think it is no exaggeration to say that we are facing a problem of credibility and reliability of the european union. paying bills is a legal obligation which we cannot afford to ignore and it is not for parliament to explain this to the member states. i therefore hope that during the conciliation process an agreement can be reached with the council on a satisfactory level of resources, which will ensure that the european budget is endowed with the necessary resources to invest in growth and development, create new jobs, and with a level of payments sufficient to honour all the commitments made in recent years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal by mr böge and mr kalfin on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. this is the second time that parliament has spoken on this subject, after the report of the sure special committee, but we have decided to speak again as the negotiations are now about to enter a decisive phase, which will see a european council at the end of november devoted specifically to the discussion of this sensitive subject. as you know, the commission's proposal represents a kind of freezing of expenditure at the level of the previous mff and is therefore not a sufficient proposal for us to adequately meet the global challenges that lie ahead in the coming years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we therefore considered amending the proposals which aimed to eliminate the differences in direct payments between member states, introducing instead a generic wording of reduction.
in writing. − the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 are not finding fertile ground in an economic and financial environment in which member states are forced to make tough fiscal consolidation moves. however, it is impossible not to recognise the union budget as a huge added value to the investments made at national level. the commission proposal, however, represents a freeze of ceilings at the 2013 level and significantly weakens the calls made by the sure committee to increase community policies aimed at competitiveness, small and medium-sized enterprises and sustainable infrastructure. parliament wants a 'responsible' reaction from the council. any attempt to reduce the ceilings proposed by the commission would result in a loss not only of effectiveness but also of credibility of the union budget.
in writing. − the contraction of the eu budget compared to national budgets is in flagrant contradiction with the extension of the tasks and competences conferred on the union by the treaty and with the important political decisions taken by the european council itself, notably the development of strengthened european economic governance. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted against amendment no 23, which denied the usefulness of decentralised european agencies. on what basis can we say that the food safety agency in parma, for example, is useless, since it was the first to sound the alarm immediately when 'blue mozzarella' from a german producer was discovered?
in writing. - i congratulate mr kalfin and mr böge on their work. by approving this document today, parliament, in the light of articles 311 and 312 tfeu and in the light of its resolution of 13 june 2012 on the multiannual financial framework and own resources, has taken a strong stand in pointing the way to growth and competitiveness in europe. in particular, it underlines the need for well-targeted, robust and appropriate support from member states to the eu budget, all in order to help coordinate and strengthen national efforts. the commission is therefore expressly calling for a significant increase in funding from the community budget to boost competitiveness, the development of small businesses, entrepreneurship, sustainable infrastructure, research and innovation. this increase, together with a reprogramming of own resources, will help the eu to cope with and overcome the crisis in the member states.
in writing. − it is necessary to insist that the eu budget prioritise helping member states to cope with the strains of the difficult economic and financial environment. we need concerted action to tackle the current challenges of loss of competitiveness and rising unemployment and poverty. with particular regard to italy, it is necessary to emphasise its role as one of the largest contributors to the eu budget. that is why i think it is necessary to ensure that the priority is to increase the impact of the funds on growth and employment. for the cap, the commission proposed a reduction, keeping its value in nominal terms stable compared to 2007-13. the largest reduction was in direct aids (from 322 to 281 billion (-12%). the commission is seeking to introduce greater equity in the distribution of aid (for which a system of convergence of all countries towards the community average of support per hectare is provided for). i cannot agree with the general approach of the proposal for the allocation of direct aid from the cap, which is exclusively linked to the quantitative criterion of agricultural area, contrary to the objective of growth and increased employment. i hope that my vote in favour will not lead to a reduction in the cap, which could make it too burdensome.
in writing. - we have already seen how the economic crisis has helped to accelerate the process of european integration; the report by mr dehaene, which i support, touches on a fundamental element of the construction of europe, namely its financing through fiscal autonomy and responsibility. i have no doubt that the system of collection by the national states is conceptually outdated, in the face of forms of integration driven by taxation, regulation and general policies. such an asymmetry denounces an anachronism, which the report proposes to overcome by an effective synthesis. in particular, the benefits in terms of transparency and lower costs for the member states will be able to compensate for the apparent additional loss of sovereignty linked to the exercise of activities which are in fact statistical and no longer managerial. in this sense, the transfer of more burdens to the commission appears justified. the report's predictions, if adopted, will help to develop a widespread european consciousness as a community of destiny, which will allow many of the issues currently under intense debate on sovereignty and governance to be shelved.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the proposal for a new vat own resource at eu level is undoubtedly a major improvement on the current system and offers real prospects for future transformation into a genuine, stable and reliable own resource for the union budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the value added tax own resource because in a system of the internal market regulated by the european union it is functional that vat is paid and managed by the european union and not by the member states.
in writing. − the proposal for decision vii on own resources (drp) which involves abolishing the current vat own resource and replacing it with a new eu-wide vat resource would be a major improvement over the current system, with concrete possibilities for the future transformation of vat into a genuine, stable and reliable own resource for the union budget. given the considerable simplification of the calculation of vat, the reduced administrative burden, the equal treatment of all member states, and the wish that the vat own resource can be part of a general reform of the own resources system, which should considerably reduce the overall level of national contributions of the member states, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i congratulate mr dehaene on his work. in view of its resolution of 8 june 2011 entitled 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe' and article 311 tfeu, parliament today approved a proposal for a regulation which, supporting what has already been proposed by the commission, welcomes the abolition of the current vat own resources and the creation of a new vat own resource at eu level. in particular, it was stressed that a new key criterion for a genuine vat own resource should be that it be paid directly to the eu budget, thus eliminating the pass through of national administrations. this proposal is addressed to the commission if not for the period 2014-2020, at least for the next one, when the own resources system should be reformed so as to achieve full financing of the eu budget from own resources.
in writing. - the agreement on vat reform is necessary to define the method by which member states are to calculate this new resource and also the procedures for its transfer to the eu budget. i believe that a new vat own resource at eu level could be an improvement on the current system by being able to become a reliable own resource contributing to the eu budget. the vat own resource transfers to the european commission the bulk of the burden of the calculations currently carried out by the member states, with a consequent reduction in the overall level of the member states' national contributions. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal to abolish the current vat own resources and to create a new vat own resource at eu level.
in writing. − the financial regulation marks an important step towards simplifying the way the eu budget funds are managed. the set of rules (which, i recall, includes over 500 amendments negotiated with the council for almost a year) will enable us to have, as from 1 january 2013, new legal and operational instruments which will be more effective and efficient in order to face the challenges of an economic and political crisis. the new provisions are numerous, and one of them is the new title viii, which is entirely devoted to new financial instruments co-financed by the total budget of the union to promote new revenue to support community policies at this particular moment of crisis. new and simpler rules in shared management, namely those between the commission and the member states, provide for new control bodies, which will provide declarations certifying that appropriations have been spent for the intended purpose or the suspension of appropriations. new and simpler rules for the establishment and management of public-private partnerships (ppps), particularly in the fields of research and industry.
in writing. - i believe that europe, through its budgetary policies, can provide a viable solution to the crisis and that, through the right choice of priorities, starting with the growth and innovation policies of europe's rural areas, it can give a strong signal of change. i believe that it is within the european institutions, even before at local level, that the economic power of producers in the production chain must be strengthened through positive results of the budgetary procedures. negotiation with the council will lead to a proper implementation of the european programmes in terms of maintaining a strong common agricultural policy through a constant agricultural budget. by setting an effective framework for reforms in this sector, the rest of the economy can be strengthened. growth, at the heart of parliament's agenda, will be pursued through a cycle of funding aimed at pursuing long-term objectives, starting with strengthening the competitiveness of european agricultural enterprises on the world stage. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the acaa is a very good agreement in itself: it is a matter of simplification, which i certainly hope for, but to think that this is a technical agreement seems naive to me, or perhaps we are being ill-intentioned. there is a very long list of demands on the israeli authorities from the european union, from the high representative, from our consuls in east jerusalem and from this parliament on the west bank settlements, the continued annexation of east jerusalem, the situation in gaza and the resumption of the peace process. if we look at what we have achieved as the european union with these demands, we see no real progress and no serious concessions. for this reason i think this is anything but a politically neutral measure. my delegation will vote against the acaa and i ask the commission, if the acaa is approved, for the highest degree of surveillance, both for the traceability of the products of the colonies, which is a problem, which does not concern the good faith of the commission but israel, and for the extension to other products without the role of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, for years this parliament has been unable to overcome the ideological divide between those who are pro-palestinian and those who are pro-israel, even when the debate is purely technical. the acaa provides for the extension of certain benefits of the internal market to sectors which are already aligned but which require further regulation to facilitate market access for industrial products and to remove technical barriers. the agreement must be framed on a commercial basis, because it will facilitate european access to the markets for pharmaceutical products and complete the trade policy which the union is pursuing with the mediterranean countries. the debate on possible problems of doubtful origin for certain exported products should be included on a commercial basis, a risk we would not face if the council had adopted the regulation on designation of origin, which is blocked and is liable to be set aside because of political misunderstandings and conflicting interests. we call on the house to separate commercial assessments from political ones and we ask that the agreement be voted on instead of continuing with a sterile instrumentalisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the european union's nobel prize: i would like the citizens to hear some speeches in this house! in the face of dialogue and respect for human rights and tolerance. i hope that the commission will go ahead with this project which is technically, economically and socially useful for dialogue, useful for consumers, useful for companies, useful for workers - and i do not care whether they are jews, christians or muslims - who work for israel, which from the point of view of pharmaceutical research is a model to be reached and to compete with. the sad thing is that we do not hear the same indignation in this house from a hypocritical, hypocritical, hypocritical left when human rights are ignored in other parts of the world, in north africa, in the middle east. if you want to continue the israel-palestine derby, no one wins. i hope that this is a piece of peace that this parliament will bring to that land and those who vote against it should be ashamed of themselves, as far as i am concerned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again when we discuss relations between the european union and israel, our chamber is divided ideologically and passes a technical agreement over to the political confrontation, regardless of its content. this agreement is not an upgrade of relations between the european union and israel; it is not a text of international law that delimits borders and defines sovereign rights. the legal services of parliament and the commission support this, stressing that the acaa with israel does not go beyond the existing legal framework. it is a technical agreement which will make it easier for many european citizens to have access to high quality medicines at low cost, with considerable savings for our national health services. italy will save about 1 billion euros a year, which is not a small amount in this difficult economic situation. it is for these reasons that i think this agreement should be approved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone in this house that the scope of the measure we are voting on this evening goes far beyond the specific subject we are discussing. i consider myself a lifelong friend of israel and i personally have no doubt that the conflict that has for decades pitted much of the arab world against israel is mainly - if not exclusively - due to the fact that too many in the arab world do not want to admit the right of the state of israel to exist. that said, however, we cannot but strongly denounce the fact that the repeated violations of international law and the agreements signed by the israeli government have over time triggered a spiral which israel must also - precisely because it claims to be the only democracy in the middle east - help to break with determination. we therefore ask that this matter be referred back to the inta committee and that it be frozen until there are decisive signals from israel for the dismantling of settlements in the illegally occupied palestinian territories and for greater respect for the right to existence of the palestinian people, signals which must also be encouraged by a more effective european foreign policy in that area, which is today wholly inadequate. secondly, although we cannot vote in favour of the measure, we believe that this house should at least support the amendment tabled by mr moreira, mr de keyser and mr schaake, which seeks to exclude the possibility that the benefits provided for israel by this regulation should also be extended to products from the illegally occupied territories.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results of the votes and other relevant details, see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2013 will rightly be the year of the european citizens. it is an important initiative because it is of the utmost importance to remember, reaffirm and disseminate, particularly among young people, the rights and gains they enjoy as a result of being a european citizen. today, thanks to the process of european integration, citizens of the union in the territory of other member states can live, work, study and travel without restrictions, have access to health care, enjoy rights and protections as passengers, as consumers and can also vote and be elected in elections to the european parliament and in municipal elections in the member state in which they reside. these are important achievements, which not only have a strong symbolic significance in strengthening and promoting the sense of belonging to europe, but also bring undisputed practical benefits and opportunities. yet, as the eurobarometer survey has confirmed and as i see daily in my work as a member of parliament, there is often a lack of awareness of these rights and the values and principles that inspire them. it is therefore important to spread and publicize as much as possible, particularly in schools but not only, the great wealth of our dual citizenship, the european one which complements and strengthens the national one.
mr president, the lack of information and awareness of their rights, together with language barriers and the non-recognition of diplomas and qualifications, are the most common problems encountered by union citizens when they live, study or work in another country of the european union. unfortunately, there is still a lack of visibility of the concept of union citizenship and its concrete benefits. that is why i have expressed my support for 2013 as the european year of citizens. the primary objective is to raise awareness of the rights attaching to citizenship of the union and to help citizens to exercise fully their right to move and reside freely within the territories of the member states.
mr president, almost 20 years after the legal definition of the concept of european citizenship, only 43% of union citizens consider the term 'european union citizen' to be familiar. they lack information, they lack awareness of their rights: language barriers and the non-recognition of diplomas, degrees and qualifications are the issues that european citizens face on a daily basis. i therefore share the commission's initiative to dedicate 2013 to the citizens of the union. i also fully support the rapporteur's approach to extending the scope of the decision, focusing on raising awareness among citizens, on their rights as european citizens and not just on the issue of free movement. i also hope that this year's theme for 2013 will not once again be merely celebratory but will set the stage for the creation of a political framework for future measures and actions needed to consolidate citizenship of the union.
mr president, establishing a year of citizens is a way of putting the european union's half a billion people back at the centre. is to be able to think that all the other measures we are discussing these days - the banking union, the economic and financial measures to combat the crisis - must have the interest of the citizens as their first objective: the european year we have just voted on is aimed at strengthening the rights of citizenship, the role of associations in the union, and the mobility of students, teachers, artists and cultural workers. in short, it is the strengthening of european identity through the inclusion of concrete actions in which citizens are the main actors. it is a way of really building the union from the ground up, and that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, i voted in favour of the foster report which calls for the commission to take strong action, including sanctions, to induce member states to reduce their borders in european skies. the single european sky is an ambitious project to create a single airspace that will increase capacity and efficiency in air traffic management from a functional, economic and environmental point of view. the implementation of the sesar programme, the technological pillar of the single sky, is vital to the success of the single european sky, especially since 2015, when the programme is due to start. unfortunately, the shortcomings of the single sky remain numerous, particularly in the implementation of fabs, functional airspace blocks. in this respect, however, i welcome the renewed impetus given a few days ago by italy and the other countries concerned in the blue med fab, which has strategic value because it involves the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean.
mr president, the protection of passengers' rights is becoming increasingly important, especially in times of crisis such as the present one, where cuts in transport costs and the sudden bankruptcy of companies in the sector can lead to serious inconveniences for travellers. all too often the newspapers report reports of flights being cancelled and hundreds of passengers left stranded for days on end. and that's not to mention train delays and cancellations, which leave thousands of workers, students and entire families stranded, often without any useful information about alternatives to getting back home or to their jobs. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. work must be done to ensure that multilingual information points are provided for changes in itineraries and reservations in the event of flight or train cancellations, in order to maximise the protection of union citizens.
mr president, passenger rights must be at the heart of the debate when we talk about transport. the concept of accessibility is the key point of this report. accessibility for all in terms of physical, destination and information. it is necessary to be able to provide correct information to users, using different methods and taking into account different needs. in addition, passengers must be able to access assistance services through a helpdesk staffed by trained and competent staff. finally, we are calling again for the revision of the package travel directive, which provides a clearer and safer legal framework for consumers and businesses in both ordinary and extraordinary situations, avoiding abuses and unfair practices and ensuring greater transparency. mr bach's report covers all these aspects and for these reasons i have decided to vote in favour.
mr president, it is indisputable that if the european union is to emerge from the crisis, it must strengthen the competitiveness of european small and mediumsized enterprises, which are responsible for 85% of job creation. in view of this situation, which makes it necessary to harmonize national industrial policies more closely, i think it is equally essential to achieve another objective: the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. only 25% of smes operate across borders within the european union. i therefore agree with the commission's plans to promote the process of internationalisation and the rapporteur's need to provide specific information on the priority markets and details of the various support services available. i would like to conclude by stressing the need for greater coordination of the various initiatives at european union level. in a period of rationalisation of public spending, we cannot afford to duplicate efforts or policies, with the risk of generating unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic burdens.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution on trade and economic relations between the european union and the united states because it is an important, balanced and comprehensive report, for which i thank president moreira, and because it also gives us a comprehensive picture of the trade and economic prospects and the nodes and challenges of the meeting between the two major economies of the world, which account for 50% of output and a third of trade flows. after many years of stalemate, we are facing a possible turning point in our bilateral relations and the prospect of a possible broad-ranging agreement between europe and the united states could open up positive scenarios in transatlantic relations. of course there are the issues of tariff barriers and an agreement of this magnitude should also and above all have the ambition to eliminate the many trade and technical barriers which unfortunately still exist, as well as having to deal with important issues such as the protection of geographical indications, the opening up of the procurement market and the harmonization of rules of origin and of regulatory, sanitary and phytosanitary standards, which are still too different. but that does not diminish the importance of the acts we are about to undertake.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, since i think it is fully compatible with the report and does not raise any of the same issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs balzani on draft amending budget no 4/2012 to the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2012. the proposal aims to create four new budget lines, so as to reallocate resources, up to a maximum of 10% of the european regional development fund (erdf) and cohesion fund 2007-2013 allocations, to risk-sharing instruments. the rapporteur proposed to approve the council's position without amendments, but with particular attention to certain political considerations, such as that any transfer from cohesion policy to these financial instruments should be properly justified and carefully controlled, and that all relevant information should be transmitted to the european parliament in a timely manner.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 4/2012 to the general budget 2011 pursues a threefold objective, namely the creation of four budget lines to reallocate appropriations, up to a maximum of 10% of the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund 2007-2013, to risk-sharing instruments, the revision and budgeting of own resources forecasts, which involve a change in the distribution of their contributions to the eu budget by member states as own resources. whereas the above-mentioned draft is fully consistent with the amendments to the financial regulation agreed by the european parliament and the council; i am also hopeful that any shift from cohesion policy to the financial instruments to be defined will be duly justified and well controlled, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - having regard to the final annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2010, and to the annual report of the court of auditors, parliament approved the closure of the accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2010, considering the discharge in this respect as a valuable instrument of the european parliament, which requires a decision based on factual and substantive arguments; recalling in this context the rules in force, namely the staff regulations of officials and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european communities, the financial regulation applicable to the european communities, the regulation establishing the authority and the specific policies and procedures within efsa; i am firmly convinced that the necessary action must be taken in the event of non-compliance with the rules in force, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the pursuit of a high level of protection of human and animal health is one of efsa's key objectives. i welcome the efforts made by the food authority to resolve some of the criticisms that have been levelled at it: in particular the prevention and management of conflicts of interest. i acknowledge the commitment of efsa to ensure the integrity of its decision-making structure through ethics and transparency policies and actions to ensure compliance with the rules of the efsa code of conduct. i can only welcome the authority's decisions on its policy of independence and the actions it has taken to ensure the integrity of its members. the integrated approach to food safety adopted in the eu to combat foodborne zoonoses has been particularly significant. coordinated action has helped to tackle a serious and widespread public health threat, with over 320 000 confirmed cases in humans each year in the european union. for these reasons i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. − according to the statement of the european food safety authority, appropriate measures have been taken to improve financial management. the main task of the authority is to provide independent and transparent scientific advice on matters with a direct or indirect impact on food and feed safety. it is therefore necessary to apply measures to safeguard the credibility of the authority, which should improve the accessibility and transparency of risk assessment procedures.
in writing. − having regard to the final annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010, and to the report of the court of auditors, parliament gives discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. in this regard, considering the discharge as a valid instrument of the european parliament, which requires a decision based on factual and substantive arguments; firmly convinced that the necessary measures should be taken in the event of non-compliance with the rules in force; and considering that the discharge decision for the aem cannot be based on additional requirements, such as oecd guidelines, the application of which has not been formally requested by the community legislator, nor on specific provisions within the agency during the discharge procedure; i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. − the european medicines agency protects and promotes public and animal health by assessing and monitoring medicines for human and veterinary use. all medicinal products for human and animal use derived from biotechnologies and other advanced technological processes are to be approved by the centralised procedure. the same applies to all medicinal products for human use intended for the treatment of hiv/aids infections, cancer, diabetes or neurodegenerative diseases and to all 'orphan' medicinal products intended for the treatment of rare diseases. the agency also participates in referral procedures in relation to medicinal products approved or under examination by the member states. the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010 is hereby approved.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree that as regards materials in the 'qualified' category, these conditions should include the provision of information indicating whether or not the products have been genetically modified. such information should facilitate the application of the requirements of directive 2001/18/ec.
in writing. - having regard to the proposal from the commission to the european parliament and the council, after consulting the european economic and social committee, having regard to the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development and to parliament's request that the commission should re-submit its proposal, should the commission intend to substantially amend it or replace it with a new text, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i expressed my support for the text tabled by mr de castro, who proposed adopting the commission proposal on the inclusion of forest reproductive material in the 'qualified' category and the updating of the names of the authorities responsible for the recognition and control of production by a simplified procedure.
in writing. − the maastricht treaty established citizenship of the union with the aim of strengthening and enhancing european identity and enabling european citizens to participate actively in the process of community integration. when we speak of european citizenship, we are not talking about the legal status of the citizen, but about all aspects of life in a democratic society. the european union is the sum of all those countries that work together to improve the lives of their citizens. we have a duty to help them to exercise their rights fully: the right to education, to work, to freedom of enterprise, removing all the often bureaucratic obstacles that create barriers and impediments. and we must increasingly strengthen the participation of citizens in the european decision-making process, first by making the most of the right of petition and, above all, the right of popular legislative initiative introduced by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the overall objective of the commission's proposal for a 'european year of citizens' is to raise awareness of the rights attached to union citizenship, with a view to helping citizens to exercise fully their right to move freely within the territory of the member states. this proposal, in my view, gives new impetus to the debate on citizenship of the union and puts the effective and conscious exercise of this right at the centre of the political agenda. today there is still a lack of visibility of the notion of citizenship of the union and its concrete benefits for european citizens. a eurobarometer study published in 2011 shows that lack of information and awareness of their rights, as well as language barriers and the non-recognition of diplomas and qualifications, are the most common problems faced by citizens when they live, study or work in another eu country. these problems are aggravated in the current period of economic and financial crisis by the negative impact of the crisis, including the increase in unemployment and social tensions. in this context, i believe that the european year of citizens is a valuable opportunity to raise citizens' awareness of union citizenship and to stimulate their participation in democratic life.
in writing. - the reports of eurobarometer and other research institutes are full of bitter surprises on the subject of the idea of union among european citizens. it is clear that the economic crisis has put the fundamental reasons for being together and the benefits that derive from it under pressure, to the benefit of negative underlining, sometimes used for internal political-electoral polemics. the report makes a proposal which, at this historic moment, is particularly important. it is not a question of prefiguring themes in the dom porfirio, in a revised edition for the 21st century, but of spreading a minimum awareness of the values and positive effects of european citizenship, also on the practical level and the opportunities, in the face of a continuous emphasis on the inadequacies of the european construction, real or presumed. we cannot let our young people's european citizenship be reduced to passport lines at non-eu airports: the european union is a major player in the world economy, and its role in the world economy is increasingly being recognized. i therefore welcome the report, including the detailed recommendations on the organisation and coordination of activities for the european year of citizens.
in writing. - next year marks the 20th anniversary of the birth of european citizenship. it is essential to put union citizenship and participatory democracy at the centre of the political agenda. it is more necessary than ever now, in a period of deep crisis which is putting european households, businesses and citizens to the test. today's vote confirmed the agreement to proclaim 2013 the european year of citizens, with the aim of raising awareness of the rights linked to european citizenship. eu citizens are often unaware of their rights, including the right to move and live freely in another member state, the right to vote and stand as a candidate in european and local elections, and the right to petition the european parliament. i hope that these measures to inform and involve the public will be put into effect.
in writing. - i support with my vote in favour the proposal of the commission for civil liberties, justice and home affairs to establish 2013 as the 'year of european citizens'. i believe, in fact, that as laid down in the maastricht and lisbon treaties, it is of fundamental importance to make citizens of the european union aware of their rights and guarantees. the european year aims to strengthen the active civic and democratic participation of the citizens of the union. as vice-president of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i support this proposal because i hope that it will not only strengthen equality and solidarity between member states, but also strengthen gender equality between citizens and increase the participation of women in the economic, political and social life of the european union. i also consider this decision to be of great importance for an increase in the mobility of workers and the resulting employment rate.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal for a european year of citizens. it would be a great opportunity to raise awareness among the general public of the rights and responsibilities associated with union citizenship. it would also make an important contribution to raising citizens' awareness of their rights as citizens of the union.
in writing. − every citizen of a member state, in addition to national prerogatives, also enjoys a set of rights guaranteed by the eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights; however, many of them are unaware of the rights they enjoy as community citizens. considering that the overall aim of the proposed european year is to raise awareness of the rights attached to union citizenship in order to help citizens to exercise fully their right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, and wishing that the european year of citizenship should not once again be celebratory in nature but should pave the way for the new 'europe for citizens' programme 2014-2020 which supports initiatives to raise citizens' awareness of the european union, its history and its values, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the proclamation of 2013 as the european year of citizens is a clear attempt to raise awareness of the rights linked to european citizenship. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. in the meantime, citizens of the union have acquired a number of fundamental rights, such as the freedom to move and live in another member state, to vote actively and passively in european elections and to petition the european parliament. in a time of economic, political and social crisis, it is absolutely essential to put union citizenship and participatory democracy at the centre of the political agenda.
in writing. − 2013 will be the european year of the citizen. on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of european citizenship, established by the maastricht treaty, i consider this a new moment to increase the degree of involvement of the citizens of the individual member states in the process of european integration. i believe that too often the citizens of my constituency, like those of other member states, are not aware of the rights and opportunities which belonging to the community gives them. the european union has achieved many important objectives in the field of protection of rights, health and freedom of movement in the member states, but i believe that it is still possible to improve the impact of europe on the daily lives of citizens. that is why, in order to promote a new phase of european citizenship through the effective exercise of the rights related to it, i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to proclaim 2013 the european year of citizens.
in writing. − i voted against this report because, although i totally support the necessity to ask for a further investigation on the magnistsky case and to reiterate, once again, the rejection of any violation of human rights, i believe that an order of visa restriction for people not condemned by a tribunal would be a clear act of inconsistency with our own legal standards. in fact, if on the one hand we ask russia to respect the basic principle of human rights, on the other hand we are violating the principle of presumption of innocence. in addition, i deem that the quest of making family members accountable for actions they have not done contradicts one of the basic principles of the rule of law.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. we must by all means call on russia to conduct a credible and independent investigation into all aspects of this tragic case, and to bring all those responsible to justice. the magnitsky case is also an opportunity to urge the russian authorities to end endemic corruption and to reform the judicial system to bring it into line with international standards by creating an independent system.
in writing. − whereas the arrest, detention conditions and subsequent death in custody of sergei magnitsky represent a well-documented and concrete case of violation of fundamental human rights; bearing in mind that the post-mortem prosecution of sergei magnitsky is a violation of international and domestic law and a clear expression of the malfunctioning of the russian criminal justice system; i am therefore in favour of the proposal, since it is a very important one, and i hope that the council will take a consistent and proactive stance on other serious cases of human rights violations in russia, based on well-documented, convergent and independent sources and convincing evidence, and introduce similar restrictive measures against those responsible.
in writing. − the russian federation, as a member of the council of europe and the osce, has committed itself to full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law, and on several occasions the european union has additionally offered its assistance and expertise to help the country modernise and respect its constitutional and legal order. despite the 2011 findings of the human rights council's investigation of the russian president regarding the illegality of sergei magnitsky's arrest and detention and the fact that he was denied access to justice, the investigations are stalled and the officers involved have been exonerated and even given the case posthumously. by these acts the authorities demonstrate the political character of the prosecution of sergei magnitsky. the vote therefore calls for common visa restrictions to be applied to the russian officials involved in the case.
in writing. − in recent years, air traffic has rapidly reached its maximum capacity and, with reasonable certainty, the problem will continue to worsen over time. the basic processes of air traffic control have changed little since world war ii: the controllers continue to communicate instructions to the pilots by voice radio communication. the implementation of the single european sky legislation, by offering the possibility of a shift to a more modern industry, would enable air traffic controllers to contribute to a more flexible, robust and innovative sector. although much progress has been made in making the ess legislation operational, i am concerned about the timing of its implementation. the benefits of full and timely implementation of the ess are not negligible: a study on its macroeconomic impact shows a cumulative effect on the union's gdp of eur 419 billion, the creation of as many as 328 000 jobs and a reduction in co2 emissions of 50 million tonnes. the urgency of making european airspace as efficient as possible is therefore clear. i share the rapporteur's request that the european commission report to parliament on progress in implementing the ess legislation by a predetermined date.
in writing. − despite the fallout from the economic crisis, the growth trend in air transport demand also remained positive at european level, with rates of 9.3% in 2011 to 4% for 2012, just below the 5% average gradient identified by iata as a baseline. the fact remains that, including the asia-pacific economies, the increase in global demand exceeds 6% in the passenger sector and 5% in logistics. however, the impact of the crisis has not been negligible, as indicated by the association of european airlines, whose secretary ulriche schulte-strathaus predicted in a recent interview a loss of over two billion for the entire sector. this combination of rising demand and shrinking operating margins makes the implementation of the single sky legislation imperative, especially as corrections and restructuring (e.g. on the trends in supply towards elfa carriers) are indispensable. it is incredible, for example, that european carriers still have to operate on a pattern essentially of pre-union national economies. i therefore support the report with a favourable vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the foster report because it provides us with a timely analysis of the limits of a policy which was launched ten years ago but which, as we must now see, is not working. the single european sky, which was the aim when the legislation was drawn up, and which envisaged air traffic with greater capacity and lower costs in both economic and environmental terms, has not yet been achieved. i therefore share the rapporteur's approach, which identifies the need for the european commission to intervene, giving precise reasons for the limitations in place. among the various elements that are functional to the realization of the one sky, we note: the performance system, functional airspace blocks (fabs), the role of the network operator and, above all, the implementation of the sesar programme, the technological pillar of the single sky, which will end its research phase in 2015 and which will have to be introduced on the market in ground and on-board components over the next 15 years, also with the support of european funding, in order to contribute to increasing the benefits for passengers (above all, reducing waiting times and delays) and to reducing co2 emissions and costs related to flight operations.
in writing. - in the belief that we must prevent any further delay in achieving the objectives set by the single european sky project, i express my support for this report. it is very clear what benefits the implementation of this project would bring to the union's gdp, to the competitiveness of european industry and to job creation. fundamental to ending the current malfunctioning of airspace and maintaining the eu's leadership in research and innovation, the implementation of the single european sky would nevertheless fully respect the sovereignty of member states with regard to military aircraft or other state aircraft. for all these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. − the most effective way to establish the single european sky is to follow a top-down approach and therefore to ask the commission to propose measures to eliminate the effects of the delay in the implementation of functional airspace blocks and to move quickly from the bottom-up approach to the opposite.
in writing. - i would like to express my support for the rapid implementation of the single european sky. air traffic is growing by leaps and bounds, and so are air fares, to the detriment of passengers, safety and efficiency. today, the highways of the sky are not straight because of the fragmentation of airspace, which causes longer travel times, resulting in higher co2 emissions and more expensive airfares. the national air traffic control areas in europe urgently need to be unified precisely to avoid congestion, increase safety, reduce flight times, delays and fares. moreover, the full and timely implementation of air traffic management research technology would lead to the creation of as many as 328 000 new jobs.
in writing. − although many positive steps have already been taken in the right direction, much remains to be done and 2012 is seen as a pivotal year for the implementation of the ess. considering that air traffic is rapidly reaching its maximum capacity and that the problem continues to worsen over time, it is necessary to implement the ses legislation effectively in order to avoid possible safety or operational risks due to increasingly heavy traffic flows and outdated technologies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs foster on her work. in adopting this text, parliament, having regard to the report of the committee on transport and tourism and the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, has shown its firm determination to implement a genuine single european sky as soon as possible. the aim is to make the most efficient use of airspace and the technology of our time for traffic management, and above all to ensure that the consumer is not harmed in terms of time and money. it should also be noted that the commission considers that full and timely implementation of air traffic management technologies would bring major benefits in terms of employment, the environment and timing of flights. the commission was therefore invited to adopt a new approach which would include both sanctions and, where necessary, eu funding.
in writing. − the national air traffic control areas in europe need to be unified immediately: this is the only way to avoid congestion, increase safety and reduce flight times, delays and fares. the european commission must act immediately to ensure that national governments fulfil their obligations and seize the opportunity to create 328 000 jobs through the proper use of air traffic management research technology alone.
in writing. − the european union is the most congested area by air travel, both because of its economic importance and because of the number of states, even small ones, that make up the union. the single european sky project, whose objectives were set in 2004, was to give the aviation decision-making powers normally held by the member states within the community. the aim was to reduce the fragmentation of airspace caused by being regulated on the basis of national borders rather than traffic requirements. the forecast that such a choice would be made by 2012 could unfortunately be optimistic and the risk of further delays in achieving the set objectives cannot be excluded. it should be remembered that such a choice of european airspace management would fully respect the sovereignty and prerogatives of the states. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i believe that we need to think about improving the efficiency of airspace by applying the latest traffic management technologies to avoid the consumer having to pay twice: in time and money. increasing traffic flows bring with them a considerable increase in operational risks, which is why action must be taken quickly. the 'single european sky' is a set of measures covering both the civil and military sectors and covering regulation, the economy, security, the environment, technology and institutions. i am voting in favour of helping to change an air traffic management organisation that has remained unchanged for decades, hoping to meet future air safety needs.
in writing. - mrs foster's report examines the limits of the policy launched ten years ago in this area, calling for greater political input from the member states and stressing that the benefits of full and timely implementation of the 'single european sky' are too great to be ignored. the completion of this programme will lead to significant economic, safety and environmental savings, creating a more sustainable aviation sector and a more effective european-wide traffic management system.
in writing. - the disparity in the levels of application of the legislation, the emergence of new trends in supply, the intermodality which characterises certain areas of the union by its own particular features, are three elements which are given careful consideration in the report, which deserves a favourable vote. in respect of and in realistic consideration of the different situations between countries, it is necessary to complete a rationalization operation, in the sign of a clear and precise knowledge of a minimum and uniform level of passenger rights within the eu. i particularly welcome the attention paid to the e-commerce market, which is growing rapidly in the tourism sector according to the estimates of the italian trade confederation and which calls for greater discipline in respect of travellers' rights, especially with regard to withdrawals, refunds and price composition. in this connection, i particularly welcome the comments and forecasts in paragraphs 41, 48, 49 and 54 on the european declaration of 'exceptional circumstances' exempting travellers from obligations, in the light of the case-law on the matter which has developed in the meantime. the recommendations on incentives for new ticketing technologies, intermodality and interoperability of networks and carriers, as well as for good practice laboratory areas with positive effects on economies and for environmental effects are also particularly welcome.
in writing. the report by mr bach deals with one of the points which i think should be the focus of our interest as members of the committee on transport: the rights of passengers. the report draws our attention to the needs of our citizens who move for work, family or tourism. the commission's communication lists rights for all modes of transport to ensure a minimum level of protection for travellers in the eu. i believe that the rights to access, proper information and assistance which the report emphasizes must always be guaranteed. in particular, i welcome the reference to non-discrimination for disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility, passengers travelling with children and travellers in the event of disruption of services.
in writing. - i agree with the suggestion to the commission that it should include in its list of passenger rights the right to a minimum level of quality of service provided by carriers and that this level should be defined in a clear way. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i vote in favour of mr bach's report on passenger rights in all modes of transport. in the single market, which we have been living in for 20 years now, travel is increasingly important for the development of the economy and for the personal fulfilment of citizens. it is important that this is not an obstacle course, but a normal daily activity. we must therefore also promote the use of new technologies for all modes of transport, for example for the issuing of boarding passes which can be stored, validated and displayed by electronic means.
in writing. − for intermodal travel to be successful and become a regular reality in the eu internal market, a common basis of rights covering all modes of transport and a minimum level of service quality are needed, as well as a convergence approach of all carriers and enforcement bodies. the commission's efforts to develop a multimodal european travel planning system, which would allow travellers to plan their journey throughout europe using a variety of means of transport, have so far not produced positive results, and in the hope that the member states will contribute, in cooperation with the commission, to the removal of the obstacles which prevent companies from developing such a system, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - despite some criticisms such as the assumption of a common frame of reference for all transport systems and the adoption of new technologies as specific applications for smartphones, my vote is in favour as i believe it is essential to protect passenger rights. greater price transparency, a serious handling of complaints, more rights rather than prohibitions are all very useful objectives. i am pleased that better conditions of care for disabled people have been included. a similar proposal had been made by the undersigned, as rapporteur in envi, in the european disability strategy. it is no longer acceptable that disabled people should not be able to find suitable transport and it is often not even possible to know whether the vehicle for which the ticket is purchased has dedicated services.
in writing. − the european union guarantees a minimum level of protection for travellers. the vote also stressed the crucial importance of improving the quality of services for disabled people, including unhindered access to airport infrastructure, the development of uniform and coordinated information procedures, adequate staff training and clarification of liability issues in the event of damage or loss of mobility equipment. as regards rail transport, considerable improvements have been made in recent years in terms of the protection of passengers and their baggage in the event of delays and accidents, but there is still room for improvement in services. depending on the mode of transport, passengers' rights differ in scope and possible exceptions, in particular as regards the definition of delays, the level of assistance and support provided during the waiting time until recourse to re-protection, the amount of compensation, the conditions under which compensation is no longer payable, the time taken to respond to complaints. passenger rights are based on the principle of compliance with the terms of the transport contract.
in writing. − the commission's list of rights for all modes of transport, which guarantees a minimum level of protection for travellers in the eu, is of great value. the eu legislation has been formulated in accordance with the principle of proportionality and with the necessary distinctions, taking into account the diversity of each mode and the relevant markets. from the individual provisions it is possible to derive a common basis for all passenger rights. unfortunately, the implementation of the laws is incomplete and uneven both on the part of the carriers and on the part of the national authorities: in addition, passengers are given incomplete information about their rights, are dissatisfied with the circumstances and costs of exercising those rights, and the procedures are too complex. it is therefore necessary to clearly set out the conditions for the implementation of a single regulation on passenger rights in all modes of transport, with particular attention to the clarity and accessibility of information.
in writing. - having regard to the general budget of the european union, and bearing in mind that 'citizens have the right to know how taxpayers' money is spent and how political bodies manage the powers conferred on them', parliament rejects the discharge to the secretary-general of the council for the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2010. recalling that, in accordance with article 335 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, 'the union shall be represented by each of the institutions, in accordance with their administrative autonomy, in matters relating to the functioning of the respective institution', and stressing that effective control of the implementation of the budget is a great responsibility and that its achievement depends entirely on unhindered interinstitutional cooperation between the council and parliament, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - having regard to the final annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2010 and the related report of the court of auditors, parliament rejects the discharge to the director of the european environment agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. convinced that appropriate action should be taken where there are instances of non-compliance with the rules in force and believing that in such cases the agency should draw up an action plan to remedy the deficiencies, ideally under the control of the european parliament as regards its implementation, and that the european parliament itself or the european legislator should address such problems by amending existing rules and regulations to eliminate any deficiencies, i vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − having regard to the proposal for the appointment of leonard orban as a member of the court of auditors, having assessed his cv and his questionnaire replies, and having regard to the fact that the committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in relation to the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and held a hearing with the candidate at its meeting on 26 september 2012, i vote against the proposal.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the globalisation of world markets. this fund is for the benefit of the workers and does not act for the benefit of the company which made the redundancies. as regards the mobilisation of the fund for the case in question, i voted in favour because there are no criticisms and the application meets the eligibility criteria. ireland requested assistance for 592 redundancies, of which 432 were eligible for assistance, at talk talk broadband services (ireland).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for ireland. the application to mobilise the egf was lodged in respect of 592 redundancies, 432 of which were covered by the aid, in the undertaking talk talk, active in the broadband services sector. today's vote has cleared the way for the mobilisation of eur 2 696 382. i would like to conclude by saying that through this important instrument we are now able to give some concrete answers and help workers who are unemployed because of globalisation and the economic crisis, not only by trying to repair the disadvantages they have suffered but also by reintegrating them into the world of work.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, on 27 july 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for ireland, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade flows and globalisation. since the commission has concluded that the application meets the conditions for mobilising the egf as laid down in article 2 (a) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 and was submitted within the 10-week period laid down in article 5 of that regulation, and stressing the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the egf, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i think this is a useful tool to help the workers, especially young people, in the call centre of the british company talk talk who have lost their jobs in ireland. the activation of the european globalisation adjustment fund will enable us to provide financial support to reintegrate into the labour market 432 of the 592 people who were made redundant following the closure of call centre services in ireland and their relocation to india, the philippines and south africa. i believe action is needed because, through eu funds, workers will have access to study and training courses, scholarships, mentoring, and economic and professional support. for the reasons stated above, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the globalisation of world markets. as regards the mobilisation of the fund for the case in question, i voted in favour because there are no criticisms and the application meets the eligibility criteria. sweden has requested assistance for 987 redundancies in the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca: in sweden the firms concerned are located in four municipalities but the redundancies were mainly in lund; the closure of the site represents a significant loss for the city, the entire swedish pharmaceutical industry and the regional labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for sweden. in a time of economic crisis such as the one we are in now, the egf can be a valuable instrument of help, not only for workers in difficulty. today's vote was on a request for about 700 redundancies at the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca. the total amount mobilised is eur 4 325 854.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, on 16 july 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden in order to support reintegration into the labour market of redundant workers as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. since the commission considers that the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, and since the egf was set up as a specific and distinct instrument with its own objectives and deadlines, and that a specific allocation is therefore justified to avoid transferring funds from other lines, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i welcome the timely assistance to the 700 workers made redundant by the activation of the fund for the swedish pharmaceutical company astrazeneca. given the significant changes the pharmaceutical industry is facing in order to remain competitive in a difficult environment, i am confident that the globalisation fund in europe would help to ease the transition of workers to new jobs. this package will enable workers to be offered vocational guidance, training, retraining and self-employment support. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the globalisation of world markets. the commission has already given a favourable opinion, and the parliament's passage constitutes the approval of the budgetary authority. as regards the mobilisation of the fund for the case in question, i voted in favour because there are no criticisms and the application meets the eligibility criteria. spain requested assistance for 878 redundancies, of which 450 were recipients of egf assistance, following redundancies in 35 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 25 ('manufacture of metal products other than machinery and equipment') in the nuts ii region of galicia (es11) in spain.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide concrete support to workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, in order to reintegrate them into the labour market. today we approved a request to mobilise the egf in respect of 878 redundancies in 35 shipyards in the galician region of spain, amounting to eur 4 325 854.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, on 9 august 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in global trade flows due to globalisation. considering that, according to the commission's assessment, the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, and stressing the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i welcome the mobilisation of the fund in favour of the spanish firm, given that the particular moment of economic and financial crisis is forcing many firms to lay off an increasing number of workers. the provision of this instrument is intended to avoid a worsening of the already complex employment situation in galicia. in particular, the shipping industry has seen a 43% reduction in new orders, and given the conditions of the territory, i think it is necessary to use the fund to help reintegrate the workers who have been made redundant. i think, therefore, that these efforts are necessary. admitting the firm to the fund means giving rapid and effective support to local labour markets. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i also express a favourable opinion on this application to mobilise the egf, as it is not critical and meets the eligibility criteria. this application, which is the eighth under the 2012 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf for a total amount of eur 2 898 594 for the netherlands during the nine-month reference period from 1 february to 1 november 2011. i believe that this mobilization can support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs due to the processes of globalization of world markets: the netherlands requested assistance in relation to 516 redundancies, 435 of which were eligible for assistance, in 54 enterprises operating in nace rev. 2 division 41 ('building') in the nuts ii region gelderland (nl22).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) requested by mr daerden's report. today's vote concerned a request for mobilisation of 516 redundancies, 435 of which were eligible for assistance, relating to 54 building companies operating in gelderland, a province in the netherlands, for which the commission proposed to allocate eur 2 898 594. i would also like to stress, more generally, the important role of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has proved to be a useful and effective resource in recent years in the fight against unemployment as a consequence of globalisation and the economic crisis.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, on 16 july 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. considering that, according to the commission's assessment, the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, and stressing the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the construction sector in gelderland has been particularly hard hit by the recession and those who were employed in the sector are struggling to find new jobs. the netherlands requested assistance from the egf following the redundancies of 516 people from 54 small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector located in gelderland, the largest province in the country, with about two million inhabitants and where the sector is a major employer. through this support we will be able to provide help to people who have been made redundant and support a flexpool programme which links jobseekers with employers and which may suggest temporary assignments so that they can gain experience in a new profession. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is an instrument to support the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the globalisation of world markets. the commission has already given a favourable opinion, and the parliament's passage constitutes the approval of the budgetary authority. as regards the mobilisation of the fund for the case in question, i voted in favour because there are no criticisms and the application meets the eligibility criteria. this application, the ninth under the 2012 budget, concerns the mobilisation of the egf in the amount of eur 1 494 008 for the netherlands. it concerns targeted support for 616 redundancies in the netherlands at zalco aluminium zeeland company nv and two suppliers (ecl services netherlands bv and start).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for zalco zeeland. this is the ninth proposal to mobilise fund aid for 2012 and concerns the training of 616 workers, carried out following the bankruptcy of the aluminium processing company zalco zeeland. the total amount of funding was eur 1 494 008.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, on 9 august 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the vocational reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. considering that, according to the commission's assessment, the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, and stressing the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. the netherlands has requested egf support for 616 redundant workers. i believe that a package of aid is needed to help reintegrate into the labour market those workers from the eu countries who have lost their jobs as a result of the changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. it is our clear responsibility not to jeopardize the future of workers by preventing unemployment from affecting the balance of local communities. in view of the crisis situation in the sector concerned, i requested that the fund be granted in order to improve the economic growth prospects of the region hosting zalco alluminium. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - after the commission's approval of the mobilisation of the fund, it is now for parliament to express its views as the budgetary authority. as regards the mobilisation of the egf/2010/015 fr/peugeot application submitted by france, i voted in favour of the application as it does not present any critical deficiencies and the application complies with the eligibility criteria set out. france requested assistance for 2 089 redundancies, all of which were eligible for assistance from the fund, and 649 of these redundancies took place in two subsidiaries of the psa peugeot citroën group (peugeot citroën automobiles and sevelnord) during the reference period from 1 november 2009 to 28 february 2010.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for france because i consider this instrument to be a valuable resource for supporting workers in difficulty because of the economic crisis. since 2006, the european globalisation adjustment fund has provided concrete support for european workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of their businesses or, following the derogation introduced in 2009, also as a result of the economic crisis, with a view to their reintegration into the labour market. the report to be voted on today concerns a request for support for 2089 redundancies, all of which were granted assistance, in the peugeot citroen company for a period of four months (1 november 2009 - 28 february 2010). the total amount of funding was eur 11 949 666.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, on 21 august 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade due to globalisation. considering that, according to the commission's assessment, the application meets the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation, and stressing the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure, in compliance with the interinstitutional agreement, for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the european union needs to help over 2,000 unemployed peugeot citroen workers to re-enter the labour market with a grant of some eur 11.9 million. in view of recent data which tell us of the worrying reduction in vehicle production in europe with the consequent dismissal of many workers in the automobile sector, i believe that the company in question should be admitted to the fund. we should be even more encouraged by the fact that further redundancies are expected at peugeot as the crisis continues to have a strong impact on the demand side. the aid package will affect 2,089 workers at the french car manufacturer who have been made redundant. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - after the commission's approval of the mobilisation of the fund, parliament now has to take the initiative in its capacity as budgetary authority. as regards the mobilisation of the egf/2012/003/dk/vestas application submitted by denmark, i voted in favour of it as it is free from any critical deficiencies and meets the eligibility criteria set out. denmark requested assistance for 720 redundancies, all of which were eligible for assistance, in the vestas group in denmark, which is active in the manufacture of wind turbines.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, on 13 september 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark, in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. considering that the danish authorities claim that the eu wind turbine manufacturing industry, which is included in nace rev. 2 division 28 ('manufacture of machinery and equipment'), has been severely affected by changes in world trade flows, in particular by a significant reduction in the eu market share, and stressing the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the fund, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the strong structural changes in the wind turbine market, with production moving to asia and america, have led the danish vestas group to make a number of redundancies. i think that denmark's request for access to aid for a company which has made a positive contribution to the supply of industrial jobs should be welcomed. the dismissals concerned highly qualified experts and technicians, which is why i feel that access to the aid package is necessary to recognise the skills and abilities acquired during the company's career. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade, on 13 september 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of germany in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market.
in writing. germany has requested assistance for redundant workers at the printing plant manroland ag. the break-up of a large company such as manroland ag has led to a scenario characterized by a very high number of redundancies and a loss of highly qualified skills within the areas concerned. the european globalisation adjustment fund has proved to be an effective tool for those who have lost their jobs. the resources allocated should be used to co-finance active labour market policy measures such as intensive and personalised assistance in job search, vocational training, upgrading and re-skilling, temporary incentives and allowances. i believe that the company should be eligible for the egf in order to ensure, in line with the fund's characteristics, that the skills and competencies acquired during the course of its professional career are not wasted. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the fjellner report, which aims to change the current community regime for the control of exports and transit of dual-use goods, both civil and military, from the ordinary legislative procedure to the more streamlined procedure of delegated acts. the movement of dual-use items is de facto governed by decisions taken by international bodies according to un rules, which the eu and its member states must follow by updating a list of such items on a regular basis. i believe that the updating procedure adopted so far is too complex and too long in relation to the needs of our market, since any late amendment of the list could seriously damage european competitiveness; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers.
in writing. - rapid technological change requires frequent revision of the lists of dual-use items: the use of delegated acts, in such a technical area and where decisions are already taken within international regimes, allows, in my view, to avoid overly complex legislative procedures which damage the competitiveness of european exporters, and instead favours a rapid and regular update of the control lists. i also consider that the delegated acts do provide for parliament and the member states to monitor the european commission's initiatives and for the possibility of intervention, so i voted in favour.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i support the rapporteur's call on the commission to step up its efforts to develop electronic management systems for the control of dual-use goods and european union training programmes on export controls, ensuring that small and mediumsized enterprises remain competitive inside and outside the internal market.
in writing. − considering that the export control regime for dual-use goods and technologies aims to limit the risk of proliferation and military use, without hampering legitimate trade, it is essential to strike the right balance between these two aspects. in addition, rapid technological developments require regular and timely updating of international dual-use control lists; it is therefore necessary to simplify and speed up the procedures in place in order to avoid the emergence of safety concerns in the event of delays in the implementation of decisions on the strengthening of controls, and to adapt quickly to changing external circumstances, both to counter emerging proliferation threats and to avoid putting european industry at a competitive disadvantage. with these objectives in mind, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - general export authorisations have proved to be very effective instruments in facilitating the export of certain products to certain destinations with lower risks. i believe that amending the community regime for the control of exports of dual-use items is a function of making such controls as effective, efficient and timely as possible. in my view, control of trade in certain products effectively helps to limit the risks of proliferation and at the same time ensures that legitimate trade is not impeded. nowadays, technological progress makes it necessary to update the list of controlled products regularly. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the current eu general export authorisations can be rapidly amended with regard to their destination and the scope of products, so that the eu export control system can adequately reflect new developments at global level. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 428/2009 regulates the export of products which, although of a civilian nature, may be used for military purposes. annex i to that regulation contains the list of controlled products which may not leave the customs territory of the european union without an export authorisation. the export control regime for dual-use goods and technology is intended to limit the risk of proliferation and military use, without impeding legitimate trade. it is therefore essential to strike the right balance between the two by simplifying the procedures of the eu's export control regime. the objective of the union export control system is to ensure non-proliferation without restricting competition and competitiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is primarily intended to ensure greater security and stronger respect of safety regulations, especially in the case of crews made up of individuals trained in different countries who operate in the same ship. at the same time, the report is aimed at fostering the competitiveness of eu fleets, which is crucial during this time of economic crisis.
in writing. the report presents a range of amendments to the european directive, aimed at recognising and safeguarding the professionalism of our seafarers. the whole sector is under particular strain today, due to a combination of factors ranging from the economic crisis, new regulatory regimes, international political instability and environmental emergencies. any contribution to the protection of seafarers is certainly timely and appropriate at this time. i would like to vote in favour, with particular applause for the provisions on fraud prevention, security training and certification of specific advanced skills, on a data collection and management system which ensures completeness and operationality, while safeguarding the right to privacy of the data subjects. a proper analysis of information on the sector will help not only the legislator but also private citizens who will be better able to orient themselves, considering opportunities and dynamics of the sector. i think it is worth noting the consideration, also put forward in amendments, that the minimum rest regime for the prevention of fatigue should be balanced by a reasonable system of derogations linked to specific types of activity.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mr simpson. adequate and up-to-date training of crews on board ships is a fundamental requirement for ensuring safety in the sector. it is therefore necessary that such training should meet international standards and achieve a uniform character in order to overcome the problems which may arise from the frequent presence on board the same ship of workers from different countries, who are therefore trained under different training systems. i also believe that all the measures which would make it possible to increase safety in this area are essential. i am referring to the adoption of other more stringent provisions on the issue of certificates of competence, physical fitness and service, better working conditions, control of alcohol abuse. it is also important to aim for greater involvement of the commission through greater transparency and easier access to data in order to have a more accurate picture of the employment situation in this area.
in writing. - i believe that this proposal deserves support in many respects. firstly, it is necessary to avoid conflicts between international, community and member state law, following the amendments to the international convention on the standards of training of seafarers. secondly, it focuses on the fundamental aspects of safety and the procedure for the recognition of training systems of third countries by emsa. finally, i think that the amendments to the text are broadly acceptable, especially as regards the revival of the competitiveness of our fleets, which is also seen as a means of creating jobs in a period of economic and employment crisis such as the present one. for all these reasons, my vote was in favour.
in writing. − the upgrading of seafarers' training should cover all specialisations, including crew and officers on board, and include basic theoretical and practical training focused on the protection of human life at sea. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of stricter rules on the training of seafarers, with a view to ensuring greater safety for seafarers and any passengers they may carry. better technical and physical preparation, and also preparedness for piracy and armed assaults, can only make sea travel safer. the amendments will also bring european standards in line with international standards approved by the international maritime organisation.
in writing. − i am voting in favour of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2008/106/ec on the minimum training requirements for seafarers. the training of seafarers is an essential element of maritime safety and therefore i find it of the utmost importance that crews trained in different countries and systems have the necessary skills to perform their duties safely. this proposal aims to bring union legislation on the training and certification of seafarers into line with existing international standards by improving the wording of the legislative text in terms of clarity. for these reasons, i consider the proposal to be an essential element in avoiding conflicts between the obligations at international level and those at eu level assumed by the member states.
in writing. − whereas it is of the utmost importance that crews trained in different countries and systems, operating on the same ship, have the necessary skills to perform their duties safely, therefore training plays an important role in maritime safety. taking into account that the training and certification of seafarers is governed by the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers ('the stcw convention'), adopted in 1978, substantially amended in 1995 and finally in 2010 by the manila convention, it is now necessary to transpose the amendments to the stcw convention already approved by the member states meeting within the international maritime organisation (imo) in order to bring european legislation into line with the amended stcw convention. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the imo (international maritime organisation) has recently updated standards for the training, certification and safety of seafarers to prevent fraud in certifications, increase medical requirements and improve safety training, including preparedness for piracy and armed assault. the rapporteur agrees that the commission proposal is essentially concerned with transposing the amendments to the stcw convention (international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers) already approved by the member states meeting in the imo in order to bring european legislation into line with the amended stcw convention. the report also confirms the european rules on minimum rest periods, which are stricter than international ones, and introduces the possibility for the european commission to collect data on crews operating in community waters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because i believe that stricter rules are needed to protect the safety of personnel working on board vessels, by aligning european standards with those approved by the international maritime organisation. upgrading standards for training and safety of seafarers, including by increasing medical requirements and improving training in the event of piracy and armed assault, is now a priority that we can no longer ignore.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2008/106/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum training requirements for seafarers. the proposed amendments are designed to ensure: stricter rules on the issuing and recognition of certificates of seafarer's training issued by states parties to the convention, new criteria for determining the physical fitness of crew members and greater rigor in the prevention of fraudulent practices. in addition to these updates, the ec proposal also focuses on the procedure for the recognition of third countries' training systems by the european maritime safety agency (emsa), extending from 3 to 18 months the timeframe within which emsa carries out the necessary procedures to verify that a given third country has effectively integrated into its practices the provisions of the convention.
in writing. − it is of the utmost importance that crews trained in different countries and systems, operating on the same ship, have the necessary skills to perform their duties safely. training plays an important role in maritime safety. the vote will seek to push for stricter provisions on training and assessment, the issuing of certificates of competence and the prevention of fraud; more up-to-date rules on physical fitness, fitness for duty and alcohol abuse; new requirements for certification of seafarers' experts, electro-technical officers and safety training for all seafarers; updated requirements for personnel on board certain types of vessels; clarification and simplification of the definition of 'certificate'.
in writing. − the importance of maritime training activities and the homogenisation of the training of crews from different countries working together is high. the aim is to ensure the safety of shipping operations at sea and in ports. the training and certification of seafarers is governed by the stcw convention, which was adopted by the imo conference in 1978 and entered into force in 1984. the stcw convention was first incorporated into union law by directive 94/58/ec of 22 november 1994. in 2010, a conference of the parties to the stcw convention, held in manila, initiated a comprehensive review introducing important amendments to the stcw convention ('manila amendments'), which entered into force on 1 january 2012. in order to avoid a conflict between the eu's commitments and the international commitments undertaken by the member states, it is necessary that the union's legislation on the training and certification of seafarers continue to be in line with international standards. it is therefore essential to transpose the manila amendments into eu law.
in writing. − i am strongly against this agreement because i believe, as a matter of principle, that the eu should not upgrade any kind of relation with a state that violates international law and human rights in occupied territories. from my point of view, with the approval of this protocol we lost the opportunity to send a strong message to israel and to urge this country to take a step toward the two-state solution. on the contrary, the consent to the agreement sent to israel the message that there are no real consequences for its continued violations of international law. i also think that it has been totally unfair from the eu side to approve a deal giving beneficial access to israeli pharmaceutical products at a time when israel is blocking such products from entering gaza. for all these reasons, we have shown, once again, the existence of double standards in the european foreign policy.
in writing. - i support the report which proposes to add to the euro-mediterranean agreement already in force with israel the protocol on the conformity assessment and acceptance of israeli industrial products. the protocol will facilitate access for products from both parties and israel will fully implement community legislation, allowing european exporters to test and certify their production according to rules already standard for them, without having to incur additional costs to meet other assessment requirements to gain access to the israeli market.
in writing. − considering that israel currently applies all agreements concluded with the european union to 'the entire territory of the state of israel', as defined in israeli national law, and that the eu does not recognise either the application of these agreements by israel in its occupied territories or any legislation promoting the annexation and colonization of these territories, in this context, the terms of the proposed text could allow israel to implement the protocol on the basis of its national law. if that were to happen, the european union would not be applying community law and would not be fulfilling its obligations under international law. i would like to stress that the eu must not depart from the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, which imposes an explicit obligation to ensure coherence between the various areas of foreign policy and other policies, in the conduct of its foreign policy. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products. the entry into force of this agreement will extend some of the benefits of the internal market to sectors already aligned and will thus facilitate market access by removing technical barriers to trade in industrial products. the protocol will allow community exporters, if they so wish, to test and certify their industrial products against the same requirements, giving them, in practice, the possibility of accessing the israeli market without having to meet any further conformity assessment requirements.
in writing. the acaa is a technical agreement which aims to facilitate market access by removing technical barriers to trade in industrial products. in this case, the eu-israel acaa protocol will cover good manufacturing practice for pharmaceutical products only. i am in favour of negotiating the agreement, which is a part of the euromed process and whose purpose is to complete and strengthen the network of free trade agreements with all the countries of the region. my vote in favour is based on a view of the agreement not as an upgrade of the political relations between the eu and israel but as a technical agreement provided for in an already shared document (the eu-israel action plan), which falls within the scope of the implementation of the association agreement and was approved by the council in 2010. the conclusion of the agreement must therefore be based on a technical rather than a political approach, which would facilitate mutual access to the pharmaceutical market, since commercial advantages are expected for both parties.
in writing. − i support this report because i value its intention to support the future of the eu development policy. with its 'agenda for change’, the commission intends to place particular emphasis on the quality of the assistance. this principle is of utmost importance. in particular, i believe that the agenda for change should bring about a real policy shift, by focusing on a rights-based approach, i.e. fulfilling individual and collective rights of the population in developing countries. on the use of budget support, i agree with the idea of combining grants and loans, and of promoting the private sector in order to contribute to lifting the citizens of developing countries out of poverty and aid dependence. moreover, considering that effective land rights systems in developing countries are essential for eradicating poverty and creating a fair and inclusive society, one of the objectives of the agenda for change should focus on making sure that secure land rights systems are in place in developing countries and that they are monitored accordingly.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the goerens report; the eu's poverty reduction policy must be reversed from the direction it is currently taking. the changes to be made to this policy are important: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, the council's attention must be drawn back to development issues, as in recent meetings there has been a marked lack of interest on the part of the member states: maximum three or four ministers present.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the future of the european union's development policy, as i agree with all the points made in it. as clearly stated in the treaty of lisbon, poverty reduction is the main objective of the union's development policy. this objective can be pursued through development cooperation, which consists in promoting human growth in all its dimensions, including cultural growth. the commission has among its objectives to promote sustainable development, considering that from a financial, regulatory, administrative and social point of view, the creation of micro-enterprises and smes in developing countries is essential to create favourable business environments in order to stimulate entrepreneurship and private sector development. the european union's task is therefore to eliminate excessive regulatory burdens on smes and microenterprises and in this context to further encourage and strengthen access to microcredit and microfinance. i congratulate mr charles goerens on his excellent work, his foresight and the quality of his report.
in writing. − from a financial, regulatory, administrative and social point of view, the creation of micro-enterprises and smes in developing countries, in order to stimulate entrepreneurship and private sector development, is essential to create favourable business environments in developing countries. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − considering that since the adoption of the millennium development goals in 2000, some important changes, already noticeable at the time, have been accentuated, both on the economic level, where the surprising development of china, india and brazil tends to shift the economic centre of gravity of countries with mature economies towards emerging countries, and on the demographic level, where our planet, which has gone from 6 to 7 billion human beings in less than 10 years, will exceed 9 billion in 2030, it is necessary to strengthen eu cooperation with developing countries. for the success of eu development policy, particular attention needs to be paid to new actors, in particular china and india, with regard to their impact on the situation of the poor in the global south. with these objectives in mind, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − since the adoption of the millennium development goals in 2000, some important changes, already perceptible at that time, have become more pronounced. on the economic front, the astonishing development of china, india and brazil tends to shift the economic centre of gravity from the countries with mature economies to the emerging countries. yet, despite their impressive economic growth, these countries still fail to control poverty effectively. globalisation, altered by more liberalised world trade and becoming a powerful source of wealth creation, is indeed at the origin of a very curious phenomenon: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of women in the community. with this vote, the european union assumes a specific responsibility in the international donor community. the union should therefore surround itself with the best advisers on how to deal with the situation on the ground and equip itself with the capacity for strategic reflection.
in writing. − the achievement of the millennium development goals by 2015 remains very difficult. however, since the adoption of these objectives in 2000, some important changes have been accentuated. the european approach to development cooperation is undergoing major changes, but it maintains approaches and principles that have proved effective in the past. the quality of aid and the increasingly careful european selectivity in the choice of partner countries are also key objectives. the european union is the first donor but aims to be the best, and to do so it will have to excel in three areas: governance, sustainable and inclusive economic growth and the development of social protection systems in developing countries.
in writing. − european smes are often not informed about the business support services provided by the european union and, as a result, do not use the resources allocated to them and miss out on valuable growth opportunities. i therefore welcome the indications contained in this report and, in particular, the importance of carrying out a mapping of the programmes available inside and outside the union with a view to providing businesses with an updated picture of the services available. in my view, a european strategy, however ambitious and well-formulated, is not enough on its own to generate significant change, but it must be accompanied by a strong dissemination action among smes to improve the level of knowledge of the community instruments for internationalisation. among the dissemination tools, i attribute a central role to the new community portal which will have to provide constantly updated information on markets and sectors as well as on the community instruments available. finally, i share the need, as mentioned in the report, for better coordination and synergy between the different policies and the various european, national, regional and local instruments directly targeted at smes: the existing fragmentation needs to be reduced and greater coherence between the financial resources available at different levels needs to be ensured.
in writing. - i support the rübig report which seeks to create a policy of support for what is an excellence in europe, but above all in italy: small and mediumsized enterprises. in europe, they represent 99% of all enterprises and employ 70% of the workforce, almost 75 million people. investing in and focusing on strengthening the industrial competitiveness of smes, their internationalisation and further simplification of european regulations with the ultimate aim of reducing the administrative burdens that are already onerous, is the only way for europe to emerge from the crisis, develop its economy and face the ruthless competition of other markets.
in writing. − the relaunch of the sme system is the key to the continent's economic recovery, considering that in many countries more than 90% of business entities are small enterprises. the report is very detailed, so in expressing a favourable vote in general, i shall merely highlight some aspects of it. it is essential to enable smes to access credit for r & d activities, where structural handicaps preclude important opportunities for technological and industrial development. the recommendations in paragraphs 37-38 (dpi) and the transparent access to international tenders in paragraphs 39-43 are important. finally, i would also stress the central role of the aspects of regulatory reorganisation (one in, one out), which have a significant impact on investment where over-regulation leads to legal uncertainty. finally, i share the need to review the governance model of the een, to identify the incentive and support activities for smes offered by public bodies, local administrations and private actors, in order to recover significant savings by eliminating redundancies and duplications and contributing to better finalisation and verification of expenditure.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises are the engine of the european union: they represent 99% of our businesses and are the largest source of employment in europe. it is therefore clear that strengthening their competitiveness can be instrumental to the union's economic recovery. to this end, i fully support the measures proposed in this report: reducing the administrative burden on businesses, assessing the efficiency of existing support schemes, developing partnership forms and programmes offering training opportunities to capable entrepreneurs and young entrepreneurs, are all initiatives aimed at developing the potential of our businesses. my vote is therefore in favour.
in writing. - we know that small and mediumsized enterprises represent 99% of all enterprises in europe: it is clear that an improvement in the framework within which they are to operate would benefit the whole european economy. smes are the backbone of our economy, the real opportunity for development and job creation. but in this time of crisis, smes must be helped to enter international markets: at present only 25% operate on the common market and only 13% internationally. it is absolutely necessary to help european smes to have a simpler and more flexible regulatory framework, which will allow european entrepreneurs to avoid clashing with the various national bureaucracies, which often hinder their activities. at the same time, the various programmes, both european and national, which aim to support smes must be coordinated, avoiding unnecessary duplication which often confuses and complicates the action of entrepreneurs.
in writing. − we urgently need greater integration of eu policies in favour of smes with particular reference to innovation, growth, productivity, cost containment and reduction of bureaucracy, quality of human capital, social responsibility. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - as many as 99% of all european enterprises are smes, employing 75 million people, accounting for 70% of total employment in the eu. these figures alone should be enough to show how important it is to protect and develop this sector, which alone has contributed to the creation of over 80% of new jobs in europe over the last decade. this report sets out some of the measures and initiatives which we have been advocating for some time, starting with the reduction of administrative and bureaucratic burdens. the international dimension is still relatively underdeveloped, and therefore the strengthening of the enterprise europe network (een) can certainly be useful. the commission will also be able to provide the member states with the necessary information to enable them to take action in the event of a dispute. the helpdesk in china is a useful experiment in this respect and should be developed and improved to make it more effective and thus possibly exported to other countries.
in writing. − considering that there are some 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the eu, representing 99% of all businesses and employing 75 million people (70% of total eu employment), it is important that policy-makers explore new opportunities to exploit the dynamism of this sector, which can bring a general benefit to european society. to overcome the crisis, the eu must strengthen the international competitiveness of smes and, at the same time, take measures to reduce the administrative burden on these enterprises. in order to create a favourable environment for new ideas, to encourage the development of an entrepreneurial culture and to ensure that the new strategies are implemented as soon as possible, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - today at the strasbourg plenary session we voted on mr rubig's report. the three commission documents represent an important step towards a more coherent and coordinated eu policy in favour of smes. these documents address a number of problems that prevent smes from realising their full potential. the report stresses that the commission's approach to future action is the right one, but calls for the implementation of the new strategies to be completed as soon as possible. the recovery of the european economy is too slow and smes need the eu to act more quickly.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text of the report because industry plays a key role in the european economy. the manufacturing sector generates 25% of private sector employment in the european union and accounts for 80% of private r & d activities. these data demonstrate the impact of smes on the eu economy and underline the importance of policy makers exploring new opportunities to harness the dynamism of the sector, bringing a general benefit to european society. only if the eu can renew its policy actions to strengthen the competitiveness of smes and at the same time take measures to reduce the administrative burden on these enterprises will the potential of european entrepreneurs be developed and the eu economy grow again. public policies must focus on developing the professional skills of smes and guaranteeing them free access to information. the natural consequence will be the creation of new jobs, more innovation and higher economic growth of the business community in line with the europe 2020 objectives. italy has been standing still for years and cannot afford to waste the energy offered by its industrial fabric, which has historically been characterized by medium-sized and small companies that can count on quality, tradition and complementarity with other production systems.
in writing. − the high number of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the widespread presence of industrial districts represent an important source of advantage. i therefore believe that it is necessary to encourage the internationalisation of smes through targeted policies. the changes in recent years have helped to change competitive mechanisms, requiring a review of the conditions for success hitherto considered valid, a rethinking of the strategic models adopted in the past and the new frameworks on which firms will have to build strategies in the future. we can only welcome and support all that is needed to strengthen the entrepreneurial fabric and help support smes in accessing the single market and the markets of third countries at european level. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − european smes are very often not informed about the business support services provided by the european union and therefore do not use the resources allocated to them, thereby missing out on valuable growth opportunities. at a time of difficulties for businesses, due to the continuing economic and financial crisis, it is therefore important that the european union adopts measures to promote the internationalisation of businesses, the aggregation of smes and their ability to interface with the european institutions.
in writing. - with reference to the report in question, i express my full support for a free trade agreement which would guarantee european companies, and in particular agro-food companies, better access to the american market. in my view, the elimination of tariff barriers is an important objective in strengthening the union's economic relations with the united states, but only if this is achieved without penalising the remaining strategic sectors of the european economy. in the context of future negotiations, i would stress the need to pay particular attention to combating the phenomenon known as 'italian sounding'. in 2009, according to recent official estimates, for every 8 italian-inspired food products sold in american supermarkets, only 1 was produced in our country. i therefore urge the european commission, in the context of a free trade agreement, to take action to ensure better protection of european food products - particularly italian food products, which are particularly affected by the phenomenon of counterfeiting - and to make a more energetic commitment by the united states to combating this phenomenon.
in writing. - i support the report by mr moreira on economic and commercial relations between europe and the usa, in which the problem of recognition and protection of indications, which are essential for the protection of italian excellences, is finally raised. the system of trademark registration in the united states, which legally prevails over geographical indications, has given rise to the phenomenon of 'italian sounding', an obvious fraud on foreign consumers and a huge economic damage to the exports of our companies, especially in the agri-food sector. in addition, other areas were identified that require the search for common ground between both partners: the removal of trade barriers, the protection of intellectual property rights, greater openness in the area of access to procurement, which clearly disadvantages european smes, and convergence in the recognition of regulatory standards.
in writing. - trade relations with the united states are undoubtedly of the utmost importance for the european economy, although this is a potential which is not yet fully exploited. i welcome the work of my colleagues on the committee on international trade, who have identified the most important areas to work on in order to create growth opportunities for business which can be used to boost the global economy. i am sorry to see that some of the issues which have been on the table for a long time in multilateral negotiations have to be resolved bilaterally, but i am sincerely optimistic that the transatlantic solution will also unblock those stalled discussions in other fora. it is our duty to create the conditions for businesses to work and grow and trigger recovery, and this report plays its part in that framework.
in writing. − while acknowledging the existence of some problematic issues in the eu-us relationship, such as the conflicting views on agri-food, it cannot be ignored that the eu and the us are each other's main trading partners and that the elimination of regulatory differences and non-tariff measures that hinder trade between them would result in a considerable increase in gdp for both. given the mutual benefits that such an agreement would bring to both parties involved and the important and desirable changes to the text on geographical indications, i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − in an economic context such as the present one, characterised by high unemployment and a sharp fall in investment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) must be a priority for the european parliament. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the united states of america has been the main economic partner of the european states for decades, but there are still barriers, mostly non-tariff barriers (such as quotas, subsidies or monopolies), which prevent the full development of trade relations between europe and america. an eu-us agreement that removes these barriers would be a major step forward in the development of transatlantic trade relations and would help open up a market for european businesses. in the context of a free trade agreement, i would like to see greater protection for products and a more vigorous commitment by the united states to combating counterfeiting. the phenomenon of consumer suggestion is causing economic damage to our producers, particularly the italian agri-food industry.
in writing. − it is essential to continue strengthening transatlantic economic relations while supporting eu interests in areas such as environmental standards, animal health and protection, food safety, cultural diversity, labour rights, consumer rights, financial services, public services or geographical indications, among others.
in writing. - finally, the report stresses the importance of tackling the longstanding problem of the protection and protection of typical geographical indications, with the hope of resolving as soon as possible the real problem of the non-recognition of designations of origin and quality. the united states is by far the biggest problem in the so-called "italian sounding": the cheeses, juices and preserves that american consumers find on the shelves are in fact, for example, in 90% of cases, imitations, which in italian have perhaps only a mention in the name or in the packaging. if we are talking about pasta, olive oil or confectionery, we are in a slightly better situation, but still not enough to guarantee our products and our producers. in a market which is therefore essentially mature and 'on a par' like the us market, we cannot continue to tolerate the fact that these problems are still there, far from being solved. the protection of our qualities and excellence, which distinguish us from our american friends, must therefore be the basis for any future trade policy agreement with them.
in writing. − bearing in mind that the eu and the us are each other's main trading partners, and the two economies together account for around half of global economic output; whereas the continuing economic and financial crises, both in the eu and in the us, threaten the stability and prosperity of our economies and the well-being of our citizens, and whereas the lack of coordination of financial regulation is creating unnecessary barriers to trade, calling for closer economic cooperation between the eu and the us in order to harness the benefits of international trade in overcoming these crises; trade and foreign investment must be better used to stimulate smart and sustainable growth, which leads to more job creation and increases the well-being of people around the world. with these objectives in mind, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − parliament, in endorsing this document, in the light of the eu-us summit joint declaration of 28 november 2011 and the eu-us joint declaration of the transatlantic economic council (tec) of 29 november 2011, underlines the importance of further strengthening transatlantic economic relations while promoting eu interests in areas such as environmental standards, animal health and welfare, food safety, cultural diversity, labour rights, consumer rights, financial services, public services or geographical indications. in particular, following careful and thorough preparation and consultation, new negotiations should be launched in the first half of 2013, taking advantage of the current political momentum and industry support, and thus allowing for a swift and positive conclusion of the negotiations. it will be essential that, once such negotiations have started, all stakeholders representing the business communities organise themselves in a way that provides maximum support, to support an open and transparent dialogue aimed at making the initiative progress in a positive way.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr vital moreira on economic and trade relations with the united states. the united states is undoubtedly an important partner for the commercial interests of our member state and to promote the exports of our companies, although the european commission should make a greater effort to protect italian interests in the field of geographical indications. in this connection, i particularly appreciated the importance given in mr vital moreira's text to the need to find a solution to the protection of geographical indications. the report also rightly addresses other important issues such as the mutual removal of trade barriers, the introduction of measures to ensure better market access and appropriate investment conditions, the protection of intellectual property rights, reciprocity of openings in the field of procurement (which today sees european smes in a position of great disadvantage in terms of access) and convergence in the mutual recognition of regulatory standards.
in writing. - the priorities for economic relations between the two sides of the atlantic need to be redefined. better exploitation of the synergies between the eu and the us, through closer cooperation, would lead to the possibility of deriving numerous benefits from international trade given the continuing economic crisis. i welcome a strengthening of economic and trade relations between the european union and the united states, recognising that there is significant scope for increasing trade in goods and services and bilateral investment flows by consolidating the already strong interdependence between the two economies. through an open and transparent trading system, it will be possible to have a positive impact on various profiles such as the increase of growth potential and the increase of people's well-being. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the efficient and effective use of trade and foreign investment is of paramount importance in the current historical and economic contingency to stimulate resource-smart and sustainable growth. to this end, the eu and the us have a responsibility to work together to increase growth potential, foster financial stability, create new opportunities for businesses large and small, promote entrepreneurship and reap the benefits of the integrated transatlantic market. the united states remains the main non-european destination for italian exports, but certain obstacles make transatlantic relations not yet fully fluid. the key to unlocking the economic potential of these relations lies in the progressive convergence of legislation and the fight against non-tariff barriers (customs procedures and internal regulatory restrictions). the emphasis should also be on the protection of geographical indications for agri-food products, greater protection for italian products and a more energetic commitment by the united states to combating counterfeiting.
the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution which parliament is about to adopt is an important political act, which takes account of the ambitions and concerns which the european productive world has not yet expressed towards a country which represents an extraordinary opportunity for our economy but also a major problem. japan and the european union together account for more than a third of world gdp and more than 20% of world trade. these two figures show the importance of the negotiations we are about to open. we would therefore have preferred that the negotiations had been preceded by stronger signals from the east, which we do not think have come so far. the most important issue remains the removal of the many non-tariff barriers on the japanese side and of those regulatory barriers which cannot be justified by cultural differences alone. this removal must be a precondition for reaching a balanced and mutually beneficial agreement. the results in the public procurement and automobile sectors are particularly decisive for the successful conclusion of the negotiations. japan will have to open up its market as much as ours, in a spirit of substantial reciprocity, particularly with regard to the so-called zoning regulation of cars and the tax treatment of key cars. the question of geographical indications for agricultural and food products, including wines and spirits, will also be important. finally, we ask that parliament be kept informed of the progress of the negotiations and that the commission carry out a second assessment of the impact of a possible free trade agreement with japan, with particular reference to the most sensitive sectors such as the automotive or electronics sectors. only then, in these times of crisis in the european economy, can we say that we have protected europe's productive sectors without compromising our commitment to free, sustainable and fair trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the tone has changed a little bit in this plenary session compared with the discussion we had in june, when we were among the few who favoured the early opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement. japan is an extremely complex case, it has always been historically, more difficult than many countries to handle, to understand, to decipher. today we are under great pressure from our member states and from many sectors to move as slowly as possible towards a free trade agreement, as if japan were the number one threat to the european industrial system. the commission is therefore urged to adopt a two-pronged approach. on the one hand, a firm approach: we have a whole series of conditions in our resolution, which are very good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. however, attention must also be paid to making the best possible use of the agreement in question to ensure opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises, to ensure that there are opportunities for cultural cooperation with japan through this agreement - it is a country that lends itself very well and has great potential in this respect - and to ensure that there is a common scientific research impact with one of the major players in innovation. the second attitude is one of great will to succeed. it is a much more important agreement than others in geopolitical terms: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us remember that this is a great democracy and that is certainly a very important aspect.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years of the internal market have certainly left us with a number of positive aspects, and others less so. the questions which remain are many, important and partly open to discussion. i am referring, for example, to the possibility for a european citizen to open an account in another member state, to the portability of pensions, to the problems of small and mediumsized enterprises. we are of course in agreement on all these points, but there is one aspect which i would like to stress and which is perhaps not being discussed enough. sometimes there are rules decided in brussels that may be good for many countries, but that do not always apply everywhere in the same way. i shall just give the example of italian bathing establishments, which are unique in our country: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is applied in a fairly uniform manner. it is therefore right to harmonize, but not to approve, always respecting the principle of subsidiarity, but also involving the national, regional and local authorities more closely in the choices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, 20 years is a long time and is enough time to do a lot of things. of course, there are many things that have been done that have benefited the people of europe. i think it is important, however, to look ahead and to concentrate, as far as possible, on what is still lacking, on what needs to be done, on the second stage of the single market, as it has been called. i believe that for this reason it is necessary to pay close attention to the issues concerning the social character of the measures which form part of the single market: the person cannot be considered only in his capacity as a consumer; people are also citizens and they are also producers. so when we talk about people's rights, the chain that holds together these different places where people are to be respected and recognised, we have to create the solutions there that are needed to give the market substance, but let's not forget that the market is made of the behaviour of people in the flesh.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate before this was on the 20th anniversary of the common market. we have done so because the single market is one of the main objectives of the european union. if the single market fails, the whole of the european union could fail. erasmus is the same thing: it is for many young people - and not just for them - the very image of our union. without erasmus, many people would lose sight of the idea of european unity. it is even more so than the single market, because in the single market there is not only an economic advantage for businesses and our territories. there is nothing wrong with that, for the love of god, but erasmus is something else, it is the desire of a student to go beyond his own borders to discover the culture of other countries, to have a common study experience, with people who speak another language and perhaps also have other habits and traditions, to discover, renew, strengthen our own identity and our unity. europe was born in this way, not through treaties and not through terrible bureaucracies, but through lived and true experience. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the european parliament that has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the title of this debate is entirely appropriate: erasmus is in danger, and the danger is that without erasmus there will be another conception of europe! i thank the commissioner for his commitment and i say to the council that it must really commit itself, because the funds must be found and authorized, since the gap we have is precisely dependent on the member states. the europe that will come will be built on the shoulders of those who today seek to study and gain experience abroad. let us not betray their expectations and let us show with courage what this europe really wants to achieve. good work in the council, we are waiting for good news!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the erasmus programme must be defended tooth and nail for the rights and future of our young people. perhaps we should cut the super-stipends and super-pensions of the top bureaucrats, these untouchables of the european union, or perhaps we should reduce the royalties to the top finance and banking systems. some concrete proposals from erasmus young people: the erasmus day live initiative proposed to president barroso a few things, the exchange of respective residences could make it easier and less burdensome for families, introducing a number of working hours (our young people want to work, they could provide services in libraries, archives, cultural institutions), and then regionalization. some regions, like my own piedmont, propose to act on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. we are widening the participation base of erasmus, we are also giving our young people a role of proposing, suggesting and intervening. erasmus is important, we eurocritics support erasmus more than certain europeans who want to cut not the high bureaucracy, not the expenditure, not the waste - god forbid - but they want to cut precisely what is needed for the future of young europeans.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us say that young people cannot really be the ones to pay the costs of the crisis. there's the economic crisis, of course, and we have to cut down on waste: we are therefore starting to eliminate the double seat of parliament, just to give an example, but we are not touching the funds for the actions and projects that are working, first of all erasmus, which has given millions of young europeans - i want to stress this, often young people who have no great economic opportunities - the opportunity to have an extraordinary experience of study and vocational training, which is useful in facilitating entry into the world of work. we are constantly repeating this in this house, and therefore we must say to the young people who are watching us and who are following this debate: 'erasmus is not to be touched!' and therefore the european institutions must make every effort to achieve this objective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner and representative of the cypriot presidency, it is not a good way of celebrating the 25th anniversary of erasmus to send messages that destabilize and disorient young europeans. i think we need to know that the 33 countries that are seeing the erasmus programme and the 2.5 million students who have had opportunities for training mobility up to now need to be certain. it is not conceivable that the cause of the crisis of this programme is precisely its success, even in terms of the funding already used. i think we have to have a sense of something, today the total long life learning programme represents in the last week only 0.7% of the eu budget, and we are talking about next week wanting an increase of 65%, 75%. it would be a totally schizophrenic message to say that there is no possibility of honouring commitments. i hope that there will be a real and firm commitment from the cypriot presidency and the council to reconsider the additions which have been requested by the commission, and parliament must give a united and strong signal so that young people do not become eurosceptic too.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc.
the offices tell me that we have fully complied with the procedure, so the vote is valid and so we move on.
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased with mrs bastos' report, which i supported with a favourable vote. unfortunately, the severe economic crisis that has hit europe has had a negative impact on the perception of the potential of the single market, both by citizens and businesses, and by some national governments or political movements. this risks clouding the excellent work done by the european institutions to relaunch and strengthen the single market, for example through the wide-ranging reform of public markets or the revision of the late payments directive. i therefore share the need, as the honourable member has pointed out, for greater interinstitutional cooperation between the european union and the member states. all too often, fundamental measures such as the creation of unitary patent protection have been blocked or delayed because of institutional conflicts and national selfishness. in a time of crisis such as the present one, we need a unified approach to governance that allows us to implement the necessary legislation in a timely manner, to revive the internal market and to strengthen citizens' rights within the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in order to revive the single market, which is an essential element in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, i believe it is important to increase the number of strategies aimed at reviving economic growth and employment, and to win the confidence of citizens and businesses. i am in favour of the text of the report, as it stresses the gap between expectations and reality, which often leads to growing concern: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. at a time when citizens are looking at europe with suspicion, we need to strengthen cooperation between the institutions of the european union and the member states, so that we can focus on promoting competitiveness by creating new jobs, contributing to research and innovation and territorial cohesion, and defending our companies and our quality products. for example, energy costs, which for many companies represent the largest part of their expenditure, should be harmonized, creating a single european market.
thank you, mr deva. my english is not perfect, but i am learning.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the single market is a great achievement and is now more than ever an essential element in achieving the ambitious objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. a common energy policy, for example, is now indispensable to guarantee all european citizens safe and clean energy at more affordable prices. the removal of obstacles and the relaunching of the single market will be decisive in the current context of economic and social crisis in europe, because they will contribute to innovation, growth, development, the promotion of competitiveness and, above all, the creation of new jobs.
in writing. − on 29 april 2008, a stabilisation and association agreement (saa) was signed in luxembourg between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part. the commission has proposed an implementing regulation to facilitate the application of the interim agreement, which lays down detailed rules and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules on the implementation of certain provisions of these agreements. mr winkler felt that the amendments to the commission proposal in question should follow the changes made by the trade omnibus i report. i agree with the rapporteur, because this solution will ensure the consistency and coherence of the european parliament's position on this matter. the report therefore contains amendments aimed at aligning the amended provisions with the amendments made by the trade omnibus i regulation to the five regulations concerning the application of the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements with the other western balkan countries. i fully agree with the report by my colleague and have therefore decided to give you my full support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the purpose of the eu-serbia stabilisation and association agreement is to align the rules of the common commercial policy with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts introduced by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the significance of the eu-republic of serbia saa could be seen in the balkan republic's trade balance alone, which sees the union as a leading partner with a share of almost two thirds of the total value. this is a necessary step towards closer integration between belgrade and brussels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. previous agreements have shown that they can promote significant and important progress in a wide range of key areas, from the liberalisation of markets to the encouragement of foreign investment, from the strengthening of the rule of law to the consequent increase in the freedom of enterprise and the exchange of ideas and information, to civil and economic freedoms, from the modernisation of the legal order to the gradual alignment of legislation with the european acquis. serbia is an important market and a natural partner for our countries. i therefore vote in favour of the report, including the proposed amendments (e.g. the conferral of executive powers on the commission) and the forecasts on tariff quotas.
in writing. − having regard to the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, signed in luxembourg on 29 april 2008 and entering into force on 1 february 2010, and in order to ensure the correct and smooth application of the interim agreement, the commission proposes an implementing regulation laying down the modalities and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules on the implementation of certain provisions of these agreements. in view of the fact that this was previously done for other asas through regulations which are part of the trade omnibus i regulation, the amendments to the commission proposal in question should follow the changes made by the trade omnibus i report to the provisions of the said regulations. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the interests of consistency in commercial legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is, of course, a text which has undergone only minor changes and which can be regarded as a mere adaptation to existing legislation. i like to emphasize the political value of this small vote. we must be close to serbia and help it to develop and grow. i am very sceptical about such agreements with other countries, but promoting trade between the union and serbia can be an important opportunity for both sides.
in writing. - in order to ensure the proper application of the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of serbia, i welcome the proposal for an implementing regulation laying down the detailed rules and procedures to be used for the adoption of detailed rules on the implementation of certain provisions of these agreements. in order to ensure consistency and uniformity in trade legislation, i believe that the amended provisions should be aligned with the amendments made by the trade omnibus i regulation to the five regulations concerning the application of the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements with the other western balkan countries. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - despite some problems in amending the old provisions, i agree with the rapporteur that the commission proposal should be accepted in its present form, given its urgency and its importance for the continuation of the seed import regime.
in writing. − i would remind you that council decision 2003/17/ec establishing a list of countries for which the application of the principle of equivalence to imports from third countries of fodder plant, cereal, beet and oil and fibre plant seed is recognised, limits the period for which equivalence is recognised to five years and that this period expires on 31 december 2012; therefore, in order to ensure the necessary supply of seed to the european union market, it is necessary to amend those rules by extending the deadline until 31 december 2022, although currently only a temporary extension of 5 years is provided for. i also think that serbia should be added to the list of countries with an equivalent system and that the former yugoslavia should be deleted from the list. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i am in favour of mr hudghton's report because i support the proposal to extend the member states' jurisdiction over coastal waters up to 12 miles until 31 december 2014. in fact, unlike the cfp, the policy for coastal waters up to 12 miles has been favourably assessed and has had positive effects.
in writing. the common fisheries policy was declared a failure by the same green paper on the cfp, which instead recognised the success of local management in this area, represented by the policy of coastal waters up to 12 miles. i can therefore only support this report in its willingness to support the proposal to extend the 12 mile policy until the end of 2014. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - mr hudghton's report raises several aspects and issues related to cfp reform. in particular, attention is paid to the measures to be taken to preserve the species at risk on the european coasts. however, the common fisheries policy, because of its importance and the role it plays in regulating the fisheries sector, cannot fail to take account of the specific features of each area. in this sense, as we are already doing in the drafting of the new common agricultural policy, the environmental component, which must certainly be protected, must be carefully reconciled with the competitive and market needs of the operators in the sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the conservation of fishery resources. the fisheries reform has so far been weak and misunderstood by our european fishermen. so we need better communication with these communities. , often subject to legislative decisions intended to maintain the sustainability of stocks and thus guarantee continuity of work for fishermen, but which must not be to the detriment of the economic and social balance of maritime operators.
in writing. − considering that the current 12-nautical-mile zone is effective but will cease to be in force on 31 december 2012, it is now necessary to extend its validity of application. although the management of fishery resources beyond the 12 nautical mile limit has been characterised by highly centralised and ineffective control by brussels, management within the coastal zones by the member states has proved to be stable and positive. i therefore hope for a reform of the cfp which will lead to a highly decentralised system in general and which will allow member states to take real management decisions, while cooperating at regional level, and stressing that the 12 nautical mile zone has really proved effective and that there are good reasons to be in favour of extending its distance, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the report by mr hudghton was voted on today at the strasbourg plenary session. the rapporteur supports the extension of the 12-nautical-mile zone in terms of both time and distance, and accepts that this debate should take place within the wider framework of the cfp reform. the current 12-nautical-mile zone is effective, but will cease to be in force on 31 december 2012, so today's vote extends this period until 31 december 2014. the area provides a degree of protection for vulnerable coastal communities. the rapporteur therefore proposes to approve the current proposal and to extend the scheme for two years, although the need for greater national control of coastal fisheries will continue to be strongly supported in the wider context of the cfp reform package.
in writing. − the common fisheries policy (cfp) aims to ensure the long-term sustainability of the fisheries sector. it is known that the cfp fisheries management rule in the 12 nautical mile zone has achieved positive results. results attributable to the success of member states in fisheries management. since the management of fisheries beyond the 12 mile limit, which is left to the control of brussels, has proved ineffective, i would very much welcome the idea of a decentralised system. this will enable member states to manage the fisheries system beyond the limits set, while at the same time cooperating at regional level with a view to greater national control. my vote in favour is based on the desire to support the extension of the limit of access to fish stocks to the 12 nautical miles from the coast of the member states.
in writing. - the common fisheries policy has had several failures over the last 30 years, while many people recognise that fisheries management in the 12 nautical mile zone has been a success. although the management of fishery resources beyond the 12 nautical mile limit has been characterised by highly centralised and ineffective control by brussels, management within the coastal zones by the member states has proved to be stable and positive. that is why, as the debate on a wider reform of the common fisheries policy continues, i have expressed my support for the extension of the derogation for fishing in the 12 nautical mile zone until 31 december 2014.
in writing. - i support the report with reference to the rapporteur's assessments and the merits of the agreement. the eu is the main trading partner of the republic of moldova, accounting for just under half of its total trade. this is an element which should not be underestimated from the political and cultural point of view, in a chessboard characterized, since the beginning of the 20th century, by geopolitical forces of opposite character. the agreement specifically states that a good third of imports from moldova are agricultural and food products: it is therefore in our direct interest to support cooperation agreements and regulatory convergence processes that promote a culture of quality and excellence in this sector, which, along with fashion, remains one of the most vulnerable to fraud. finally, the direct positive effects of the gip system in terms of the protection of agricultural land against speculative temptations must be considered, a problem which is urgently needed in the face of recurrent tensions on the commodity market. each of these initiatives contributes to the spread of a culture of defending the general interest, including in terms of preserving rural habitats and economies.
in writing. − i gave a favourable opinion on the report on the conclusion of the agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, considering that both parties seek the mutual protection of geographical indications in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and preserve the value of sustainable rural development. citizens and consumers of the union increasingly demand traditional products of high quality and protected geographical origin, which generate a demand for food and agricultural products whose specificity is clearly recognisable. the proposed agreement is the result of bilateral negotiations which had a twofold objective: the commission is also proposing to extend the protection and use of the geographical indications scheme and to take action against any misuse of eu geographical indications. similarly, the republic of moldova was interested in developing and protecting its current geographical indications in the territory of the european union and in strengthening its relations with it. in conclusion, i fully agree with the fact that this agreement does not envisage any impact on the union budget.
in writing. - i support the report because i believe that the protection of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs has clear benefits for consumers and producers. the interests of the countries concerned are thus better protected in the name of product quality and safety and sustainable rural development. in an increasingly global market and with the succession of free trade agreements, including in the agricultural sector, it is our clear duty to defend the uniqueness, specificity, quality and traceability of products.
in writing. - while other countries pose the greatest problems to our production system, when it comes to the very sensitive subject of geographical indications, it should be noted that this agreement, in addition to not affecting the union budget, could be a valuable element in the fight against and prevention of food counterfeiting: my vote will therefore be in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs moreira because i believe that the text maintains firmly and firmly the guidelines to be followed in the process of drawing up such bilateral agreements. the european parliament has worked and continues to work fruitfully to preserve the quality and the related certifications of our agricultural and food products. in this context, it is essential to take account of these objectives when drawing up agreements with non-eu countries, but it is also essential to take account of the economic and social needs of both parties to the agreement, and above all, it is a priority to protect european agricultural production, the only holders of hygiene and health standards that guarantee consumers. it is my personal hope that the quality of these bilateral agreements will improve, taking due account of the specificities and needs of european agricultural producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must protect the agricultural specialities of our territories as much as possible, and this measure on the mutual recognition of typical geographical indications with the republic of moldova is a step in the right direction. the european union should conclude agreements of this kind with all its trading partners, starting with those which still cause us the greatest problems today because of the lack of protection of our honourable members: i am referring in particular to the united states, canada, australia and new zealand, with whom this delicate and important question still has to be resolved. this week a report was voted on trade relations with the united states, in which there is finally an explicit reference to the protection of our trademarks of origin and quality. this agreement with moldova, which is also free of charge for the eu budget, can therefore help to prevent the cases of food counterfeiting, which all too often affect our products and our farms.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the italian representative of a country like italy which excels in the quality of its agricultural and food products - too often illegitimately imitated - i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications for agricultural and food products because it has two objectives: the republic of moldova will protect the complete list of eu gis and the eu will extend the protection and use of the geographical indications regime; in addition, it will be possible to address any abuse of eu geographical indications.
in writing. − considering that the european union and the republic of moldova pursue the mutual protection of geographical indications (gi) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and preserve the value of sustainable rural development, bilateral negotiations were concluded on 18 april 2011 with a dual objective for the european union: on the one hand, the extension of the protection and use of the geographical indications system; on the other hand, the possibility of intervening at the source of any misuse of eu geographical indications. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations with moldova, which have led to the conclusion of a trade agreement with moldova.
in writing. − the agreement will allow for the mutual protection of geographical indications and will contribute to the approximation of the legislation of the neighbouring countries, in this case moldova, to the european union. the agreement ensures the maintenance of the respective geographical indications which are protected in both countries and from a european perspective the interests of our countries are preserved. this agreement is an important step in the ongoing negotiations for a comprehensive and deep free trade agreement with moldova.
in writing. - my vote on this report was of course in favour. it is a good sign that the european commission has reached such an agreement, although moldova certainly does not pose a threat to our geographical indications. we expect that efforts will be intensified to achieve recognition of our productive excellence with other third countries such as the usa and australia. that must be our objective, but i doubt whether commissioner de gucht has the will or the ability to pursue it.
in writing. − in order to ensure mutual protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, the european union and the republic of moldova have worked towards an agreement aimed at achieving higher quality standards in the food chain and supporting sustainable rural development. i believe that the call for mutual protection is essential to protect any abuse of eu geographical indications and to protect and encourage the development of geographical indications on the territory of the republic of moldova. since the agreement in question has no impact on the eu budget and for the reasons set out above, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr moreira, in which the european union and the republic of moldova seek to protect each other's geographical indications in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote the quality of the food chain and safeguard the value of sustainable rural development.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of mr deva's report because the food aid convention is fully in line with eu policies and the millennium development goals. the lisbon treaty makes poverty reduction and its eradication the main objective of the union's policy. food security remains a key challenge: about 14% of the world's population was undernourished in 2010, and malnutrition is now the underlying cause of more than a third of child deaths.
in writing. - as no amendments to the convention are possible, in announcing my vote in favour of the recommendations, i would like to join in some of the remarks in the report. the extension of eligible activities shall be in line with a timely approach to food assistance, the capabilities of donors and the needs of beneficiaries; the food assistance committee will be able to promote coordination policies, including to strengthen the conditions necessary for the effective adoption of assistance plans, in line with the general principles underlying eu cooperation and development policies, such as respect for human and civil rights, a minimum framework of administration and governance, essential levels of transparency, timely verification of results and completion of aid. the whole system must be developed from an original idea of how to use agricultural surpluses to an effective culture of supporting and developing agricultural productivity in the beneficiary countries. finally, i share the wish that the donors' commitment should be expressed in terms of value alone, since it is obvious that the ability to express in terms of quantity is an outdated legacy of a time when the global market for agricultural products was less volatile.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty has set the reduction and consequent eradication of poverty as the main objective of the european union's development policy. the food aid convention is fully in line with the union's policies and the millennium development goals, and malnutrition now affects about 14% of the world's population and kills more than two and a half million children every year.
in writing. − i approve and support the food assistance convention (faa) which adopts new criteria compared to the previous one, introducing a criterion of aid-independence rather than a continuous subsistence criterion which prevents growth and development. in addition, the criteria introduced, which aim at transparency and openness to new products and terms in the convention, make this revision of the caa certainly positive. as the rapporteur has pointed out, there are still a number of areas for improvement, but progress in the direction of more regulation of aid distribution and access to aid will undoubtedly make the convention more effective. finally, emphasis should be placed on the introduction of agricultural and food products which are not only intended to satisfy food requirements but also to safeguard subsistence in emergency conditions and rapid recovery, such as seeds, dairy and meat cattle.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree with the call for the european union to formulate an ambitious minimum annual commitment for 2013 in accordance with article 5 of the convention and to duly honour its annual commitments. hunger and food insecurity remain challenges from which we cannot escape.
in writing. − considering that hunger and food insecurity currently remain global challenges, and despite the significant developments in the last decade on several fronts, progress on hunger and malnutrition remains inexorably slow, amendments to the food assistance convention (caa 1999) are necessary. underlining that the 2012 caa is fully in line with the measures currently being taken by the european union to help reduce poverty and eradicate hunger in the world under the millennium development goals, and calling for the establishment of an international, legally binding framework defining and providing for commitments and instruments for the provision of food aid to developing countries, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i welcome the proposal to amend the previous food assistance convention (caa 1999) in order to provide, through the caa 2012, for the establishment of a legally binding international framework defining and providing for commitments and instruments for the provision of food aid to developing countries. food assistance policies that are able to address the challenges of hunger and malnutrition are needed. the needs of the most deprived populations require us to make greater efforts to improve the instruments of intervention. the 2012 caa will be geared towards a long-term perspective that can support functional rehabilitation and recovery programmes that are conducive to the growth of production and the strengthening of local livelihoods. i believe that a targeted update of the previous convention will make it possible to relieve the most vulnerable countries of longterm aid, for example by including among the eligible products not only those aimed at meeting food needs but also those aimed at safeguarding livelihoods in emergency situations. i am voting in favour of this with a view to pursuing these ambitious commitments.
in writing. some aspects of the convention should still be reassessed and improved, either at the implementation stage or in a future revision of the convention. however, the amendments to the food assistance convention (caa 1999) are a real step forward and the conclusion of the 2012 caa and the work of mr deva on his report should be welcomed. as a reminder, hunger and food insecurity remain global challenges today. while significant progress has been made in several areas over the past decade, progress in the fight against hunger and malnutrition has been very slow. in 2010, about 925 million people, or 13.6 percent of the world's population, were undernourished, despite a decline in monetary poverty in several regions. ninety-eight percent of the undernourished live in developing countries. 60% of them are women.
in writing. − despite considerable improvements over the past decade, progress on hunger, malnutrition and food insecurity remains inexorably slow. the 2012 food assistance convention is fully in line with the measures taken by the union to contribute to reducing poverty and eradicating hunger in the world under the millennium development goals. it is clear, however, that these objectives will only be attainable by establishing a legally binding international framework defining and providing for commitments and instruments for the provision of food aid to developing countries.
in writing. − the right of a national of an unrepresented member state to receive assistance from the consular authorities of other represented member states is one of the rights conferred by citizenship of the union. this is a right which has been in force for many years, but which the european citizens are still not fully aware of. as a member of the libe committee responsible for civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i must consider the work done on this report to be more than satisfactory. i believe that the measures adopted will be able to strengthen the exercise of this right, thanks to greater coordination between member states in the field of consular representation. the only remaining doubt is the publicity of these new measures among the european citizens. in this context, i believe that a coordinated information campaign at european level can be the most effective instrument for achieving the desired results.
in writing. − in a recent article, historian niall ferguson argued that the current system of european governance embodies the historical assumption of the united states of america facing the 21st century with the institutional instrument of the old articles of confederation, which survived only eight years after constitutional revisions imposed for obvious political and practical reasons. the point is that the european institutions must commit themselves to closing the gap between relatively advanced integration and its necessary implementation, which in various spheres shows delays and inadequacies. this report, which i support with a favourable vote, resolves one of these contradictions in the field of the diplomatic representation of european citizens, an area of particular importance if we were to compile an annual list of crisis situations which have required the intervention of the consular authorities of individual member states. at any time, the rights and widespread interests of our citizens can be threatened by sudden crises, even in remote areas. i therefore find the report's proposals (including the creation of the trust fund) appropriate, as an integration of consular protection activities, which is already informally practised in some areas of the world, would allow a more efficient defence of european interests and would substantiate the notion of citizenship of the union.
in writing. − consular protection of citizens abroad (protected under article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights of the union) is effective both in everyday practice and in crisis situations. the latter concern an increasing number of contexts, which is why it is desirable to simplify access to rights and increase the knowledge of these rights by the citizen, since as a community citizen he is therefore in a position to exploit solidarity between member states in the event that his country is not directly represented in the third country or he himself has difficulty reaching his diplomatic mission. i therefore welcome the report, but i also recognize the need for further action and clarification in the future, for example on the role and functions of delegations and the definition of the financial resources needed to make them practical.
in writing. - i fully agree with the views expressed in this report. any citizen of a member state of the union who finds himself in difficulty in a foreign country where his state is not represented should have the possibility of contacting the diplomatic and consular services of the other member states or, in the absence of such services, the delegation of the european union in that state. i also welcome the fact that the eu delegations in third countries are to be given a coordinating role between the member states, particularly with regard to representation and assistance to citizens in crisis situations. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - we voted by a very large majority today for this resolution which states that european citizens who find themselves in difficulty abroad can turn to the consulate or embassy of any member state of the european union or, if necessary, to the eu delegation for assistance. i congratulate my colleague, mrs edith bauer, who drew up the resolution. i agree with you completely: this resolution shows the face of a europe close to its citizens. the proposal strengthens consular rights by clarifying when a citizen is considered not to be represented and specifying the type of assistance that member states typically provide in cases of need.
in writing. − in crisis situations, union delegations should ensure the necessary coordination between member states. in order to fulfil that role, the european external action service (eeas) should be provided with the necessary financial means, including for training courses for consular staff of the member states.
in writing. - european citizens are moving more and more, thanks to better protection of their rights when travelling, for which this parliament has fought hard. consular protection for union citizens abroad who cannot rely on the diplomatic representation (consulate or embassy) of their country of origin is therefore a necessary act of a union which must insist on promoting a sense of european identity for all its citizens.
in writing. − although, under article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), every citizen of the union enjoys, in the territory of a third country in which the member state of which he is a national is not represented, protection by the diplomatic and consular authorities of any member state, under the same conditions as nationals of that state, there are cases where, although the union citizen has his embassy or consulate in the third country, it is inaccessible. it is therefore important to define the accessibility of the embassy or consulate in sufficient time to reach it and/or return to the place of departure on the same day; in addition, in crisis situations, the union delegation should be responsible for coordinating and providing assistance with regard to crisis preparedness. in order to facilitate access to their rights for eu citizens, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the consular and diplomatic services of all member states must protect any european citizen seeking help abroad, providing the same protection as they would a fellow citizen. any european citizen in difficulty abroad, for example after an accident, rape or theft, or arrest in a crisis situation, will be free to seek help from an embassy or consulate of any other eu member state or, if necessary, from the eu delegation, if his or her country is not represented. eu delegations in non-eu countries (run by the european external action service) will need to coordinate with member states to ensure that citizens who do not have a representation from their own country can be fully assisted during a crisis. many eu citizens were caught up in the crises of the past year, for example in libya, egypt and bahrain during the democratic uprisings of spring 2011 or in japan after the earthquake of march 2011. consular protection is often essential in everyday situations too, for example if you are seriously ill or a victim of crime. more europe can mean more help for the european citizens who need it.
in writing. − the right of a national of an unrepresented member state to receive assistance from the consular authorities of other represented member states is one of the rights conferred by citizenship of the union. all citizens of the european union living in or travelling to a third country where their member state of origin is not represented shall be entitled to diplomatic and consular protection by the authorities of any member state, under the same conditions as nationals of that state. in emergency or crisis situations, such as japan, libya or egypt, a union citizen abroad has the right to ask the consulate or embassy of another eu member state for assistance if his own is not available, and member states have an obligation to help all union citizens, like their own, evacuate the country. the treaty of lisbon requires that solidarity between member states be fostered, so in everyday cases of consular protection, such as in the case of loss of identity documents, arrest, detention or death, the unrepresented citizen has the right to seek the assistance of any diplomatic or consular authority of a member state. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of the proposal for a directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive on consular protection for citizens of the union because i believe that citizens who are abroad and who do not have a representation from their own country should enjoy the same assistance from the diplomatic services of all the member states. the level of protection must be equivalent to that which the member state in question guarantees to its own nationals. facilitating cooperation between diplomatic services at local level, coordinating emergency situations, providing information to citizens, including through the commission and member states' websites, must be objectives that the european union must soon be able to guarantee to its citizens.
in writing. − new rules will make it possible to simplify the right of eu citizens to protection in third countries. sharing new legislative instruments, with a view to a common approach to consular protection, will facilitate recourse to any diplomatic or consular authority of a member state in a plurality of cases ranging from the loss of identity documents to arrest, detention or death. i welcome the proposal that the coordination and assistance of crisis situations involving nationals of member states in a third country should be left to the union delegation. the idea of a leading coordinating role for the delegation will facilitate consular protection as well as strengthen the role of the extensive network of eu delegations in consular protection. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − under article 23 of the treaty, citizens of the union who are in a third country where their member state is not represented have the right to apply to the consulate or embassy of another member state of the european union. the report by mr bauer, supporting the idea of a common approach in this area, aims to strengthen the consular rights of european citizens and to facilitate access to their rights, including the right to protection in third countries, also in view of the ever increasing number of crisis zones.
in writing. − i believe that the european single market, which is a space comprising more than 500 million consumers and economic activities worth over eur 11 billion, is an essential element both for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and for achieving its objectives of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. the relaunch of the single market and the strengthening of its effectiveness are therefore essential if europe is to boost economic growth, employment and the confidence of its citizens. unfortunately, it is clear that european businesses and citizens continue to face obstacles to the exercise of their rights under the acquis in the single market. the gap between the expectations and the reality of the single market persists, and is caused by a number of shortcomings, such as the lack of information and/or assistance to citizens in exercising their rights and the legislative gaps that businesses encounter in certain areas when carrying out their activities. the importance of removing these obstacles and reviving the single market is clear, especially in the current context of the economic and financial crisis that has hit europe, as they contribute to growth, the promotion of competitiveness and job creation.
in writing. - parliament is working on several fronts to strengthen the notion of european citizenship and certainly in this context the social value of the internal market is a primary theme. i agree with mrs bastos' analysis of the gaps (communication, implementation and legislation), the resulting recommendations and corrective actions and therefore i vote in favour of the report. i would like to stress in particular the urgency of certain initiatives, in view of the reduction in the rights and opportunities of our fellow citizens, and in particular of small businesses, families and the elderly, in relation to the factors of competitiveness (training and human capital, access to public procurement in other states, energy supplies), the right of the taxpayer (double taxation of work or pension treatment, portability of pensions, european health service). the current barriers to the single market (including in the field of company law, the interoperability of technological, transport and educational networks) constitute an obstacle to competitiveness and a brake on competition, to the benefit of structures, patterns and mindsets characteristic of pre-maastricht economies, with measurable negative effects on citizens. the best way to combat this resistance is through transparency and oversight by the relevant european institutions, in partnership with consumers and the public.
in writing. the single market is celebrating its 20th anniversary this year. this is an important step which demonstrates the importance of the single market, but which also requires a first assessment, highlighting its strengths and weaknesses. the single market has undoubtedly simplified certain aspects of communication, information, access to documents and commercial relations between citizens of the european union. but there's still work to be done. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. i therefore support the commission's recommendations which called, amongst other things, for measures to modernise the system for the recognition of professional qualifications and to improve access to public procurement opportunities.
in writing. − in the current time of severe crisis, the eu must step up its efforts to remove obstacles to the proper functioning of the single market, particularly in areas that can act as engines for sustainable growth, such as cross-border business and trade, the provision of services, mobility, access to finance and financial literacy. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which gives a good account of the concerns of the citizens: the european internal market is a single area comprising over eur 11 billion of economic activity and where goods can move freely. in the 20 years since its completion - 1992 - the internal market has been able to ensure competitiveness for businesses and benefits for consumers, who are now expressing even greater concerns. above all, there is a gap between the expectations and the reality of the single market, a gap caused by interrelated gaps such as information, as people are often unaware of their rights; implementation, as there is a gap between the eu legal framework and the actual implementation of legislation in many areas; finally, there is a legislative gap in certain areas where the eu legal framework does not meet the expectations of citizens and businesses.
in writing. − considering that the single market, completed in 1992, was created with the aim of strengthening the links between citizens and member states and is characterised by a borderless area within which people, goods, services and capital can move freely, it is an essential element for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and for achieving its objectives of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. however, the economic, financial and social crisis that has hit europe since 2008 has had a strong impact on the single market, which has led to a negative view of the single market by citizens and, at the same time, has led to the european institutions and member states taking note of the potential of the single market that has yet to be exploited. in order to revive the single market and to increase citizens' confidence in it, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs bastos on her work. in adopting this text, parliament, in the light of professor mario monti's report to the commission on the relaunch of the single market, called on the commission to present 'concrete actions and feasible proposals' to address the first 20 concerns expressed by citizens and businesses. parliament stressed that the banking system had prevented some 30 million european citizens from opening bank accounts, thus hindering mobility within the single market, and that the introduction of a european professional card was essential to speed up the recognition of professional qualifications and thus facilitate the mobility of workers between member states. finally, the commission, the member states, regional and local authorities and representatives of civil society must launch a campaign of information and dialogue with citizens on the single market.
in writing. - the single market has certainly brought benefits to our citizens and businesses. that is why i am voting in favour. the problem is that, unlike our competitors such as the united states, the european commission's trade policy towards third countries does not allow us to protect our interests. similarly, the single market cannot be invoked as the solution to every problem in europe. in fact, it is often precisely because of bad directives, such as the directive on services, that our workers and our businesses are in a lot of trouble. the single market is a good thing, but it should not be an instrument designed solely to meet the needs of multinationals.
in writing. − the european single market, created with the aim of facilitating the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, is now considered a prime instrument for overcoming the economic and financial crisis. the european single market is also an essential tool for the pursuit of the europe 2020 strategy. nevertheless, there is still a significant information asymmetry between european citizens and the single market, making the barriers to access to the benefits it brings almost insurmountable. i believe that the approach to the existing system needs to be changed so that practical solutions are given priority, allowing citizens to become more familiar with eu projects and activities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the single market was created with the aim of strengthening the links between citizens and member states through a borderless area in which people, goods, services and capital can move freely. in the year of its 20th anniversary, the gap between expectations and reality has unfortunately become clear: european businesses and citizens continue to face obstacles to the exercise of their rights, and the economic and social crisis that has hit europe since 2008 has certainly not helped the situation. this has made it necessary to draw up proposals for modernisation in the area of recognition of professional qualifications or access to public procurement opportunities, in order to revive the very idea of the 'single market' and to increase the confidence of european citizens.
in writing. - i voted against the appointment of this new member of the executive board of the european central bank. i am not disputing mr mersch's competence and qualifications, but i am still very puzzled by the way these representatives are chosen. the european parliament, the only institution democratically elected by the citizens of the union, has simply to approve or reject a nomination from above by the council: i think it would be desirable to have more choice, perhaps by presenting a list of names from which to choose. the appointment was also criticised for the lack of women on the ecb's board of directors: i am not a supporter of the "pink quotas", because i find them counterproductive and even perhaps humiliating for the very women who have many abilities; but it is a fact that such an imbalance is rather distorted, beyond the more or less facade of feminist struggles.
in writing. − whereas, by letter of 13 july 2012, received on 18 july 2012, the european council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of yves mersch as a member of the executive board of the european central bank (ecb) for a term of office of eight years, and whereas the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in relation to the conditions laid down in article 283 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and the imperative of the ecb's full independence in the area of monetary policy as resulting from article 130 tfeu; that, as part of this assessment, the committee received a curriculum vitae from the applicant and his replies to the written questionnaire sent to him; i am voting in favour of the motion.
in writing. - i voted against this proposal and i am glad that there was a majority of my colleagues who shared my view. the committee responsible for the subject had asked the council to nominate a woman and, not having been heard, reacted negatively to the recommendation to appoint yves mersch as a member of the executive board of the european central bank. i have no evidence to say that mersch did not deserve that post, but i cannot help but consider that the appointment of a man would exclude women from the ecb board until 2018. i am also very sceptical about the methodology used. it is humiliating for the european parliament to have to ratify decisions made by others.
in writing. - i have expressed my favourable opinion on the proposal for an amendment to regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community, as i consider that, in the interests of legal certainty and the principle of good administration, it is necessary to provide that these amendments apply as soon as possible to all new and pending investigations. regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 should therefore be amended, in particular as regards the three-month period granted to the commission to decide on the market economy treatment applications. i therefore hope that the use of anti-dumping will be reduced, regardless of zero or minimum margins. it is for these reasons that the committee on international trade has adopted the draft resolution by a simplified procedure. i take this opportunity to congratulate mr vital moreira on his work in examining the proposal for a regulation in question.
in writing. − whereas on 2 february 2012 the court of justice of the european union, in case c-249/10 p brosmann, annulled regulation (ec) no 1472/2006 of 5 october 2006 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty, by finding that the sampling technique provided for in article 17 of regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 cannot be applied for the purpose of determining individual met claims, it is considered appropriate to introduce a provision clarifying that the decision to limit the investigation to a reasonable number of producers, using samples on the basis of article 17 of that regulation, also applies to the parties subject to a met examination. i am therefore voting in favour of the proposal, as i hope that these amendments will apply as soon as possible to all new and pending investigations.
in writing. - my vote on this measure is in favour. unfortunately, certain decisions of the court of justice and the harsh constraints imposed by the world trade organisation severely limit our freedom to legislate to protect european industry and workers from counterfeit goods or products which do not respect social and environmental standards. i therefore hope that the agenda of the european institutions in this sensitive area will no longer be dictated by globalising judgments or impositions, but by a serious trade and industrial policy.
in writing. − following the annulment of regulation (ec) no 1472/2006 of 5 october 2006 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty by the court of justice of the european union, the sampling technique provided for in article 17 of regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 cannot be applied for the purpose of determining individual met claims. i consider it appropriate to introduce the limitation of the investigation as provided for in article 17, namely to a reasonable number of producers in accordance with the sampling procedures provided for in article 17. i welcome the proposal to simplify the procedure in accordance with the principles of legal certainty and good administration. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i think that, in the light of the ongoing economic crisis, for the eu it is crucial to deepen its trade relationship with a major global economy such as japan in order to maximise jobs creation and growth potential. i believe that the free trade agreement with japan could lead to genuine market openness and trade facilitation on the ground, rather than just a hypothetical, legal openness. for this reason, with this text we ask the commission to periodically update parliament and the council on the state of play of the negotiations and on the progress made on dismantling non-tariff barriers to trade on the japanese market.
in writing. − japan is pursuing its interests in other important free trade agreements, such as the possible japan-china-south korea free trade agreement and the trans-pacific partnership, and is negotiating various other bilateral agreements. we need to learn from the experience gained through the free trade agreement with south korea to achieve comparable market access penetration in the negotiations with japan. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − whereas the eu and japan together account for over one third of world gdp and more than 20% of world trade; and whereas the european parliament, the council and the commission have noted that japan's ability to remove non-tariff barriers and barriers to access to the public procurement market is a precondition for the opening of negotiations for an eu-japan free trade agreement (fta); i am also convinced that, in the face of the new challenges posed by a globalised world, it is necessary to take account of the importance of japan as a political ally with an approach similar to that of the european union, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleagues vital moreira and metin kazak on their work. in approving this text, parliament, in the light of its resolution of 25 november 2010 on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements, underlines that a free trade agreement between the eu and japan can create a win-win situation for both economies and that greater integration, achieved through an economic integration agreement, would considerably increase the benefits for the economies themselves. in particular, it stresses that such a free trade agreement must be comprehensive, ambitious and fully binding in all its trade provisions, but above all it stresses that a free trade agreement must lead to genuine market opening and trade facilitation on the ground, and not just hypothetical and legal opening.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution, despite the fact that the committee on international trade has drawn up an interesting text which touches on many of the most important issues concerning relations between the european union and japan. i am concerned, however, that a possible free trade agreement with japan would be harmful to our industrial system and would risk a repeat of what happened with south korea. my opposition to a tariff-free agreement between europe and japan is total and unconditional.
in writing. − the european union and japan together account for over one third of world gdp and more than 20% of world trade. at the joint summit of 28 may 2011, it was decided to launch an exploratory exercise to assess the feasibility and common ambition to start negotiations on a free trade agreement. now that the exploratory exercise is over, we can begin to negotiate the agreement on the basis of the experience of the agreement with south korea. in that case, while the service companies benefited, the european automobile industry was harmed. the future agreement with japan must provide for sectoral differences to avoid negative repercussions in the industrial sectors, which employ thousands of workers and represent an important element of the real economy compared to financial and service companies that produce capital not distributed among the population.
in writing. - i expressed my support for the possible launch of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and japan, which could lead to a satisfactory outcome for european industry and the economy. the european parliament's proposals are particularly important, including the establishment of clear and ambitious roadmaps to measure in practice the results achieved in opening up the japanese market, especially as regards public procurement and the automotive sector. to link the tariff concessions on the european side to this aspect; to introduce effective bilateral safeguard measures to avoid potential damage from massive increases in imports, especially in sensitive sectors such as automotive and electronics; to protect geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs, including wines and spirits.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it clearly underlines the need for the eu to take into account the objectives of development cooperation in all the policies that it implements and which are likely to affect developing countries. it is a matter of fact that there are clear inconsistencies in the eu’s trade, agriculture, fisheries, climate, intellectual property rights, migration, finance, arms trade and raw materials policies. for this reason, the policy coherence for development should contribute to finding fundamental synergies among eu policies and strategies. i believe that it is also important to stress that the pcd is not merely a technical issue, but primarily a political responsibility.
in writing. − the eeas and delegations should give a clear priority to the cps by further strengthening the eu's policy dialogue with civil society organisations, local parliaments and other stakeholders, asking them to collect information on cases of inconsistency or coherence, improve references to the cps in programming documents and make them operational.
in writing. − the social clause in article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) already applies both within and outside the eu's borders. stressing the importance of establishing coordination poles for policy coherence for development also in developing countries, in order to improve the exchange of information on issues, among others, which fall outside the eu's competence, such as the socially inclusive use of income from resources or related taxes and remittances, and the impact of the so-called 'brain drain' on countries of origin, and wishing that member states should devote greater attention to the participation and integration of migrants, especially women and children, in the countries of destination, as well as to the portability of social rights, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − in view of the eu's efforts to ensure policy coherence for development (cps) and to implement policies that establish partnerships with the least developed countries based on cooperation, i believe that action is needed to promote the contribution of cps to poverty reduction. i also believe that we must act to improve trade and investment policies for the least developed countries, supporting small producers and favouring fair trade. particular attention will have to be paid to full employment, gender equality and equality of opportunity for young people, respect for workers' rights and the promotion of women's human rights in the civil, political, social, economic and cultural spheres. the european union is a key player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of goods and services.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr jean-paul gauzès, and the other members involved, including those from the associated committees, for their work on this report and the result that came out of that work. the commission is pleased by parliament’s endorsement of the 2012 european semester and the support for its growth-enhancing policies and its policies aimed at correcting macroeconomic imbalances. the commission equally welcomes the call for member states to strictly follow the rules set by the stability and growth pact and for all parties involved to speedily agree on the two pack. at the same time, the commission has taken careful note of the suggestions made in the report for improving the european semester process, for example regarding the content and focus of the annual growth survey priorities, including the role of the eu budget and the single market. the commission will issue the new annual growth survey at the end of november 2012, together with the alert mechanism report and regulation (eu) no 1176/2011. allow me to go into some more detail with regard to the positions expressed in the report in three areas. firstly, the report calls on the commission to review its current approach and to issue only one recommendation to member states in the financial assistance programme in order to bring it more into line with the europe 2020 objectives. i would like to recall that the adjustment programmes already touch on areas covered by europe 2020. the economic adjustment programmes include important growth-enhancing structural reforms covering the most urgent issues in the respective member states’ economies. the commission has deliberately decided to issue one single, country-specific recommendation for programme countries, asking them to implement the measures as laid down in the respective programmes. therefore all efforts should concentrate on programme implementation, which covers the most urgent priorities for the countries concerned. secondly, the report calls on the commission to present a framework regulation specifying the role – including timelines – of the member states and the eu institutions at the various stages of the semester cycle. however, whether a new legislative proposal in this area is opportune can only be assessed once the results of the currently ongoing negotiations on the two pack are completed and the debate on the future of emu has sufficiently advanced. thirdly, the report calls for strengthening the democratic legitimacy of eu economic governance. the commission supports the strong involvement of the european parliament in the reinforced european semester and the active role of the european parliament in the new economic dialogue. the possibility for parliament, introduced by the six pack, to conduct economic dialogues with individual member states provides an important element for a transparent process of democratic accountability in european economic governance. the commission encourages the european parliament to continue taking the economic dialogue forward with the other institutions and with individual member states, as foreseen in the six pack.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for having accepted all or most of the points in the opinion from the committee on women's rights and gender equality, of which i am vice-chairman. the economic crisis is undermining efforts in the field of gender equality: the employment rate for women is getting lower and the gender pay gap is getting bigger. the contractual guarantees of many women, mothers, and women in leadership roles or in the political, scientific, technological sectors are still precarious. adequate funding is needed for european union programmes to reduce the gender pay gap and to encourage women's access to highly qualified professions. increasing the participation of women in the labour market would make it possible to exploit some of those talents which have been hidden for many years. in the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality we have proposed uniform models for the integration of women, and above all specific measures to be taken for those categories of women who are vulnerable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the heart of the matter lies in the very title of this report, in the word 'coordination'. i would not be opposed in theory to measures to maintain a certain balance between the economic policies of the member states, because in this europe which is so badly and hastily built, the deficit of one country has direct repercussions on the others, but i am not clear how this coordination develops. i am afraid that this is more a matter of imposing a common line decided by brussels. there are too many signs that this is the case and i do not think that the solution to the crisis is to abandon fiscal policy as well: the countries which have unfortunately joined the euro have already lost all monetary independence and i do not think it is appropriate to take away even this last bit of sovereignty! in 1998, long ago, umberto bossi, the founder of my party, said that we would eventually have a financial report directly by fax from brussels. history is unfortunately proving him right, but we cannot, nor do we want to, continue to be complicit in all this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr jean-paul on the excellent work he has done on the report on the european semester, and a large part of the european parliament is taking note of it. i am sure there are criticisms, but criticisms are part of the debate, of democracy, of the debate, and i think that this is the moment of the debate also to see how we can go about saturating these criticisms. the efforts we have made so far, we have talked about the six-pack, the two-pack, we have talked about the european semester which is part of this kind of approach, and i strongly believe, however, that the honourable member has touched on some of the parts which are the grey areas of the european semester area. we must also analyse these grey areas with the commission, without any prejudice. the main part i think is that the commission should make recommendations which take account of the specificities of each country and the different starting points. i strongly support what the report says about the content of the recommendations. it is true that these very often - and there is nothing wrong with saying these things - concentrate on a limited number of areas which should be improved, greater compliance with the recommendations which must also be set by the commission and the problem on 'europe 2020' is the problem of growth. we need to give more and stronger support to european enterprises, which are the backbone of our economy. in conclusion, there is still a lot of room for improvement in this coordination, to make it more effective, but free of ideological questions and taking positions. i agree with that. the commission, the council and the member states must make a serious effort to improve the semester, because that is the real fact that emerges from the debate and the report. only in this way can we move towards a true european economic union, and this is a school of thought, a line of thought. of course, i'm not shocked if others are against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, you have heard the wide appreciation for the procedures of the six months we are discussing, but you have also realised that there are still many questions about the functioning of the relationship between the european parliament and the national parliaments. i think that this issue needs to be given some attention and it is important to set up a system of obligations and sanctions if someone tries to evade the comparison or to identify common horizons. i think that the scope of respect for the autonomy of the social partners, as has been said, in the areas of their competence, must be defined, but i also think that along with a discussion on the architecture of the system of relations and of relations, it is very important to identify priorities. in a europe which is experiencing the very serious crisis you know, the fight against poverty on the one hand and growth policies to mitigate the effects of strict policies alone, i believe that these must be placed at the centre of the relationship with the member states which must be defined through the six months.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, not for the first time today, i have no ministers today at this time. on behalf of the commission, we welcome your report and we really appreciate the efforts of the rapporteur, mrs gardiazábal. gathering wide support for your report is a test of your skill, and we need the commitment of parliament to the enhanced role of financial instruments in the next financial perspective (2014-2020) for a very simple reason. we are under huge constraints and should try to get as much as possible out of each euro of the european budget. we therefore need this multiplying effect of the other financial instruments. you are right that is not a replacement for the budget; it is a multiplying effect of the budget. but it cannot be seen as a strategy to reduce the budget or to replace the grants by loans. of course both are needed, and this is our message to the council: we need multiplying effects, given the gap between the needs and what is possibly available as our resources. but this is not a replacement for the real budget, nor is it replacement by loans and revolving funds of the grants, which are the essence of the european budget. why do we need them? because the gap is visible; because we see, in a time of crisis, a sort of risk aversion – but it is mainly about banking. banking is three-quarters of the financing in europe, which is the opposite of what happens on the other side of the atlantic where three-quarters comes from the capital markets. in europe, this is mainly about the banking system, and under the credit crunch – under present-day circumstances – there is especially a high-risk aversion towards long-term projects in infrastructure. therefore we need the involvement of the european budget to reduce the risk, to reduce the risk aversion and to finance long-term projects, especially in transportation, energy and telecoms. we will test the water now via these pilot projects. i am happy to inform you that we are about to sign an agreement with the european investment bank and to launch some interesting pilot projects under the present financial perspective (2007-2013) – again, fully in compliance with a statement in the report that it should be governed by very strict legislative budgetary rules. before authorising the launch of a financial instrument, the budgetary authority should be fully informed and, by means of ex ante evaluations, should also be fully involved in monitoring the projects and final reporting. that is why we need flexibility, which was also a point in the report. flexibility is needed to adjust to the fluctuations of the market and to the local environment in many countries of the european union. therefore, there is a need for the enhanced role of the financial instruments, which is absolutely necessary to fill the gap between what we need for europe and possibly restrained financial resources in the european budget. thank you for your cooperation. we are on the right road and this is the road to recovery, supplementing financial austerity with real growth prospects for europe.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, any argument should start from the fact that the commissioner first stressed that the budgetary resources available are very insufficient, so the few resources we have cannot be just grants, but these should be exploited in the so-called innovative financial instruments, which are then the specific funds, project bonds and so on, which of course need to be strengthened. public and private participation should be strengthened within the ppp system, which will help to implement individual financing projects by driving the physical and virtual infrastructure works of sustainable projects. if they are, it means that we can also go further and issue bonds because these, if the projects are sustainable and therefore reach a break-even at a certain point, are not debts but are long-term loans. that, commissioner, is the real growth, and we must have the courage to go beyond the budget.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as every year, this year too we are taking stock of the activities of the european ombudsman. the budget, at least this one, can certainly be described as an asset. i would remind you that the european ombudsman derives his powers from article 298 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and his main role in the network of european ombudsmen is to ensure that the right of citizens to good administration is respected and in particular that the rights guaranteed by article 41 of the charter are respected, which stipulates that every person must be treated by public institutions and public administrations in a clear, fair and, above all, rapidly evolving manner. this year, and i am referring specifically to 2011, the european ombudsman registered a decrease in the number of complaints compared to 2010. we're going from 2,667 to 2,510 complaints overall. the new feature of these complaints is that over 61%, slightly more than 61% of these complaints, were submitted using the internet tool. of this 61%, 53% was made by citizens using the form available on the european ombudsman's web portal. this is a very important issue for me as chair of the committee on petitions, which has been calling for some time for the recognition of an internet service and for the establishment of a web portal of the committee on petitions that is more responsive to citizens' requests. the number of requests for information and clarification has certainly decreased in 2011, and we all agree that this is the result of the very good guidance produced by the european ombudsman, which has succeeded in reducing the number of requests for information and clarification. the number of errors in the presentation of cases to the european ombudsman has also been reduced, i.e. the number of cases which were not formulated correctly to the ombudsman because they did not fall within his competence has been reduced, and this is certainly also due to two other media which have been used and produced by the european ombudsman's office to help and facilitate the task of citizens. last but not least, the european ombudsman also made a speech on procedures in 2011 which concerned a simplification of procedures. these interventions and the good practices put in place by the european ombudsman have certainly helped to improve the outcome of the ombudsman's work. in the total of complaints lodged by citizens, the number of complaints against the european commission remains high, and it is the largest share of the total number of complaints lodged, at 58%. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the parliament, on the other hand, has, it is worth noting, reduced the number of complaints against it by almost half, while those against the council have increased. the inquiries opened by the ombudsman were largely closed: 382 open, 318 closed, so i think it's a great performance. this activity and this is the annotation with which i close has a single node: as the ombudsman's work is carried out by all institutional actors participating in the civic network for the protection of citizens' rights who do not have the actual powers to try to implement citizens' requests in practice, the ombudsman's proceedings may end with a recommendation or, in extremely negative cases, with a critical note, but they cannot bring the answer directly to the citizen.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would really like to show my appreciation and thank you once again for your good cooperation with the ombudsman and with the committee on petitions, because it helps us to strive towards our very important goal, which is to offer a genuine culture of service from the european public administration to citizens. if we look at the statistics we see that the number of complaints is going down. i would also like to assure you that good administrative behaviour and respect for these very important principles is something which is very important to us and is part of our everyday work. there were a lot of comments concerning the transparency of the commission. i agree with you that we can always do better, and i am sure that we will do better next year than we have this year. but i am still convinced that the european civil service and the european commission is one of the most transparent public administrations you can find in europe and in the world. how are we going to improve our quality of work? we will continue with very intense internal training of our officials. we will be constantly increasing awareness of the importance of respect for the principles of good administrative behaviour and transparency. we are increasing the use of informal procedures, which very often help us to find amicable solutions without an unnecessary bureaucratic burden. we are looking harder for amicable solutions, and here we get very good advice from the ombudsman. good cooperation with you and with the good offices of the ombudsman helps us to improve our work in this particular respect. with regard to the area of transparency, here also over the course of the last couple of years a considerable effort has been made, and i think that together we have accomplished a great deal. for example, our joint transparency register is something which is not often found in the capitals of different countries in the world. i think there is something comparable in washington, and now we have something similar in vienna. we can see how this transparency register is working and attracting more and more companies to be registered. i am fully aware that i would need the support of parliament and of civil society to encourage the participation of, for example, law firms. we will very soon see how we want to tackle this issue in the report which we are preparing in which we will assess how the transparency register works. we are much more transparent than before with regard to the comitology register, showing how the expert groups are composed, their agendas and the results of their deliberations. we publish the minutes of their discussions, and this also compares very well with similar situations in most of our member states. at the same time the statistic produced by eurobarometer is a very correct one, showing the importance of transparency and how european citizens are very often disappointed. but at the same time we should also be also proud – both parliament and the commission – that we are among the most trusted institutions in the european union. if we compare, in this time of crisis, how many citizens trust the eu, the european parliament and the commission, i think that the percentage in many cases would be quite significantly higher than for trust in the national institutions. this is something which has to be remembered as well. concerning the situation of mr dalli – and i am sure that the ombudsman will respond to specific questions – i would just like to reassure all of you that in the conclusions of the olaf investigations it was very clear that his services were cleared by the olaf report. there was no impact whatsoever on the good functioning and efficient handling of the files by the dgs. this also applies to the tobacco directive. i would also like to reassure you, as i did two days ago, that the tobacco directive will be proposed without any delay. i hope that the hearing for the new commissioner is now some two or three weeks away. i would like to assure this house that the tobacco directive will be ruled on by this parliament in the current electoral period. i believe that, after we submit the proposal to you, you will all agree that it is a very ambitious one which is very important for the health of european citizens.
ombudsman. − mr president, let me thank all the members of parliament who have taken the floor and who have been good enough to speak well of the work of the european ombudsman. we are profoundly appreciative of your support and are cognisant of the fact that your support and your good work increase the responsibilities that lie on our shoulders to be able to continue to do things better and work together with the committee on petitions of the european parliament with a view to serving citizens even better. i am very grateful for that and for your encouragement. a number of meps raised the question of the low number of complainants and the high number of inadmissibles – mr jahr, mr becker and mr wałęsa. i think the important point to repeat again is that, because of the interactive guide we introduced three years ago on our website, we have now had the good result of people coming to us for the right reasons rather than the wrong reasons. this parliament had for years been insisting that we should try to bring down the number of inadmissibles. we have done it. we have done it very significantly. i just want to say that in fact this is one of the things for which we are grateful to parliament for suggesting that we do. mr boştinaru, i want to thank you very much for your comments and your support. as you know, the ‘déformation professionnelle’ of the ombudsman is to try to be fair, and in all fairness it is important for me to say that it is indeed the case that the commission has the largest number of complaints – as the commissioner said, it also accounts for 65 % of all eu civil servants – but, if you look at the star cases that the ombudsman produced last year (ten in all), five star cases for exemplary performance went to the commission. so we do have problems where we criticise the commission, and we work with the commissioner to be able to rectify maladministration, but we also have to acknowledge the areas where they actually do try, and they do very good work there. mrs auken, i am very grateful to you. you know where i stand on the issue of the regulation. i was in mrs jäätteenmäki’s home country and in your home country only two weeks ago and i had occasion to speak with mrs astola of the finnish ministry of justice precisely about how we can promote this kind of regulation on eu administrative law and how to serve citizens better. i would like to congratulate mrs prendergast first of all on the decision of her own parliament in ireland yesterday significantly to expand the mandate of the irish ombudsman and to add 140 new bodies to her remit. this was a long-overdue reform and i can only applaud it, as a colleague, and convey, through you, our happiness that this is the case. concerning your question, mrs prendergast, on the tobacco directive, the answer is that the european ombudsman, to date, has not received any complaint concerning the directive. if we were to receive a complaint, of course we would have to ensure that before coming to us the complainants had addressed olaf as the appropriate body for ensuring that the appropriate measures had been complied with – or any other kind of eu institution that might be involved, in this particular case the commission. finally, i would like once again to acknowledge commissioner šefčovič’s continuing offer regarding good administration. we take it very seriously, we rely on it, we look forward to working with you and i very much assure you that we have taken note of the increase in the cooperation of the commission in finding, through informal procedures, friendly solutions which are good for you, good for us and, above all, good for the citizen.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i very much enjoyed the debate this evening. i think it was a good demonstration of how good networks of civic cooperation can be created which lead to results: the speeches by all the members of the committee on petitions showed how much the analysis of the european ombudsman's efforts can be shared and how much they can be - and this is more important - shared in the objectives of this work. there is also undoubtedly a form of synergy and osmosis between the two bodies which helps us to draw on the best experience of each other, so we will try to borrow from the european ombudsman's experience of the computerization of services to get closer to the citizens, if not physically, through these new tools of technology and to be more efficient. the ombudsman will undoubtedly also bring our relations closer, as he has done on other occasions, by accompanying those requests from citizens which are wrongly referred to the ombudsman and which instead fall within the competence of the committee on petitions. i also take this opportunity to thank the ombudsman, who has always very correctly and timely reiterated the prerogatives of the committee on petitions by critically deferring complaints, i believe perhaps a complaint, which was made by a citizen against the behaviour of the committee on petitions that i represent, thus further confirming the linearity and transparency of our relations. i am very grateful to commissioner šefčovič for his punctual presence, for the effort he puts in every day, and i have no doubt that the wishes he has expressed are all very real and i am convinced that they will also be achievable for him. unfortunately, however, over the years i have seen that, despite the good intentions, the commission is still slow to respond to the real needs for greater simplification, greater immediacy and closer proximity that come from citizens through the requests that the ombudsman and the peti committee receive on a daily basis. it is on this not very positive note that i once again address a prayer to commissioner šefčovič, who i know is sincerely committed to the interests of the european citizens.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission's statement on eu-russia trade relations following russia's accession to the wto.
my fellow citizens! although russia has been a member of the world trade organisation since august and this is a welcome development , it must be acknowledged that it has unfortunately not fulfilled its commitments. russia continues to implement trade restrictive measures. this includes, for example, the ban on the import of animals from the european union, legislation discriminating against foreigners in public procurement, seasonal import duties on sugar, etc. russia must take immediate action in the field of intellectual property protection. both the production and the sale of counterfeit goods continue. it is not enough to work on preventing corruption. major reforms remain. it is very serious that russia has virtually stopped working on a new partnership and cooperation agreement. this agreement is of the utmost importance, it must be detailed and legally binding, it must include the requirements of european standards, it must create a legally binding energy chapter, strengthening a non-discriminatory and transparent energy market. given that some 75% of investments in russia come directly from the european union, it is important to take care of the protection of our investors when negotiating a bilateral investment agreement. today marks the 9th anniversary of the arrest of mikhail horodkovskaya and the beginning of the yukos case. the continuation of this case shows that in russia, the rule of law can be talked about as a goal for the time being, but we must do everything possible to achieve this goal. in conclusion, i would like to stress that agreements and agreements must be implemented. and our job is to get our partner russia to do that. thank you.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we welcome russia's accession to the world trade organization and we agree with the various points and indications contained in the resolution. as a member of the delegation for the countries of central asia, i would like to add another element not yet mentioned in this debate: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. i think we should reflect on the compatibility of the wto with russia's accession, on the one hand, the new bilateral agreement which the european union is negotiating with that country and then the customs union. i think that's one of the more complicated elements. we do not yet know how the customs union will develop, if it will succeed as expected in turning into a common economic area based on the four freedoms of movement that the european union has, but i believe that we must have an integrated approach with russia on the one hand and central asia on the other. it is useless to create antagonisms between these two areas, given the umbilical cord that links russia to central asia. for example, we should try to bring the customs union's standards of security and antitrust rules more and more into line with those of the european union, and i wonder what good can come of the visa abolition part of the negotiations.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, if i were to summarise this debate, i would say that it was quite clear that we all warmly welcome the accession of russia to the wto. we had – and we still have – positive expectations as to how this membership will be beneficial to our mutual relationship. but we also have to record a certain disappointment with the application of wto rules in russia. i also noted a very clear call from the honourable members of this parliament to the commission to look for constructive solutions and to make sure that russia respects wto rules. it is very important in the negotiations with our russian partners to highlight the positive benefits that the wto agreement brings to both sides. in my introductory remarks i referred to the expected eur 2.5 billion in savings for european exporters to russia thanks to the decrease of import duties. i can also say that eur 3.9 billion of additional eu exports is expected per year. in terms of the benefits this will bring to the russian side, i would claim that they will be of a similar order. this is clearly a win-win solution, and it could be a real success story for both russia and the european union if the rules are respected and correctly applied. this was mentioned by several speakers, including mrs koch-mehrin, mr scholz and mrs oomen-ruijten. in reply to mrs andersdotter, i would like to underline the fact that russia needs to apply the wto rules regarding trips - intellectual property rights - from the date of accession. the commission is, of course, obliged to monitor how compliance with these rules is ensured by the russian authorities. there was a discussion, and several comments, concerning the new agreement. it is supposed to be a wide agreement covering all areas of the very far-ranging relationship between the european union and russia. i believe that if we succeed in negotiating and agreeing the new agreement, it will help us tackle the problems which were raised by mrs vaidere, especially veterinary restrictions, procurement and breach of intellectual property rights. so we think that it is very important to negotiate and to work on this new agreement. what would be the most useful in this respect would be to pursue our bilateral path. we believe that a positive outcome of the negotiations on the new agreement would be helpful – and indeed crucial – for russia, because respect for wto rules, a good agreement, and compliance with this agreement on both the russian and european sides are key to the integration of russia into the global rules-based system, which i believe would benefit both sides. several questions were raised about what we would like to see in the new agreement. it is quite clear that we regard it as important, in addition to the usual traditional components of such an agreement, to have very clear and solid articles on trade, investment and energy provisions, because without those key components we would not be able to conclude the agreement. we want to have an all-encompassing document which will provide a real framework for our bilateral relations. in all the remarks, it was quite clear that honourable members feel a certain disappointment about the way in which the wto rules are respected by russia. there have been clear calls for the commission to act and look for ways to remedy the current problems and the current situation. i would like to repeat what i said at the beginning: we will start by trying to find agreed solutions to this problem, but, failing that, we will not hesitate to enforce our rights under the wto when they are violated. these are our rights. we have a system whereby the wto sets the rules for all the members and, if the rules are breached, the remedy should be sought and applied. it is quite clear that this is something that the european union will have to do if these infringements of the rules persist. in reply to mr mirsky, who commented on the situation and the restrictions on border crossing, i would just like to assure him that the commission is aware of the situation and that this problem will be raised in discussions with our russian partners. regarding the last comment, on the situation in georgia, which was raised by mr lisek, i would just like to underline that georgia is also a member of the wto and can use the wto system to raise this issue and to address the ban with the world trade organisation, but, as far as we know, so far it has chosen not to. to close, i would like to thank honourable members for a very good debate. i appreciate the support for the overall thrust of the commission’s policy towards russia. together with many honourable members, i would like to express the hope that, through constructive dialogue with our russian partners, we will be able to achieve greater compliance with wto rules. this would clearly be to the benefit of trade and the overall relationship between the european union and russia.
i have received a motion for a resolution at the end of the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, friday 26 october, at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes speeches of one minute.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the elections in belarus.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank honourable members for this interesting debate. as i said, i fully share the concerns expressed by members regarding the political situation in belarus. let me reassure you that, together with high representative and vice-president ashton – and i am very glad that this is actually the first occasion for her new managing director, felipe fernández de la peña, who is also dealing with belarus, to participate in this debate – we will continue to encourage the belarusian authorities to take steps to fully implement belarus’s international commitments to democratic principles and human rights. it is clear that, under these circumstances, we have every interest in seeking to increase the impact of our policies on belarus. we will continue to call for the unconditional release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners and insist that the development of bilateral relations between the european union and belarus remains conditional on progress in the field of human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles. i share your opinion that the forthcoming world ice hockey championship is an opportunity not to be missed for us to make our policy more visible and clear and to have an impact. our policy of critical engagement with belarus is a long-term challenge. the european union’s policies are principled and have the clear goal of including belarus in the family of democratic and open nations. however, we know that, for political and economic reasons, bigger changes in this country are likely to take time. we discuss our policy of critical engagement towards belarus regularly and, as you can see, our policies and messages stay calibrated and balanced. thank you very much for the views you have expressed during the debate and for the draft resolution. there have been a number of critical remarks but, in addition to the critical remarks, some concrete suggestions on which we will reflect. in a situation like this, the principled position has to be combined with creative thinking, reaching out to those who would sooner or later deliver on the change. i also very much appreciate your call in the draft resolution to strengthen the dialogue for modernisation. i believe that, with even greater involvement of the member states and with your support, we can turn this dialogue into an effective instrument for change. let me add a personal remark. time is not on the side of political prisoners, but i firmly believe that time is on the side of democratic change. change will come sooner or later. it is inevitable and it is a strong european lesson to a european country.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the elections in georgia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also believe that the relations which the european parliament is building with the other side are positive and constructive, in the light of what i have had the opportunity to observe in person during our visit to the emirates with the darp delegation of which i am a member. we have always worked in mutual respect and based our dialogue on this premise, and i therefore believe that the wording of some paragraphs of this resolution makes it overly critical, without taking into account the efforts which the emirates are making to recognise the human rights of workers and women. we are all aware of the uprisings that are going on in various countries in the arab world, i quote bahrain, i quote syria above all, but from what i have been told, i do not believe that there is a risk of degeneration as is being suggested. i believe that the european parliament has not given the government the opportunity to discuss the very critical elements of the human rights situation in the united arab emirates contained in the resolution.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'obscene' is the taliban's charge against the 14-year-old malala, who was asking to go to school and to have the right to education for pakistani girls, and the charge of obscenity is the pretext for shooting malala twice, once in the head and once in the shoulder. the taliban attack is not only motivated by religious or political reasons, but also by the suppression and erasure of basic human rights and the denial of women's dignity and their right to education. this is the civilization and the way of life that the taliban are proposing to the muslim world, with absolute disregard for their own lives and the lives of others. we obviously condemn these cowardly and cruel acts, but we would like all so-called moderate islam to raise its voice with us in condemning these crimes. to be silent would be to share and to be conniving, and that is intolerable.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the list of dramas in cambodia is very long: environmental crimes, stratospheric corruption, waste of international aid, assault on human rights activists, and a very clever dictator who plays with democracy to give himself a semblance of legitimacy and who is still there. today we also have the problem of the leader of the parliamentary opposition being banished from cambodia. i think there is another dissent in this country, which is an overly complacent international community, and sometimes, i must say, the european union as well. the commission's attitude, which was not firm enough, not energetic enough, was noted by graham watson in the delegation we had in cambodia. there is an energy in parliament with the various debates on cambodia which i would like to see reflected in the other institutions. in the context of european cooperation, i think it is important to reflect on the case of sam rainsy, who, among other things, was awarded a major human rights prize by the european people's party here in this house. maybe it's the proof of nine, trying to get him back before the election.
mr president, the adoption of this resolution coincides with the ninth anniversary of the arrest of the former chief executive officer of yukos, mikhail khodorkovsky. there is a concern that the yukos case and related criminal prosecutions of individuals overshadow russia’s reliability as a recipient of investment and a partner within the wto framework. therefore, i have proposed an oral amendment to this resolution. after consultation with other political groups, it reads as follows: ‘urges the russian government to commission an independent and impartial investigation into the yukos case’. i believe this could be another step towards building confidence in russia’s reliability as a wto partner, and i kindly ask you to support this amendment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proliferation of innovative financial instruments poses many challenges in terms of regulation, governance and monitoring of their effectiveness. the right balance must be struck between the objectives of transparency and control, and a sufficient level of effectiveness and speed of implementation. the introduction of such instruments at european level is, however, of great importance, as it is a means by which the european union, especially in times of crisis, can stimulate investment in the real economy in a way consistent with its objectives, in a context in which the continuing decline in resources allocated to the community budget is counterbalanced by the steady growth of its political ambitions.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the recommendation by mr kovács. following the conclusion of negotiations on the new eu-us agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment, a third-party certification system has been introduced in the us. this new model will prevent the principle of mutual recognition that has prevailed for the last 10 years from being maintained, as the eu's decision was to maintain the manufacturer's self-certification system in order to avoid additional costs for european companies and to support smes in particular.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr kovacs on the eu-us agreement on the coordination of energy labelling programmes for office equipment (energy star). i believe that it not only extended the validity of the previous agreement but also proved to be very effective, even the best, ex post. in fact, the programme will continue its action in the light of energy savings in the office environment. a new one is certainly the choice by the us to obtain certification through third parties and no longer by using self-certification, as was the case in the past and will continue to be the case for the eu. this will raise the costs for producers but will not alter the substance of the resolution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to conclude the agreement. it is right to extend the energy star programme, as it has been very effective in steering the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency.
in writing. − the renewal of the energy star programme in the union, based on the agreement between the us government and the eu itself, for the coordination of energy efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment, improves the energy saving performance of office equipment. i can only welcome a project which will enable us to achieve high levels of energy savings, cost control and co2 reduction. the agreement also provides for the development and implementation of tools to promote energy-efficient office equipment, improve market transparency and raise user awareness of energy efficiency. the high environmental standards and the positive results achieved by energy star in previous years are the reasons why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy star is a programme set up by the united states environmental protection agency to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment. in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement to coordinate energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. this agreement, which was renewed until 2011, provides for the implementation of the energy star programme in the eu. two separate product registration systems will be introduced: one in the eu, which maintains a system of self-certification by manufacturers, and one in the us, which has decided to introduce third-party certification. the successful conclusion of the negotiations for a new agreement to extend the energy star programme is welcomed, as the latter has proved very effective in steering the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the rubial report on innovative financial instruments in the context of the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the use of financial instruments at european level has been conceived as a means of enabling the union to stimulate the volume and quality of investment in the european economy. the commission intends to reduce the number of financial instruments in the field of internal policy, while broadening their scope and stimulating their use by simplifying and standardizing them, thus making them more accessible and more effective. this report provides useful suggestions and guidelines that specifically aim to ensure that these key resources are effectively enhanced over the period 2014-2020.
in writing. - the report by mrs eider gardiazábal rubial has the merit of proposing the introduction of innovative financial instruments to make the european budget more effective and to enhance its importance in the context of the global crisis we are going through. the use of new financial instruments at different levels, public and private, to involve all the links in the chain in the implementation process is the right approach to take when the european institutions choose to adopt new means of dealing with systemic and economic emergencies. the european budget is a highly valuable instrument, 95% of its resources being invested directly in the member states, which finance major development projects and policies for businesses, researchers, workers and students. in this respect, i believe that emphasising a proper information campaign on what the european budget produces in terms of concrete facts and actions for the benefit of 500 million european citizens is an aspect to be implemented and one that i find absolutely positive.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my vote is in favour. i agree that the european union would send a strong signal to public and private investors and to the financial markets by participating directly, either alone or together with the member states, in the capitalisation of infrastructure projects. this should ensure that its long-term policy objectives are met and would constitute a guarantee of the project's realisation.
in writing. - i would like to stress the importance of innovative financial instruments in the implementation of projects through which the union's strategic objectives are to be achieved; i am convinced of the contribution they can make, both at national and eu level, to ensuring sustainable and inclusive growth. in particular, those outlined in the europe 2020 strategy, which describe non-discriminatory instruments that can respect the principles of sound financial management, improve the quality of spending and ensure the optimal use of financial resources. in order to ensure a sufficient level of effectiveness and speed of implementation, i believe that it is necessary to ensure the simplicity and transparency of the regulatory framework of reference, so that the objectives of transparency and control of financial instruments can be effectively pursued. i am confident in the positive impact of innovative financial instruments as effective means of public support and in the hope that they will be better defined in law, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not support the 'european ombudsman's annual activity report 2011' in my vote, as it turned out to be a mere technical exposition without any reflection or analysis of particular depth and originality. the mandate of the european ombudsman under article 228 tfeu enables him to receive complaints concerning instances of maladministration in the action of the union institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. given the persistence of a high number of such cases, it is not enough to simply call on actors to comply with the code of good administrative behaviour approved by parliament in september 2011. a strong political stance is needed, leading to proposals and concrete solutions to counter this phenomenon.
in writing. - i would like to thank mrs mazzoni for the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman, which shows how highly operational and important this figure is in terms of the monitoring and control role it plays in the various fields of its activity. some of the most important figures are: in 2011, the ombudsman completed 318 inquiries, 310 of which were initiated following a complaint and 8 of which were initiated on his own initiative. 82% of complaints resulting in a survey were submitted by private citizens (253), while the remaining 18% were submitted by companies, associations and other legal entities (57). these and other data in the report are living testimony to the good work of this european institutional figure, which must continue to be protected and assisted by european legislation in the performance of its tasks.
in writing. − the annual report of the european ombudsman contains a detailed account of the institution's activities during the past year. i can only say that the figures presented are impressive: received 2 510 complaints (2 667 in 2010), opened 396 investigations (335 in 2010) and completed 318 investigations (326 in 2010); of the 2 544 complaints handled by the ombudsman in 2011, 698 (27%) fell within his mandate (744 in 2010). it is a body that acts as an intermediary between the citizen and the eu bodies, helping to identify cases of maladministration within the institutions and bodies of the european union. i am convinced of the need to safeguard respect for the law and the principles of good administration or human rights whenever an institution acts in violation of these principles through acts of bad administration. in this way, the european ombudsman contributes to the creation of a community closer to the individual and improves the efficiency of the administration. i can support with satisfaction, on the basis of the data presented, the importance of the work carried out. for these reasons, i welcome the report on the activities of the european ombudsman.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the legal basis for the mandate of the european ombudsman is article 228 of the tfeu, which empowers him to receive complaints concerning cases of maladministration in the activities of the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the union, with the exception of the court of justice of the european union in the exercise of its judicial functions. the right to have recourse to the european ombudsman is provided for in article 24 tfeu and article 43 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the ombudsman's mandate was extended to include possible cases of maladministration in the context of cfsp and esdp policy. most of the inquiries opened by the ombudsman in 2011 concerned the european commission, as the main institution of the european union whose decisions have direct consequences for citizens. the european ombudsman works closely with his counterparts in the member states. the cooperation shall be implemented within the framework of the european network of ombudsmen.
in writing. − the financial market clearly needs reform to ensure greater stability of financial markets and adequate investor protection. to this end, it is necessary to define clear and uniform trading rules on financial products that can be traded and to avoid conflicts of interest in firms that sell investment products. finally, i believe it is essential to address the risks posed by high-frequency trading systems. i therefore believe that this report is fully consistent with the current need for transparency in financial markets, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has exposed shortcomings in the functioning and transparency of financial markets. all trading venues, namely regulated markets, multilateral trading facilities and organised trading facilities, should establish transparent rules governing access to the systems.
in writing. − the mifid directive establishes a regulatory framework to regulate the provision of investment services, thereby providing a high level of protection for investors and allowing investment firms to provide their services throughout the community. directive 2004/39/ec has also increased transparency and competition in markets and improved investor protection. however, i believe that it is necessary to take into account the problems that have emerged in the recent period, when there has been increased competition between trading venues for financial instruments and the choice for investors in terms of service providers and available financial instruments has increased. the benefits of increased competition were not evenly distributed among all market participants and were not always passed on to final investors. this has rendered the provisions of the directive obsolete. the purpose of the review of the mifid directive is to update the existing rules to take account of market developments, including the financial crisis and technological developments, and to improve their effectiveness, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the marked volatility of commodity markets and price levels that seem to be unrelated to the necessary extraction costs and the balance between supply and demand in the last ten years have in fact produced devastating and lasting negative externalities, potentially far in excess of the total amount of official development assistance in the same period. a comprehensive eu strategy for sustainable development cooperation must go hand in hand with greater transparency and more effective regulation of commodity markets in the eu and globally. the commission's proposals for the recast of the markets in financial instruments directive and regulation (mifid and mifir) contain provisions explicitly aimed at addressing the need to strengthen the supervision and regulation of financial markets related to commodities. three general issues need to be addressed by the european parliament in the context of the mifid/mifir review: - strict limitations on exemptions from mifid, in order to include all commodity market players in the scope of the regulation. - strengthening of the provisions on position limits. - strengthening the powers of regulatory authorities to intervene in specific products or activities.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we should ensure that as many transactions as possible which are not carried out on regulated trading venues are carried out through organised systems subject to appropriate transparency requirements, while ensuring that large-scale and irregular transactions can be concluded. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - the global dimension of the financial crisis and its consequences for banks, businesses, workers and governments requires us to look with particular clarity at the need for transparency in financial markets in order to reinvigorate the financial system. for many years the lack of transparency has played a very asymmetrical role, unbalanced in favour of the strong side of the market and very little protective of the saver. the self-regulation of intermediaries has also proved to be a failure, undermining the very concept of a market. all this leads me to emphasize the importance of a single set of rules governing all financial institutions in order to ensure legal certainty and simplify existing regulation. the financial crisis is also, if not above all, a crisis of confidence, and confidence needs to be rebuilt with rules, transparency, justice. i am convinced that community legislation represents an unmissable opportunity to rebuild confidence and to contribute in a lasting way to facilitating the exit from the present very serious crisis. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the development of commodity markets is of crucial importance and must be closely monitored and regulated if we are to avoid dramatic situations. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid, 2004/39/ec), which has been in force since november 2007, is one of the cornerstones of eu financial regulation; however, a revision of the current mifid is necessary to correct its deficiencies. the main objectives of the mifid review should be: - increase transparency and oversight of less regulated markets; - reduce the risks of market disorder and systemic risk; - improve investor protection and restore confidence; - improve the efficiency of financial markets and reduce unnecessary costs for participants; - ensure both greater transparency and better regulation of financial markets.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the gauzès report on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, which aims to coordinate ex ante the economic and budgetary policies of the member states of the euro area, seeking to ensure financial coherence between the structural policies of each country. i believe that the measures proposed in this report are not at all appropriate to deal with the economic crisis in europe and to ensure the stability of the markets.
in writing. − the european semester and the stability and growth pact are a powerful system of economic and fiscal coordination for member states. i congratulate my colleague, mr jean-paul gauzès, on his work. the resolution takes stock of the various proposals for economic policy coordination agreed at eu level and stresses that many member states, national parliaments, social partners and civil society have not been involved in the european semester. i agree . the system needs to become more political, more democratic and more involved. in recognition of the fact that cost reduction and control of expenditure are still important objectives, today's vote shows that we are calling for greater control by the european parliament and national parliaments. the objective of economic growth is better taken into account. i hope that the commission will take steps to involve the various parliaments more closely in the preparation of the proposals and that a new mechanism will be created for the joint management of public finances and the macroeconomic situation in the member states.
in writing. − the guidelines for the european semester of economic policies emphasise certain issues which are important for the financial, economic and social future of our union. stabilising the financial system in the euro area, in order to facilitate the creation of a genuine economic and monetary union, is one of the necessary steps to implement the europe 2020 strategy. this action, as well as other proposals in the report, is necessary to restore stability and credibility at the global level and with our strategic partners. it is also important that economic and financial stabilisation coincides with a renewed focus on social cohesion, which also means focusing on research to improve employment data and business competitiveness.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european semester is the appropriate instrument to ensure effective economic governance of the euro area member states, which are bound by a common responsibility, as it links multilateral surveillance of macroeconomic and budgetary policies to the implementation of the european strategy for growth and employment set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i believe that coordination of economic and employment policies is necessary to promote sustainable and inclusive growth. the european semester is an opportunity to foster a coherent approach to the development of new economic, employment and governance policies. it is necessary to encourage, through concrete action, a process which will enable us to face the challenges of poverty, social exclusion and unemployment. i would also like to stress the need for the eu to become a major player in the world economy by correcting the macroeconomic imbalances that characterize the euro area by promoting the single market, competitiveness and the social welfare state. i welcome the prospects for improvement in the structural reform projects aimed primarily at promoting social cohesion, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − the european semester is primarily a tool for coordinating national budgets and reform programmes of the member states. in the present situation of budgetary constraints in all member states, the budget of the european union must play an anti-cyclical role. by its driving and leveraging effect, in particular in areas of inclusive and sustainable growth such as cohesion policy and regional policy, it contributes to promoting growth and improving competitiveness. during this 2012 european semester, a very important agreement was reached to promote the financing of key infrastructure projects that can generate growth in the member states, in the transport and energy sectors.
in writing. − the russian accession to the wto is a remarkable achievement for the country’s economic development and a significant opportunity for exporters and investors around the world. russia, with a population of 140 million, is the last major world economy to join the organisation. its membership ends the anomaly of having russia, a leading oil and natural gas exporter and a permanent member of the united nations security council, outside the world trade system. the world bank estimates that russia will gain between usd 53 and usd 177 billion per year because of wto membership, reducing poverty and raising the living standards of millions of people. i also would like to underline that this accession is a further step in improving the bilateral eu-russia relationship. the eu and russia are interdependent trading partners and for the first time both entities will be bound by multilateral rules and obligations for their mutual trade. for these reasons, i value the possibility of concluding a new eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement as a further opportunity to contribute to an enhanced partnership for both.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the positive assessment of russia's accession to the wto, which was ratified by the russian state duma on 10 july 2012. russia's accession to the multilateral trading system and its rules is a major step towards strengthening eu-russia bilateral relations.
in writing. - last december, after 18 years of negotiations, the russian federation also joined the world trade organisation (wto). this resolution sets out some guidelines for regulating trade relations between the european union and russia, highlighting some key points which i fully agree with. firstly, there must be relations based on the principle of reciprocity, which should apply in a wide range of areas, from access to public procurement, to the recognition of intellectual property rights, to the protection of agricultural origin and quality marks. russia is a strategic partner for europe, especially in our energy supply: i therefore believe that we must establish common rules to regulate trade between these two vast markets, which still have a lot of untapped potential, which if properly exploited could open up new horizons and new prospects for many of our companies and products.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, russia's accession to the wto after 18 years of difficult negotiations is an important event, both from a historical, economic and commercial point of view. the choice of russia is also an advantage for the eu, considering that we represent its main source of imports and are a key partner for investment. this linking of russia to the multilateral trading system is a further step towards strengthening eu-russia bilateral relations. nevertheless, many problems remain to be solved: the main ones being the elimination of a number of potentially restrictive trade measures, preferential rules on public procurement and the introduction of seasonal duties on imports of certain types of sugar; the commission has also proposed a new regulation on vehicle recycling. provisional bans, temporary unilateral tariff increases, protectionist measures and barriers to open and fair trade must be eliminated. in addition, there are infringements and measures concerning intellectual property rights. it is also a matter of moving swiftly towards the establishment of the rule of law, since certain recent convictions and sentences are a threat to democracy. economic modernization has many facets and all must be considered by russia to enhance the new bilateral relations with europe.
in writing. − after 18 years of negotiations, russia joins the world trade organisation (wto) as its 156th member. i think that this accession is an important step for the eu, considering that the total value of trade in goods between the two countries in 2011 amounted to 308 billion euros. the eu is russia's main trading partner and russia is the eu's third largest trading partner. through russia's accession to the wto, mutual trade and trade activities will be bound by multilateral rules and obligations. i see this as an event which can provide great opportunities for russian and european businesses, facilitating trade and investment and shedding new light on russia's position in the world economy. this partnership will have a positive impact on access to the market for goods and services. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because, despite some improvements on the electoral law, according to the international election observation mission of the osce/odihr, in these parliamentary elections the citizens’ rights to associate, stand as candidates, and express themselves freely were not respected. the belarusian authorities ignored the numerous calls of the international community, and a large number of democratic opposition candidates were denied registration on the grounds of minor inaccuracies or through the invalidation of ballot-access signatures. with this resolution we ask the belarusian authorities to upgrade the electoral legislation and conduct new free and fair parliamentary elections in line with international standards. in addition, we call on the council and the commission to support initiatives aimed at developing belarusian civil society, which could result in increasing citizens’ political participation, and raise awareness of the need for change. i believe that any attempt to empower belarusian citizens is a vital milestone and the most effective way towards democracy and rule of law in belarus.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the detention of journalists is a clear way of controlling the free flow of information and preventing journalists from carrying out their work regularly, in violation of one of the most important fundamental freedoms, freedom of expression. i am voting in favour of this because i agree with the firm condemnation of such attitudes.
in writing. − the continuing human rights violations in the run-up to the elections in belarus require the eu to act to prevent the disregard of fundamental values, including democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i believe that we can no longer delay the adoption of concrete measures to ensure that the electoral process is conducted properly and in accordance with international standards. the intensification of repression against the opposition through deplorable media censorship excludes citizens from enjoying the political rights guaranteed by the belarusian constitution itself as well as universal and fundamental human rights. in calling for action to assist the democratization process in the country, i express my vote in favour of the
in writing. − as one of the eu’s foreign policy goals is to enhance relations with georgia, with this text we commend its strong commitment to democratic standards during the parliamentary elections held on 1 october 2012. georgia is one of the founding members of the eastern partnership, which is based on a community of values and on principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. for this reason i hope for a fast conclusion of the negotiations for the new association agreement between the eu and georgia. i also praise the eu’s commitment to the objective of visa-free travel, and expect the parties to make substantial progress in this respect.
in writing. - i welcome the conduct of the elections in georgia, which were conducted in a peaceful and orderly manner, even though the opposition won the election. i believe that we can speak of a strong signal that georgia is changing, starting with free elections that meet international standards. this is a fundamental step in the process of european integration. in view of the results achieved, i believe that the eu should encourage relations with georgia in order to promote the affirmation of democratic values and respect for fundamental freedoms. i am confident that the negotiations will be successful and that the association agreement will be implemented in line with the country's european aspirations, which is essential for the continuation of economic, social and political reforms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the committee on industry, research and energy we have tabled an oral question with debate to this house, which will be dealt with tomorrow afternoon. the itre committee's proposal was adopted unanimously by 44 members out of 44 present, and it was also clear at that time that it would be useful to call for a resolution. i know that the bureau did not at first think it was acceptable to accept our proposal: i would like to ask the house and you, mr president, if it is possible to revise this position, because we believe that europe is going through a very difficult time in many sectors, but in the steel industry in particular, as employment in this sector fell by 10.6% in 2011 and this year there is talk of another -10.4%. for this reason i think it would be useful for all of us to send a signal to the commission and to europe if, after tomorrow's debate, we could also envisage adopting a resolution by december.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is right to vote on the resolution - the content will depend on a number of factors - but i am against the vote being held in december. i am therefore in favour, but i think that we should vote on this report in view of the urgency.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at a time when talk of greater european integration sounds like a provocation to some nostalgic nationalists, we are about to vote on the revision of a regulation which forms the basis of the difficult but necessary process of harmonization and approximation of national legal systems. let me therefore congratulate mr zwiefka on his excellent work and on having succeeded, after some two years of difficult negotiations, in closing a process of revision of a regulation which is fundamental for the citizens of the union. brussels 1 lays down very important provisions to ensure wide access to justice and equal treatment before the competent courts within the european union. it lays down common rules in civil and commercial matters, clarifying which court has jurisdiction in crossborder disputes and making judgments given in the various states enforceable. the amendments to the regulation are necessary in order to give effect to the desire to create a european area of justice, which promotes legal certainty and predictability of decisions, thereby facilitating transnational exchanges and strengthening the single market. in this context, i am of the opinion that progress towards ever deeper harmonisation of substantive law rules must proceed with due caution and care in order to ensure legal certainty and protect the least-favoured parties. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's approach in favour of consumers, who will benefit from the principle of protecting the weaker party. a principle according to which, in a legal dispute between consumers and businesses, the consumer will always have the choice of going to a court in the member state in which he is domiciled. similarly, i share the cautious approach of my colleague zwiefka to the abolition of the exequatur: if, on the one hand, the abolition of the exequatur would make it possible to further speed up the recognition of judgments, on the other hand, i believe it is necessary to maintain measures to safeguard the rights of the accused. it is therefore necessary that the latter should have the possibility to challenge a decision if their right to a fair trial has been infringed and if the decision is contrary to public policy in the state of reference. i would like to conclude by extending my congratulations to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i hope that we will reach a broad interinstitutional and political consensus on a regulation which will be the basis of judicial cooperation in civil matters and the political determination underlying the process of european integration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president reding, i congratulate the rapporteur on the conclusion of this complex dossier, which comes at the end of a long and complex debate and finally sees an agreement with the council and which fully reflects the position of parliament since the abolition of the so-called exequatur without exception. this is a particularly important step, because it effectively abolishes an intermediate judicial procedure which, among other things, has proved to be a mere formality and reduces the costs and time of crossborder disputes. there will certainly be greater protection for citizens who can bring disputes against companies which are also active in third countries before the courts of their own country. in particular, there will be better agreement on the choice of the appropriate forum to prevent so-called unfair procedural tactics. this is important progress in further facilitating the free movement of decisions and, above all, in ensuring better access to justice, less bureaucracy, less waste of time and money, and more secure and accessible rules. i believe that in times of crisis, citizens, households and businesses can greatly appreciate this reduction in red tape and simplification of procedures.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this proposal is indeed a major reform that this parliament and all the institutions should be proud of, because it will enable us to build bridges between the different judicial systems in our member states. i think that this is an important step, even if it was not possible to agree on everything, for instance arbitration or jurisdiction rules applied to industrial action. but it is certainly an important step in the right direction, and other steps will follow. i also thank those colleagues who have underlined how long the discussion on such subjects has already been going on, with no possibility of moving forward until we got the treaty of lisbon, which allowed us to take the steps which are needed in order to build up the contributions of all systems in all member states in a way that can be taken seriously. we are putting into practice a principle of ‘full faith and credit’ in the mutual recognition of judicial decisions. this means that we recognise and implement decisions by the national courts, ensuring that they are implemented in another jurisdiction as if they were being implemented domestically. that is what mutual recognition is about and that is what we need if we want to have freedom of movement, not only of goods and services, but also of citizens and of judicial decisions. this project which you have put on the table today will really benefit citizens and businesses and, historically speaking, it will also be one of those important steps in order to have a real continent of justice tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the committee on legal affairs for having raised this very important question because we all know that parental child abduction is a tragedy that has very often substantial long-term consequences for the child. the prevention of child abduction should therefore be a central part of eu policy to promote the rights of the child and, in international cases, multilateral rules are key to ensuring the protection of children. since 2007 the european union has been a full member of the hague conference on private international law and in that context the union supports the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and encourages third states to accede to it. to date there are 87 contracting parties to the hague convention, including all the eu member states. the convention establishes a system of cooperation between the contracting parties to restore the status quo ante of the wrongfully removed or retained child, but for these systems to operate an explicit declaration of acceptance is necessary and this is why the commission last year presented a package of proposals for the eu’s acceptance of the accession of eight new contracting parties to the convention, including key partners such as russia and morocco. the adoption of such proposals would ensure that all member states have the possibility to use the hague mechanism with all the contracting parties of the convention for very concrete child abduction cases; this would be in the best interest of children and it would also respect the principle of the unity and external representation of the european union. i really do regret that this package has been blocked in the council for almost a year. in practice this means, for example, that singapore’s accession has been accepted by 10 member states, morocco’s by 14 and seychelles’ by 18 member states. it also means that after having promoted russia’s accession for many years and having finally persuaded russia to accede, the european union as a whole is now not able to accept this accession and the russian authorities are of course raising this with us in the regular high-level meetings we have. i deeply regret that despite their declarations of intent, the member states as a whole have so far failed to show the sensitivity and the political will which are needed in order to tackle the current fragmented situation in the field of international child abduction. i am afraid that we may need to ask the court of justice to deliver a verdict on this institutional dispute on competences which has very undesirable consequences. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms lichtenberger, for having supported the commission’s proposal and the committee on legal affairs as a whole for having worked on this. we share the same urgent need to protect children, prevent child abductions and minimise the distress that families suffer due to the legal uncertainty and the lack of a simple and unified procedure at eu level in this matter. i really regret that we are fighting about procedures instead of fighting for the good of the child.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur and vice-president reding, starting with the fact that: in recent years, there has been a gradual and positive increase in the movement of people. as a result, marriages and unions are increasing, as are divorces and separations of bi-national couples. some facts: some 300 000 couples of different nationalities marry each year in europe. about half of these marriages end in divorce or separation; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. this is why the hague convention, signed by 87 countries and all the member states of the european union, is important: constitutes one of the most important multilateral agreements for the protection of children; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a temporary stay of up to three months for children who are in need of special care. these are rules that protect minor children from the ravages of conflict, in which these children risk becoming the real victims. i find it particularly serious and odious that the procedure for the accession of eight countries to the hague convention is being blocked by the council. in recent weeks alone there have been, just to give an example, new cases of international child abduction involving russia, which is one of the countries covered by the declaration of acceptance; the european union and its member states have been waiting for a long time for russia to join. in my view, the family is a core value of the society of the member states of the european union and must be helped and defended by the institutions, even and especially at the moment when it enters into crisis, with the primary aim of protecting the best interests of the child. the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of minors against the dangers of ionizing radiation is a serious matter. in conclusion, also as the european parliament's mediator in cases of international abduction, i know that a wide range of situations arise precisely from the uncertainty of the applicable law, from conflicts of jurisdiction and from the lack of knowledge and awareness of the rights and duties of bi-national couples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already spoken in this house about the dangerous course the city of brussels has taken, and some of the events of the last few weeks are even more alarming. last october, representatives of islamist parties were elected in two municipalities of the belgian capital, and they refer directly to islamic law, which they would like to see applied in europe as well. the signal from the city was not the best, if the rumors that the traditional christmas tree will not be installed in the grand place this year to avoid offending different religious sensibilities are true. i wonder where we're going with this? in one town in my region, tuscany, a mayor even wants to ban the display of the crucifix in certain public places. it is not by betraying and trampling on our history, our culture and our traditions that we do a favour to those who come to us as guests and who should be treated as such: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question, and i hope that he will give us a clear answer. one people, europe is like a tree: without roots it is destined to die, like the christmas tree that brussels wants to take down.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are talking about is very important and it is just as useful that the text proposed for comment on the green paper has focused on the points concerning privacy, concerning security of payments, concerning training activities so that users can also have the necessary assurances. i would like to stress, however, a specific point, madam commissioner, namely the interbank commissions, especially the multilateral commissions. today there are very significant differences between countries and in some cases these values are even particularly high. this has the effect of firstly penalizing users and therefore consumers, but also of being an objective obstacle to market development. for this reason, i think it is very important to envisage harmonization of these committees at the outset and then gradually to move away from them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a phenomenon which has grown enormously in recent years, with potential benefits for the economy and, indeed, with great risks and with great damage to many people and many families who have been affected by an activity which is not always controlled and have been attracted by hypothetical benefits which have never materialized. so i think it's very important, first of all, to know the phenomenon and then to control it, step by step, its natural evolution. so, transaction tracking is one of the central points, perhaps the most delicate and important issue: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, because it is strange that we are engaged in a discussion, although useful, on banking supervision by the european central bank and at the same time we do not take adequate account of the real phenomena that are taking place and that are affecting consumers.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank in particular mr el khadraoui who coordinated this report, but also other members for an important contribution to the debate and for emphasising that regulators should not forget some actors and entities commonly designated under the term ‘shadow banking sector’. the views expressed in the parliament report are in line with the commission’s concerns and the objectives: firstly, to strengthen the resilience capacities of the global financial sector and, secondly, to reduce regulatory arbitrage possibilities. i am glad to share these concerns with you. your concrete request to act reinforces our willingness to keep these issues very high on the commission’s agenda. what do we mean by shadow banking? shadow banking comprises financial entities or activities which carry out credit intermediation activities outside the regulated sector. in practice, risks linked to these activities were observed in 2008, when special purpose vehicles were purchased and then securitised illiquid assets and subprime mortgages were converted into assets such as collateralised debt obligations. these assets were bought by many investors worldwide and then turned out to be worthless and illiquid. unfortunately, we all now know the consequences of such strategies. why should regulators focus on the shadow banking sector? firstly, this sector constitutes a very large amount of financial activities. the fsb has roughly estimated the size of global shadow banking at around eur 46 trillion in 2010 having increased from eur 21 trillion in 2002. secondly, the sector is highly interlinked with the regulated sector and especially with banks. potential contagion effects are high and could materialise very quickly, with an impact on the whole economy. for instance, when money market funds suffered from financial pressures, they suddenly had to stop the investments in short instruments issued by banks and non-financial corporations. as a result, there was a credit crunch in this market. finally, at the same time that regulators are strongly strengthening potential rules for banks – crr, crd 4 – it would be highly undesirable to keep some actors or entities outside the supervisory oversight. i would directly generate regulatory arbitrage opportunities and give incentives for financial entities to develop risky activities in less regulated areas of shadow banking. for all these reasons the commission drafted a green paper on shadow banking to identify the appropriate measures to regulate these risks in europe. it is key to working in a consistent way with our g20 and financial stability board partners, while adjusting our work to specific european issues. the european systemic risk board contribution to this debate will be very helpful for the commission, as well as all the contributions to the green paper that have been received. in early 2013, the commission will present a roadmap on shadow banking in the eu focusing on three priorities: firstly, the strengthening of transparency and data collection and monitoring; secondly, money market funds, and, thirdly, strengthening policies in the field of repo and securities lending transactions. i thank parliament for its support, through this excellent report, for the commission’s work to strengthen our financial sector, to reduce systemic risk and to reduce the scope for regulatory arbitrage. i understand your request that the commission acts on the shadow banking sector. this is a clear signal and we will act on it in the coming months.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, 23 years after the un convention on the rights of the child, the internet is becoming the new frontier for protecting and promoting the rights of children, because of the growing penetration of the internet among european children and adolescents, a kind of symbiosis that shapes their personality and their way of relating to the outside world. the average age of first internet access a few years ago was around nine, but today digital natives are taking their first steps on the internet before they can read or write. children under 16 use computers to study, play games, watch videos, download videos and music, share files, visit chat rooms, blogs and virtual worlds. but most kids between the ages of 9 and 16 are registered on a social network with their profile; many present with fictitious identities, and a quarter of teenagers report being older than their real age. 12% of 9-12 year olds say they have been harassed, in particular, by bullying for 40% and by sexual content and approaches for 25%. so there are opportunities and risks on the net: the network is now indispensable for the social, educational and occupational integration of children, but the european institutions and the member states must work to ensure that children have access to education, information, rules for safe navigation and the responsibility of operators, businesses and educators. the report proposes a holistic approach to the promotion and protection of children's rights online. the exchange with the various political groups in the cult committee and the shadow rapporteurs, for which i am grateful, has made it possible to reach a compromise text which is broadly satisfactory, even though it is a matter on which there are different sensitivities and orientations. the cooperation of the libe committee and its rapporteur, anna hedh, was significant. the report welcomes and complements, with precise guidelines, the commission's recent communication on a safer internet for children. our aim was to balance the fundamental rights of the child in the digital world, the right to access education, the right to protection and the right to digital citizenship, in a new governance that puts the child's best interests as a person in training and as a european citizen at the centre on the basis of article 24 of the european charter and the treaty. in the area of governance, we ask the commission to integrate the rights of the child across all eu policies that refer to the network, to refinance specific programmes such as safer internet on the basis of reporting and monitoring, and to take appropriate measures also through the internet and to coordinate the implementation of the codes of conduct and the ceo coalition initiative. we also agree with the commission's proposal to intervene by means of legislation if the current self-regulatory codes are not adopted. as regards access to the internet in peace and security, we propose to support measures for an educational alliance between families, schools, associations and media and audiovisual services, to integrate these skills into school curricula and the training of educators and adults; the supervision of the marketing and advertising of harmful products online; the exchange of good practices on the role of non-formal education in the dissemination of positive and safe practices among adolescents in the network; the access of minors to pluralistic, quality and secure digital content in school curricula and services and, in particular, in the public media service. as regards the right to protection, the report clearly distinguishes between illegal content and inappropriate and dangerous content. for dangerous and inappropriate aspects, we call for actions to protect identity and privacy; preventing early exposure to sexuality, grooming, inappropriate behavior, including towards other minors, such as cyberbullying and sexting. we also ask the commission to support the initiative to classify inappropriate content and, in general, all technical innovations that can guide parents and children; we support the proposal by commissioner reding on the protection of personal data, privacy, the right to be forgotten, with specific measures on minors, including a parental consent requirement for the processing of their data. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of personal data and the protection of privacy. finally, we encourage - and ask the commission to encourage - all those forms in the member states that can support digital citizenship, which is crucial for the development of an intelligent and inclusive union and for civic participation, including through the network, by minors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the text of mrs costa's report on the protection of minors in the digital world, because the proportion of young seafarers is constantly increasing. i believe it is essential to protect children from those sites with harmful content with strong connotations of violence, racism and discrimination. in addition, the presence of child pornography sites, which can put the lives of the youngest at risk, and of persons who attempt to seduce minors should not be underestimated. the school is called upon to train minors in the practical and critical use of digital network technologies. training enables young people to master digital skills, which are recognised as one of the eight key skills needed by those living in a knowledge-based society. society shares this responsibility with the school, aware of the social and economic benefits of a critical, active and safe use of digital media by minors, against a use that generates addiction ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs costa's report is excellent, and it continues the work done on the directive on the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography online, which i was rapporteur for. the first priority, in my view, is to bridge the generation gap in technology between adults who sometimes struggle to send text messages, and children who are native to the technology age. so more conscious, responsible and safe use shared with adults: teachers, educators, etc. finally, it is useful to overcome the fragmentation of legislation on the protection of minors in the digital world and to address the cultural and legal differences between member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs costa's excellent report has dealt appropriately with the wide range of issues affecting the rights of children in this area. i think it is important - indeed useful - to stress some of the points you have made. the first is to re-propose the rights, especially of children and minors, always and in any case, because they are today among the most exposed and at risk in the whole system of european society, in general modern society. the second is transversal: the european union must not forget these issues and rights in all its actions, and must never regard them as marginal. the third aspect is that of training, especially the training of trainers: adults have an important role in guiding and supporting their children's activities.
member of the commission. − mr president, first i would like to express the commission’s thanks to mrs collin-langen for preparing, on behalf of parliament, the resolution on the implementation of the consumer credit directive in the european union. this resolution is important because it represents the voice of european citizens on the important issue of borrowing, which is a sensitive area for individuals and for the european economy. while borrowing helps in everyday life, its use can also be a source of problems if not managed in an adequate manner. this is particularly relevant in the context of the current economic crisis. the current eu legislation, the consumer credit directive, adopted in 2008, intends not only to enhance the single market for consumer credit, but also to ensure a high level of consumer protection. the commission recognises the main message of the draft resolution which points to the fact that the consumer credit directive is not yet fully implemented in the member states. we also welcome the opportunity for advertising and marketing practices to be strictly monitored and for consumers to obtain adequate explanation regarding the risk they take when entering into a credit agreement. in line with the resolution there is certainly room for work by the commission, in close cooperation with the member states, to improve the implementation and enforcement of this important piece of legislation. the commission is currently checking that the consumer credit directive has been correctly transposed into national legislation by the member states. in 2013 the commission will organise dedicated meetings with the member states in order to discuss concrete issues relating to the implementation and enforcement of the directive. in line with the requirements of the directive, the commission is currently preparing a report on its implementation which is due to be published in june 2013. i can inform members that, also for 2013, the commission is planning a specific action in selected member states aimed at further empowering consumers through awareness raising and education on the rights granted to them by the consumer credit directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in europe we are witnessing a steady deterioration in the unemployment rate for those under 35 years of age, which has reached almost 25% and in some member states over 50%. the young cannot bear the costs of the crisis. so, while it is true that we cannot escape the measures of budgetary discipline and consolidation, it is also true that we must have a concrete and ambitious investment strategy, starting with those for education and community programmes such as erasmus. the work done by mrs jazłowiecka on the social investment pact and the european youth guarantee, which guarantees every young person the right to work, to apprenticeship and to training, is therefore excellent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report proposes common objectives, such as the fight against unemployment, the reintegration of the unemployed, the revival of small and mediumsized enterprises, the guarantee of secure pension systems, but it does not propose economic measures to deal with them. for example, it does not go into the question of which funds the member states should use to deal with the crisis, nor does it criticize the european commission's unfortunate choice to finance banks without using the funds allocated to economic recovery, thus allowing credit institutions, instead of helping businesses and households, to buy government bonds, guaranteeing a certain and practically risk-free profit. it has therefore chosen, in a time of crisis such as this, to finance the banks rather than to help the economic fabric to recover. a good proposal would have been to ask the commission to propose that the ban on direct state aid by the ecb be lifted. i shall abstain, because the report ends up being a simple declaration of intent, acceptable, but devoid of content and decisive proposals.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms jazłowiecka, for this timely report. the crisis and long-term structural challenges such as demographic ageing do indeed require sustained but effective and efficient investment in our human capital. deepening inequalities and increasing poverty and exclusion hamper growth and threaten both our social cohesion and the sustainability of our public finances. that is why the commission included a social investment package for growth and cohesion in its 2013 annual work programme. the package is the commission’s response to the challenges arising from the rapid demographic changes exacerbated by the current crisis. this translates, in particular, into difficulty in meeting the europe 2020 strategy target of reducing by 20 million the number of people living in poverty or social exclusion by 2020. the commission agrees on the need, highlighted in the social investment pact, for public policies that prepare people to adapt to societal and economic challenges. for this to happen, sustained investment in our human capital to raise our competitiveness must go hand in hand with social inclusion and proper social protection. by investing in social policies that empower people from an early age, strengthen their capability to cope with risks and enhance their opportunities to participate in society and the labour market, we can anticipate and prepare rather than simply repair. the commission shares the view that better alignment of guidance, assessment and support for member states’ reforms is needed, which acknowledges the interconditionalities of our social and economic policies. finally, the commission welcomes the balanced approach of the social investment pact concerning the need to tackle both short- and medium- to longer-term challenges. these challenges call for a broad range of actions, including the identification and elimination of inefficiencies in social protection systems and the strengthening of their activating and investment orientation. the commission will take parliament’s resolution duly into account when preparing the social investment package and is looking forward to further dialogue to enrich its thinking and nourish the future development of social policy.
in writing. in recent years, most responses to the financial and economic crisis have been based on objectives aimed at restoring the sustainability of public finances, which is a key element for the union's economy. i believe, however, that the negative effects that such austerity measures may have on employment and competitiveness in europe should not be overlooked and that they should be complemented by measures to promote employment, such as targeted social investment. the already complex situation of the labour market in europe is further aggravated by problems concerning education systems and the ageing of the population. on the one hand, the educational outcomes in the union are not adapted to the increasing intensity of specialised jobs required by the market, and on the other hand, due to the ageing of the population, the number of people entering the labour market is decreasing: this demographic trend will have serious repercussions on the labour market, economic growth potential and public savings. i believe that in order to restore sustainable growth in europe, it is imperative to respond to these challenges also with the help of targeted social investments aimed at preparing society to manage the transition to more flexible labour markets, to restore a suitable level of employment in the future and to improve europe's competitiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the social economy has a high degree of resilience to crises and robustness in terms of business models, and all the requirements for the objectives of the 2020 strategy. support for social enterprises brings economic benefits, but it is above all the nature of their activities and their modus operandi that favours the creation of a society, a more democratic working environment and employment, which is active, cohesive, supportive and capable of contributing to job creation. actions to improve the legal and fiscal environment and a european social label - the principle of the most economically advantageous tender rather than the lowest price in public procurement - can therefore help to achieve financial independence and create an eco-social and highly innovative market economy. i therefore congratulate mr becker on his excellent work.
member of the commission. - mr president, good evening to each and every one of you, thank you to mr becker and to each and every one of the speakers in this debate on what i believe is an important subject, and on which we have worked very hard over the last few months, with my colleagues antonio tajani and lászló andor, to draw up this roadmap on social entrepreneurship. we know that this represents several points of european gdp, through these companies, in all the diversity of their status among our 27 countries of the european union, and several million jobs with a real capacity for innovation, engagement and investment. mr becker, the report you are presenting is extremely important because it consolidates the approach we have taken on many lines and initiatives. we will continue with the same determination, with the same tenacity. we are moving forward first on the issue of funding, since - as you know - we proposed in october 2011 that social enterprises, the solidarity economy, could be a priority for investment in the next generation of structural funds for the period 2014-2020. but of course this is a commission proposal which still has to be approved by the council and parliament. i am also pleased to note that the inclusion of social enterprises in our proposed programme for social change and innovation has now received very broad agreement. it was adopted on 6 october last. in december we also modernised the package on state aid for services of general interest by adopting measures favouring social enterprises when they provide a social service. as regards mrs regner private financing, with this report mr becker you are supporting the draft regulation on the european social entrepreneurship fund, which was proposed by the commission on 7 december. mrs regner, this is private saving and if i have proposed this new instrument, it is not to use public funds, it is simply so that, when this happens, private investors, people who manage private savings, want to invest in a field or in companies, for example, start-ups, which have a social vocation, there is a facility to collect this private savings and direct it towards a goal of a solidarity economy. it is therefore not in contradiction with all sorts of other initiatives which sometimes involve public funds. i hope that we can reach an agreement on this social entrepreneurship fund; we are really in the last strait and i hope that we can find a solution, including on the issue of tax havens, if everyone in the council and parliament is willing to compromise, provided that it is a dynamic compromise. as far as the legal framework is concerned, beyond the financial issues, i know that parliament is committed to the idea of a european association status. i am also a member of the european parliament and i would simply point out, for the sake of caution, that in 1991 a previous commission proposal was blocked in the council and was therefore withdrawn. we have made progress, ladies and gentlemen, on another subject which i was keen to discuss, namely the statute of the european foundation, since 8 february 2012; this is a first step towards making progress on this subject and i hope we can make progress. in any case, i recently met all the major players in the european foundations, in all their diversity, who support our initiative. i would also like to mention the work we have started on the modernisation of the public procurement directives. here too, it is a regulatory framework which can contribute to the growth of social entrepreneurship if the rules you adopt - i hope - facilitate the qualification of public contracts, both for social inclusion, innovation and environmental protection. as you know, work on our proposals is now well under way and i hope that in the coming weeks we can reach agreement on this new, simpler and more qualified public procurement framework. but these initiatives are not the end of the story. we still have a lot of work to do. that is why, with the support of my colleagues tajani and andor, we wanted the single market act ii, the 12 new key proposals we are going to put on the table, to include a lever for consumer protection, innovation and social cohesion. we will, in the context of this single market act ii, work on innovative tools for measuring the impact of social enterprises. at the same time, we are continuing to screen and photograph social enterprises in all their diversity in the 27 countries of the european union. as regards the impact of social enterprises, we will thus have the means of strengthening their reliability with investors and this is also a project that mr becker's report highlights. we must do everything possible, beyond this regulatory framework and this financial facility, to increase the visibility, knowledge, exchange of good practice, social enterprises in europe, as you ask, studies, enrolment in erasmus university programmes, training and the best use of european programmes. we are not alone in this area and we need to create a large exchange platform in brussels and strasbourg. we've already started with a big conference that some of you attended in november 2011. we have set up a group of experts with whom mr becker had the opportunity to exchange views last june. this is the first time that the commission has been assisted in its own reflections and in the preparation of certain texts by a group of experts on social entrepreneurship. i intend, with my colleagues, to organise a new big meeting on social entrepreneurship in early 2014 to take stock of everything we have done in the last five years and to launch new projects. i would be delighted if all of you who wish to participate could attend this great meeting on social entrepreneurship and the solidarity economy in early 2014.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by mr wim van de camp, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the type-approval of two or three-wheel motor vehicles and quadricycles and on market surveillance (com (2010) 0542 - c7-0317/2010 - 2010/0271 (cod)) (a7-0445/2011) and the report by mr pier antonio panzeri, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the type-approval of agricultural or forestry vehicles (com (2010) 0395 - c7-0204/2010 - 2010/0212 (cod)) (a7-0446/2011).
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative process began in november 2010 and was a technical and political undertaking that lasted two years and involved three council presidencies. i think it is appropriate to thank all the actors involved, the shadow rapporteurs, the parliament's secretariat and the secretariats of the political groups and the members' assistants, and of course the commission and the council. the final text is agreed at first reading, which i consider very significant and important. the purpose of this regulation is to establish a set of harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and, in particular, to ensure the application of a number of important criteria which improve functional, occupational and road safety for users, workers and environmental standards. in this context, the introduction of new functional and occupational requirements in articles 7 and 8 can be considered a real success for the european parliament as a whole, which has succeeded in covering the risks that today affect many workers with often fatal consequences: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised, and that is why we have introduced provisions on the market surveillance of vehicles, systems and components, to ensure that all the provisions are properly implemented and made effective. finally, the regulation contributes to the competitiveness of the industry by simplifying the current legislation on vehicle typeapproval, increasing its transparency and reducing its administrative burden. the commission is proposing to repeal 24 basic directives and some 25 related amending directives on technical requirements, replacing them all with a single regulation. these aspects are important because this regulation is intended to achieve a number of other objectives, in addition to contributing to the construction of the regulated internal market and to creating a framework for a competitive, balanced and transparent system. but we are also contributing, i believe, to the strengthening of the sector and, finally, creating the conditions for the expansion of the productive base and employment. the work done is therefore very important and has been very fruitful: the compromise reached between all the political groups is the result of a great deal of cooperation, carried out in the right spirit and with the right spirit and with the will to finally deliver a common regulation to the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, and in particular mr panzeri, who has shown himself to be a good mediator. the debate concerns two regulations dealing with similar and highly technical issues. in one case, the type approval of agricultural and forestry vehicles and, in the other, that of two- or three-wheel motor vehicles or quadricycles. the discussion in committee and with the council resulted in a shared compromise agreement and a virtually unanimous vote in favour. the purpose of the measures is to simplify the current regulatory framework and introduce new administrative and technical requirements relating to environmental and safety aspects. as regards vehicles used for specific agricultural and forestry purposes, it was considered that, as there were only a limited number of vehicles, it was not necessary to place excessive environmental and technical performance requirements on them. the agreement also covers four-wheel vehicles, known as 'quads', divided into two categories: the one for sporting and private vehicle use and the one for agricultural and forestry use only. it is clear that quads for agricultural and forestry use will have to be adapted and thus differentiated from those produced for normal transport purposes. it is also positive that an agreement has been reached with the manufacturers of these vehicles on access to repair and maintenance information. as regards motorcycles, environmental requirements which would not be too burdensome for manufacturers to adapt were considered in this case, as they impact less than 3% of the total road transport mileage and therefore have almost no influence on air pollution. the vote on the two measures will therefore be favourable, partly because producers have been waiting for too long, as have users, for clearer, more precise and simpler rules, which are also more applicable.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr manders has raised a question: it is a question of the future of the community. it is not, because we have achieved important political results together by passing these two pieces of legislation. firstly, these are rules which are aimed at improving road safety and thus protecting the safety of our fellow citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are not applied in the same way as in the past. i would like to stress, especially from the point of view of small and mediumsized enterprises, as mr gáll-pelcz and mr harbour have mentioned, that we have seized the opportunity to adapt to technical progress the typeapproval regulations for both light vehicles and agricultural and forestry vehicles, another political achievement. in both groups, technology has developed rapidly and is likely to continue to develop under the impetus of european industry. it is always a challenge from a regulatory point of view to keep up with technical progress, but in this case we have achieved the result. these are essential factors for a competitive european industry, which will ensure the introduction of safe and environmentally friendly vehicles on the market for the benefit of our citizens. mr manders is not here, but i am responding to the issue he raised on counterfeiting and market surveillance. i am pleased to be here today at the general assembly of the italian republic on anti-counterfeiting, which took place in milan, and i have reiterated the commission's commitment not only to the toy, rubber and footwear sectors but also to the automotive sector, recalling that the text approved by the commission of cars 2020 commits me to proceed with the same determination with regard to surveillance and counterfeiting in the internal market. we intend to do the same for the two vehicle sectors we are discussing today: the aim is therefore to improve the legal provisions governing the conformity of production, to identify and define the obligations of the economic operators in the supply chain. the third theme: clarify the role and responsibility of the member states' type-approval authorities and market surveillance authorities. since the commission does not have its own police force, we are therefore going back to the member states' commitment to monitor counterfeiting. fourth point: the commitment to establish a forum for the coordination of market surveillance activities between the member states and the european commission. point five: reinforce the competition requirements and the technical service obligations and performance that type-approve the vehicle. i have also taken note of mr prendergast's request and we will send him all the information requested so that he can inform his constituents. i am sorry that you have left the chamber, but we will be in touch with you because, in addition to the impact assessment, we will be providing you with all the information we have. i can only thank the two rapporteurs again: i cannot give a motorcycle to mr van de camp, nor a tractor to mr panzeri, but i think that all those who use motorcycles and tractors will be grateful to both of them for the work they have done to make life easier and more comfortable for those who use these vehicles.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank vice-president tajani for his contribution. i wouldn't know where to put the tractor, so it's better if it stays where it belongs. i don't think there's anything else to be said. the debate showed the degree of consensus around the proposal for a regulation on agricultural and forestry vehicles. i hope that the vote in this house will confirm this consensus. we have worked for this and so i really hope that this result can be achieved.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 20 november 2012 at 12.00 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i welcome this regulation which aims to establish a set of harmonised standards for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles. it is an excellent piece of legislation, which strikes the right balance between the need to ensure a high level of safety in the road, labour and environmental fields. compliance with safety standards is not only a requirement but also a necessity. this regulation is a step in the right direction because it covers all aspects of the operational safety of tractors, both in their use on the road and in agricultural work. the proposed regulation greatly simplifies the current legislation on typeapproval, replacing the 24 basic directives and the other 35 or so directives amending them. this regulation was necessary to achieve finally market harmonization also for the agricultural and construction machinery sectors. i am pleased that the proposal for european typeapproval for all vehicle categories takes account of the cost-benefit, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises.
the next item is the report by marianne thyssen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the report with recommendations to the commission on the report of the presidents of the european council, the european commission, the european central bank and the eurogroup ‘towards a genuine economic and monetary union’ (2012/2151(ini)) (a7-0339/2012).
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, first of all i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this important debate. i would like to thank mrs thyssen in particular for her report and for the valuable contribution it has made to the ongoing process of deepening economic and monetary union. as you know, this process was launched by the decision of the european council in june, which called on the president of the european council to develop, in close cooperation with the president of the commission, the president of the eurogroup and the president of the european central bank, a concrete and time-bound roadmap for the realisation of a genuine economic and monetary union. the roadmap is expected to be presented to the european council in december. in the process of preparing for the december meeting, we have taken very seriously the various issues raised in mrs thyssen's report in each of the four pillars, namely the financial, budgetary, economic pillar and democratic legitimacy. i know that president van rompuy has informed you of the outcome of the discussions on the october european council's interim report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to briefly recall some of the key points in each of the four components of emu. the creation of a banking union is a key component in creating a genuine emu. there is a clear need to strengthen the european union's banking sector and move towards a unified banking framework, which will be as open as possible to member states wishing to participate. our aim is to increase stability and ensure sustainable prosperity. developments in recent years have shown that a high level of banking supervision is of paramount importance, as is a single rulebook to support banking supervision. we are all called upon to work towards agreeing, before the end of the year, on the legal framework for one of the key components of the single supervisory mechanism. the presidency intends to make every effort to fulfil this mandate and i am sure that we all share this ambition. it is of course important to ensure a level playing field for both member states participating in the single supervisory mechanism and those not participating, while fully respecting the integrity of the single market in financial services. an acceptable and balanced solution is needed to these changes to the voting and decision-making conditions of the european banking authority, which will take into account possible developments regarding participation in the single supervisory mechanism. a non-discriminatory and efficient decision-making process within the single market must be ensured. the discussions in the council have shown that there is a dynamism from the member states and that the member states are willing to reach a balanced agreement. that's very positive. we are also moving forward with work on elements of the single rulebook, which includes the objective of reaching agreement on the revised capital requirements as well as making significant progress on the proposal for the resolution and recovery of banks before the end of the cypriot presidency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial perspective. we need to implement and use the tools agreed in the six-pack of legislative acts, in the framework of the european semester with the country-specific recommendations and in the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the context of economic and monetary union. the two legislative acts currently under negotiation should also further improve economic governance and financial stability in the euro area. the council amended its position on the two legislative acts last week. i believe that this will help us to reach an agreement with the european parliament with a view to adopting the proposals before the end of the year. in the long term, we must expand emu even further if we are to ensure stability and sustainable prosperity. in october, president van rompuy was invited, along with the other presidents, to explore ideas such as the possibility of budgetary capacity and the conclusion of contractual arrangements between member states and the institutions of the european union on the reforms identified in the country-specific recommendations. the european council in brussels in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's role in the world economy. we must respect the basic principle that democratic control must be ensured at the level at which decisions are taken. this implies closer cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament. at the same time, the process of further integration must be built within the institutional and legal framework of the european union and remain open and transparent to all member states. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to hearing your views and i shall be happy to pass on to president van rompuy the issues that will be raised here today. i also know that the president of the european parliament has the opportunity to exchange views on this subject in his contacts with the other presidents. i look forward to your contribution to this process and welcome the opportunity to discuss this matter this morning.
member of the commission. - mr president, hello to each and every one of you. i would first like to ask you to excuse my colleague and friend olli rehn, who is in brussels this morning for an important eurogroup meeting on greece and who has asked me to speak on his behalf but on matters which are partly also my own responsibility. first of all, i would like to thank mrs thyssen for this report and the other members concerned, including all the committees working on this issue across the board, namely the econ, afco, empl and budg committees, for their collective work. i am also aware, mrs thyssen, of the very important work you have carried out with mr giegold on one of the aspects which concerns us most directly: the strengthening of economic and monetary union, that is to say the establishment - which we now want to see rapidly - of a european mechanism for the supervision of the entire banking sector. your report makes concrete recommendations to the commission for the four presidents' report on the establishment of a genuine economic and monetary union. mrs thyssen, that is a very substantial contribution but also - at this moment - a particularly timely one. the european union is facing major challenges which are largely the result of the financial crisis which came from the united states, the economic and social crisis which accompanied that financial crisis, as well as our own budgetary and sovereign debt crisis. these crises call for specific responses, particularly in the financial field, and this is all we are doing together in an extremely constraining agenda: 28 regulatory laws have been proposed to you for two and a half years, but also, beyond the specific responses, broader, more global responses, since these crises have highlighted certain weaknesses and inadequacies of the economic and monetary union. all this to restore what you yourself have expressed in two key words, mrs thyssen: trust and hope. these are the answers that the commission has been trying to propose for more than three years, under the impetus of our president, josé manuel barroso, with your very vigilant support, which is never complacent but always active. in this context, the commission is particularly determined to propose all the necessary measures for the establishment of a genuine economic and monetary union which is more efficient and capable of withstanding crises. we have already come a long way in this direction in recent years: the six-pack and the two-pack, prepared by my colleague olli rehn, constitute a set of rules to substantially strengthen the economic governance of the euro area. i am also thinking of the proposals for the banking union. but we must go further and act more globally: in the coming days the commission will propose a blue paper and present the characteristics of a deeper economic and monetary union and the tools and instruments we need to realise this project of a deeper economic and monetary union. in view of these challenges and ambition, i would first like to point out a very broad convergence between the views you express in this report and our own analyses and the commission's proposals. we share the same determination to act without delay, to do so in a large number of concrete areas - where we really need to go further - clearly identified in your report and essential if we want to strengthen economic and monetary union. finally, and above all, we agree on the importance of rapid adoption of the texts which are currently being negotiated in the european parliament and the council. the two-pack on strengthening economic governance, the single supervisory mechanism, the establishment of a single european framework for crisis prevention and resolution. mrs thyssen - you quoted them - these are two texts i presented, one a year and a half ago - peter simon is the rapporteur - on deposit guarantee, the other on the resolution of banking crises, with gunnar hökmark as rapporteur. this last text has also been under discussion for more than seven months now. finally, the capital requirement iv directive on capital requirements, which many of you are concerned with and which is being finalised through very active trilogues. it is important and essential that we can find solid compromises on these various texts and i would like to thank mr louca in this respect for the commitment and the willingness of the cypriot presidency to all these texts. we must strengthen the current legislative framework and show that european commitments are followed by results, simply that we are doing what we have announced to deal with these crises, and in particular at the last european council on 29 june. it is also a question of credibility and trust, which we must regain. we must also ensure that the texts which aim to strengthen economic and monetary union are fully consistent with the proper functioning of the single market; as far as possible, they should also be open to other member states which have not yet joined monetary union and the euro. this is also one of the problems i want to deal with in the context of integrated supervision. ladies and gentlemen, i now wish to make a few brief comments on behalf of vice-president olli rehn on the proposals in your report in three areas. firstly, your report rightly emphasizes the need to strengthen democratic legitimacy. as a co-legislator, the european parliament naturally has a decisive role in designing the regulatory framework governing economic and monetary union. the responsibility of euro-area decision-makers to the european parliament is equally important. in this respect, the key principle is that democratic accountability must be exercised at the level where the decision is taken. when the decision is european, democratic responsibility must be exercised at european level. your report also proposes an increase in the compulsory attendance and the production of regular reports by the commission to the european parliament. the commission, ladies and gentlemen, naturally recognises the importance of transparency and the involvement of parliament. however, if we want an effective accountability system, we must ensure that those responsible to parliament are the ones who bear the political responsibility for policy decisions and their implementation. to put it more directly, in the context of the economic dialogue, the vice-president for economic and monetary affairs and the euro is politically responsible. so today it is olli rehn, the vice-president, who will continue to answer to the european parliament as much as you wish. this political responsibility must not be replaced by a situation where the technical staff of the commission are directly responsible to parliament. secondly, the report also calls for an increased role for the european parliament in the coordination of economic policies in the context of the european semester, in particular when the annual growth review is being drawn up. let me remind you that the commission presents its proposals for the annual priorities of the european semester in its annual growth review. in accordance with your request, mrs thyssen, the report on the inquiry will be published this year together with the report on the alert mechanism. the annual growth review is therefore a communication from the commission and its presentation is a natural consequence of the commission's right of initiative. it is essential that the european parliament and the council express their views on the commission's proposals when they are published, in a process of political debate on future priorities. another important aspect concerns transparency and democratic accountability in the context of the european semester: this is the possibility for parliament introduced by the six-pack to conduct economic dialogues with the other institutions and member states. the commission supports the active use, even more active use, of the economic dialogue by parliament. finally, in our reflection on the steps needed to complete economic and monetary union, i think it is very important to exploit all the possibilities offered by the current treaty, but this does not prevent us from identifying what in the treaty would require further change. we are glad that parliament considers that the current treaties do leave us considerable room for manoeuvre, which we are using. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the whole, mrs thyssen's report shows a broad convergence of views with the commission, which is not surprising. we all share the essential political objective - which is the main expectation of our compatriots, of our citizens - to provide a genuine and comprehensive response to the current crises by doing what we have decided, and perhaps going further, by definitively consolidating our economic and monetary union. the main thing, in my view - as mrs thyssen and mr louca have said - is the substance, the substance of the reforms we have undertaken together to strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy, financial stability and, in general, confidence.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental message of this report is that a common currency cannot be limited to a set of rules but requires a genuine economic government, with its own resources and full democratic legitimacy. a genuine economic and monetary union must therefore be based on the union's institutions, around which a genuine european political area must take shape. the strengthening of the role of parliament is therefore not a corporate demand but an essential condition if the governance of the euro is to be given legitimacy and strength. we believe, moreover, that a light federation, based on a clear distinction of roles and resources and competences between the union and the states, would be more effective and democratic and, at the same time, more respectful of the prerogatives of the national parliaments of the model which has taken shape in recent years. we therefore support the idea of a strengthened fiscal capacity based on own resources, the embryo of a genuine european treasury, provided that it is placed within the union budget and is based on additional resources. we therefore believe that ex ante coordination of economic policies can be strengthened and that parliament should be involved, in a different way from the contractual model indicated in the interim report. we therefore consider it essential to activate common debt management mechanisms at union level. so, stronger governance, but also different policies. budgetary discipline must be accompanied by countercyclical measures that ensure that public investment plays an appropriate role, and the safeguarding and revitalisation of the european social model must become an integral part of the governance of the euro, a genuine 'fifth pillar', based on a social pact that puts young people and work at the centre. with this report, parliament is therefore proposing an ambitious vision and a clear and realistic road map. first, full use of the wide margins of manoeuvre afforded by the treaties; the european parliament has been given a new mandate, and the european parliament has been given a new mandate, and the european parliament has been given a new mandate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council of europe in june identified what we need most: that is, more europe. the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, stressed the need to strengthen the european union's economic and monetary union. all the previous speakers have mentioned a number of problems, one of which is the need for greater democracy, which i would like to put first, followed by a single financial framework, a single budgetary framework and a single economic and monetary policy framework. these four conditions are necessary to move forward on the road to greater european integration. with this report, mrs thyssen is seeking to express the opinion of parliament, because that is the right thing to do. however, the report also provided an opportunity for the various political groups to express their views and concerns, which resulted in a substantial number of amendments. i congratulate mrs thyssen on her excellent work in drafting the compromise and on finding a solution that is as acceptable as possible. i realize that there are some perplexities and different positions, ladies and gentlemen, but we must work together to find the most balanced picture possible. the concerns concern mainly, but not exclusively, the single banking supervision system. i therefore believe that we must act quickly and send a clear message from the european parliament to the commission and the council. we must emphasize that the elements identified in june are an essential condition for a stronger european union, capable of guaranteeing economic growth and more jobs, especially for the new generations, because that is the challenge we are facing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you seem to understand that we must move towards a genuine economic and monetary union: does this mean that we have been joking about it all along, that all the measures taken so far were not real but the product of someone's imagination? unfortunately, that was not the case, and the fruit we were served was poisoned. the wrong assumptions are still being insisted on, such as the need to standardise the economy and the irreversibility of the euro. it is precisely the contract, the cornerstone of the euro, which will lead to the end of a single european union. the report indicates that the member states which do not yet have the single currency are interested in joining it. but that is not true at all, as shown by bulgaria and poland, which do not want to join the euro. the possibility of not joining the euro is also reiterated. that's good, that's great. so let us not say that the single currency is the very purpose of the european union and above all that measures are being taken to get out of the euro, as it is already possible to get out of the european union itself under article 50 of the treaty. the word 'binding' is used repeatedly in the report: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it would therefore be that brussels would inevitably fall back on policies that are good for several european countries, and that is dangerous and unacceptable for us. we do not want to be slaves to brussels.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have appreciated the work of mrs thyssen. but i think we are now faced with a number of issues that go beyond the merits of your report. when we have spoken of banking supervision, when we have discussed on various occasions the general conditions for the management of economic activities and the defence of the currency in the european union, we have always been faced with difficulties which did not concern the specific subject but the relations between the individual institutions. parliament is the most exposed institution, being the only body directly elected by the citizens, but on the other hand, it is also the one with the least objective powers. i wonder if it's time to face the problem for what it is: we need a revision of the basic rules, that is, of the treaty. if we do not start from there, i fear that all our work will always be confronted with difficulties which represent insoluble contradictions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the commissioners for their presence in the house today. today, this house will have the opportunity to address, at two different times, a subject which is of the utmost importance, of great importance for europe at this moment and which is linked to growth and employment within our continent, within our union. i believe that the two commissioners here should be the reference point for all of us at this stage, for the policies they are pursuing and for the choices they are making. in this context, i ask commissioner tajani whether the work he has done so far can be concluded, as a first step, by a real strengthening of the commission's role at european level in relation to industrial policy, because this is the train that can really give us the satisfaction we expect.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the committee on industry, the european commission intends to play a role within the limits of the treaty, although i cannot ignore the letter i received from seven ministers from member states and the will expressed at the last competitiveness council, at which i presented the commission's draft on the reindustrialisation of the european union. the desire is emerging from many ministers of industry to have a european industrial policy, at least of coordination, and thus to give more weight to the competitiveness council as regards the strategies to be studied. i have responded positively to the ministers' letter, so much so that on the eve of the next meeting of the competitiveness council on 10 june i will be meeting the ministers of industry informally to discuss the car crisis and the action plan for the car which will be on the agenda of the competitiveness council. i too believe that some corrections must be made and that the commission must play a proactive role, because sometimes the competitiveness council risks becoming a sort of coreper, given the constant succession of ministers: sometimes states cannot send 4-5 ministers in the same day, so they prefer to leave a diplomatic representative. i believe that given the current situation and the fact that we want to get out of the crisis by focusing on the real economy, the competitiveness council should be given more weight and the european commission should be given a greater coordinating role, and i thank parliament for the support it has always given me in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a thought: i think it would be useful in a situation like this to reinstate the industry council on the one hand, and secondly, i think that a working group should be set up within the commission with germany on the one hand and the foreign trade commissioner on the other, because the problem of european industry is certainly a problem of european industry but at the same time it is also a problem of the rules of our internal market and of a more careful policy on external relations and the arrival in europe of all kinds of goods which do not conform to our rules.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is considering, also internally, a competition policy which can enable europe to be competitive and to face up to globalisation. our competitors are not only within the union but also outside the union. that is why commissioner almunia is planning to present a proposal to amend the state aid rules as well, and the commission certainly intends to discuss the union's competitiveness policy as well, in an obviously free context and in an attempt to make our reality more competitive at global level.
member of the commission. − we already had a number of opportunities to discuss with the social partners, including trade unions sectorally but also with the umbrella organisations, the importance of industrial policy and the importance of human capital investment inside industrial policy. i believe the commission’s initiatives in the recent period have been welcomed by the social partners and it is understood especially in the context of a sectoral crisis like the automotive industry, for example, how important it is to have a strategic view – how important it is to connect all stakeholders together for an industrial revival in the eu. some aspects, of course, can be connected with existing formats for the dialogue with the social partners. for example, the tripartite social summit or the new opportunities for the social partners to participate in economic governance also provide room to address issues of industrial policy.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i would just like to add on the matters within my competence, since we cooperate very closely with commissioner andor on all industrial policy initiatives, especially on the action plans for the shipbuilding sector, the action plans for the car industry and the action plan for steel, that the commissioner or a representative of his cabinet has always attended all the meetings and the trade unions have always been involved in all our initiatives, including strictly industrial policy, not just in terms of restructuring. next week i will meet, before the industry representatives, the representatives of the european trade unions on the car action plan, and the trade unions will be an integral part of all our actions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
member of the commission. − indeed the quota of women is an important step in the commission’s life. but on the question of female entrepreneurs, there are existing eu financial instruments and programmes exist which can support women in becoming entrepreneurs. the european social fund can do this and has done so in a variety of ways. the progress microfinance facility, which was launched two years ago but only started to function at the beginning of last year, creates this opportunity. for example, in slovenia i recently had the opportunity to see a project supported by progress microfinance. this provides opportunities for women at various stages of their careers to become self-employed or entrepreneurs. we have to highlight this, because there are still about ten countries which have not taken concrete steps towards using the progress microfinance facility, and there are opportunities in this area.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i should also mention the initiative launched in 2009 to create the european network of women ambassadors for women entrepreneurs, which was modelled on the national networks of sweden and the united kingdom: it is a network which is now active in 22 countries of the european union. in addition, on 15 november last year, the commission launched the european mentoring network for women entrepreneurs, active in 17 european countries with some 170 women entrepreneurs, which is developing its activities to increase the number of women in entrepreneurship. so, as part of the strategy drawn up by commissioner andor, there are also these concrete initiatives so that there can be an exchange of information, a real network. moreover, as regards entrepreneurship, in a few weeks' time - before the end of the year - under the cypriot presidency, we will launch a commission initiative to encourage entrepreneurship. it is intended to make our young people understand that it is not necessary that they become employees in the public administration, the police or the armed forces, but that they can highlight their skills and talents - of course with aid, incentives, venture capital and start-ups and financing of all kinds possible - so that they can become entrepreneurs and, therefore, play their own future.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, preventing relocation is one of our main political objectives: that is why we are launching a series of growth missions - to try to ensure that our companies do not relocate but can explore, also from an industrial point of view, new markets and have opportunities for economic returns. i also believe that, as things stand, we have already set ourselves some very ambitious and important objectives. our whole industrial policy - the third industrial revolution we are fighting for - is and must be a leading player in the fight against climate change. it is no coincidence that jeremy rifkin was one of the protagonists of the event, with which we began to launch this strategy to re-industrialize europe. but the ambitious targets we have are certainly those of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, with all the initiatives that can be taken, and the text of the commission's communication on the reindustrialisation of europe speaks of eco-friendly buildings and vehicles and the green economy. but it is obvious that the objectives to be set must be achievable. if we ask industry, at a time when there is no global agreement to reduce co2 emissions, to pursue objectives which they cannot achieve, we risk relocating industries, which will worsen the climate change situation. in fact, forcing our companies to go beyond the borders of the european union is to encourage them not to comply with our rules, because producing in countries around the world where there are no very strict rules on co2 emissions is to have a bad environmental policy. so i think that the demand for achievable targets is the best way of reconciling a correct, modern industrial policy, different from the industrial policy of the past, with a commitment to achievable and serious targets in the common action we all take to combat climate change.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, if we want to have more european and extra-european investment for a modern and competitive industrial policy which is environmentally friendly, we must of course provide legal certainty but also political certainty. the commission's decision which will be submitted to the council - and i hope that parliament will share this approach - is precisely to focus on a modern model of reindustrialisation. after many years of choices that have favoured one part of the economy - i am referring to the financial sector - europe is now setting itself, through the commission, the objective of 20% of gross domestic product by 2020 coming from the real economy. this is already a political and legal certainty, because it is included in an official text of the european commission. i also believe that an important message in terms of legal certainty, and therefore a guarantee for all those who want to invest, is represented by the directive on late payment by public administrations, which was approved thanks to the strong commitment of parliament and which will enter into force in all the countries of the union by march 2013 at the latest. three countries - cyprus, malta and italy - have already implemented it, and this decisive action by the european institutions is certainly a political and legal message which will, in my view, encourage european and non-european investment in the industrial and business sectors.
commissioner, i very much appreciate the work you are doing with your colleague mr andor. i think, and not just now, that it is very important to defend the system of production of goods and services in this part of the world: it's part of our history and our identity. of course, we must think of a modern production structure and reindustrialisation which selects some sectors and considers others objectively no longer viable. however, it is very important that, in order to revive industrial activity, action be taken on infrastructure, which is particularly lacking in some european countries. i think of the heavier ones - roads, airports and railways - but i also think of the system of energy production and use, which for many activities, even modern ones, matters a lot. i would also add to this a direct commitment to knowledge: innovation comes from there, from how much we invest in knowledge, research and innovation. i think these are the most important guidelines and i would like to know what your opinion is on this.
vice-president of the commission. - mr cofferati, i agree with your analysis and approach: this is why the european commission has welcomed the letter from several nobel laureates asking the council - on the eve of an important meeting devoted to the forthcoming financial perspective - not to reduce investment in innovation and research. the european commission has proposed an increase from the current 54 billion to - i hope - 80 billion euro, precisely to enable our business system to be more competitive globally, by focusing on certain particular sectors, also using applied research to industry more than has been done so far, to the advantage above all of our competitors. the sectors to which you refer, contained in our proposal on the reindustrialisation of the european union, are those in which europe wants to win the game in terms of quality, they represent the centre of the mosaic of reindustrialisation of europe and from these sectors - i am thinking of the eco-compatible car sector, i am thinking of the eco-compatible construction sector, which are two together with biotechnology and smart grids, and therefore the infrastructure part to which you also referred - all the others will be able to benefit: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, the infrastructure issue is very important and in the next budget - and parliament will certainly be with the commission - we must avoid that wrong assessments lead to a reduction in community investment in infrastructure. we are very much insisting on smart grids, because they would damage the whole of economic policy and strong action for growth. that is why the debate which will open in the council in a few days' time is of the utmost importance, and i believe that parliament and the commission together will play a very important role in ensuring that the community budget is not reduced, not to the detriment of the institutions but to the detriment of the citizens, who need a real economy and a market economy which can really play a social role.
commissioner, thank you for your answer. i just wanted to add a very brief thing: i believe that with regard to infrastructure, as in general also with regard to certain intangible activities, it is very important to try to link the policies which concern your delegations with those relating to the internal market and there is a subject on the agenda today - the investments resulting from public procurement - which can also become an important driver for the development of some of the ancillary activities which give weight, value and importance to the industrial system.
member of the commission. − i think it is true what you said in the first half of your question about the importance of demand. of course, nowadays it has to be interpreted in the whole european context and not just in the national context of individual member states. if we have a single market and we even want to deepen it further, then demand-side policies should be developed on the entire eu level. greece unfortunately is a very specific case because of the high indebtedness and the fact that it was not so transparent in the past years. it required external assistance and now it is not only the troika but also the eu task force which is working very hard to provide assistance to generate investment and by using the eu structural funds faster and with better focus to help promote reforms. these and many other elements – which the vice-president also referred to – should add up to improved competitiveness and a better investment climate. now of course a better investment climate would also require social peace and better harmony. that should, of course, be promoted through a better dialogue between the stakeholders. finally, let me just point to one fact which was coming through two weeks ago in the projections of our colleague vice-president olli rehn, which was a very realistic projection for the next year end and for the one after on the european union’s economy. but interestingly in the case of greece there was a silver lining in the form of reducing unemployment. i very much hope that this is linked to a judgment that competitiveness is improving and the operation of all these stakeholders which are listed is now hopefully bearing fruit.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, since there is a political debate on a budget, we cannot but defend our political position and the reason for these proposals in order to protect the budget. it 's not like we can do anything else . the debate is open. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the council of ministers, and that it should be involved in the council of ministers. as we have said many times, there is no alternative. these are the powers we have in the budgetary policy debate and we can only work with parliament to try to protect certain chapters and a political strategy that aims at having more europe. i do not see any other solution, because the debate is mainly political. this is not a technical debate: it's a political debate and we have to move on. we are in the middle of the road and we must continue to move towards a more united europe - as far as i am concerned towards a united states of europe as the ultimate goal - and the budget is one of the instruments for making this policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a question for commissioner tajani, whose staff i thank for their commitment to the late payment directive. the question is this: in view of the critical nature of the budget debate, can you give us an update on the future of the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs which is obviously an excellent initiative? the other question concerns commissioner andor: on 30 january, as you know, the council and the commission launched their youth unemployment challenge, making available €82 billion in unused funds. it is almost a year since then and the impact of these funds is still unclear. a few questions: is there a detailed report on the use of these funds? is there a list of best practices? when will the 'youth' package launched by barroso be presented?
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to remind my colleagues that today is the 23rd anniversary of the un convention on the rights of the child and i believe that the digital world represents the new frontier in the promotion and protection of the rights of children and young people. i would like to thank the shadow members of the cult committee and the rapporteur for the libe committee for their excellent cooperation and i hope that we are sending an important signal today to those who are awaiting parliament's decision.
president of the republic of haiti. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i am deeply honoured by the honour you have bestowed on my country by welcoming me here to the prestigious parliament in strasbourg. i want to thank you for that. ladies and gentlemen, i come here bearing our creed, the same creed that was yours in adversity; the same creed that gave you the thirty glorious years; the same creed that raised you up after the second world war; the same creed that brought down the berlin wall; the same creed that inspired the highly respected paul-henri spaak. i'm here to tell you that despite the storms and the tides, despite the wounds, haiti has not given up. slowly but surely, haiti is recovering, and that's the good news i'm here to share with you. if we owe this change of course to the courage of our people and the determination of our administration, we shall certainly be able to do so with the active cooperation of europe, which is the most important of all. i want to thank you for that. i see in them the signs of a friendship that history has forged. a friendship that certainly cannot leave us indifferent to the financial crisis which, by threatening you, is also affecting us. i remain convinced that a united europe, and therefore an even stronger one, will be able to find the appropriate solutions to revive its economy. i remain convinced that no recession is permanent. the length of a crisis depends on the speed and ingenuity of the recovery measures. from mario draghi to christine lagarde, to name a few, you have access to some of the best minds on the planet, who will enable you to contain the crisis and to remedy it. but i am here first of all to thank you for your generosity and solidarity and to remind you that no country can escape poverty by living charity. (applause) i would like to thank it is true that haiti still needs help. but what haitians need most is productive work, trade and direct investment. haiti is at the doorstep of america: this north america which is beginning to grow again and this south america which, this time, has not entered into crisis and has never stopped growing. haiti is a strategic platform, an environment conducive to investment, a springboard for european companies to participate in the reconstruction of the country and to prepare a strategic outpost for the region. haiti needs ports, airports, roads, power plants and hotels. haiti has fertile soil and can easily start feeding its population again and exporting its surplus. haiti has a climate and geography unlike any other, thousands of kilometres of white sandy beaches and a nature that is still largely untouched and unexplored. from fort liberty to the cayes, from gonaïves to miragoâne, our country is full of naturally protected deep-water ports. our people are young, brave, willing, hardworking. i'm here today to introduce you, invite you, and encourage you to take advantage of the best of this country and its extraordinary investment opportunities. i invite you to work with us to help us regain our financial sovereignty by allowing us to return to international financial markets. i'm here to discuss with you other free trade agreements. i encourage you to work with us to design and develop smart, profitable projects. i ask you to work with us so that together we can find the best ways of financing them. many of your retired teachers have nothing but dreams of helping make our world a more just and equitable place. send them to us and participate in the training of our young people and their teachers. join us in changing history, history that reminds us of our ties with spain, england, france, italy, poland. the more recent history that we have is that of our trade relations with germany up to 1940. the history that will record what the european union is doing today in the african, caribbean and pacific countries in terms of development cooperation efforts. europe can be proud of its place in the world: its charisma, its convictions, the currents of thought it carries, the answers it gives to the problems of the planet, its initiatives and its role in the emerging countries. the european youth must know that the countries of the south are counting on them, that they cannot close their doors, that their generosity and their intelligent choices will lead to a more fraternal, economically more moral, ecologically safer, certainly more democratic and more tolerant world. today, haiti, with this friendship, is taking a step forward, erasing all the old clichés attached to it, breaking the chains of endemic underdevelopment, exorcising its old demons, fighting against the desertification that threatens it and wants to open up to the world. my administration has been working on this for a year and a half, with occasional hiccups, but no one will deny our good faith. this year, haiti was hit again, with varying degrees of intensity, by the tropical storms isaac and sandy, which tested us. once again, human lives, crops, homes, livestock, have been lost. and once again, the international community has been quick to rescue, to save, to rebuild. we must break this vicious circle and build a virtuous one. that is what we are doing, and it is through this effort that haiti will rise. haiti will recover, because we have realized that the vulnerability of haiti's already considerable territory will increase in the coming years at the rate of the progress of climate change announced for the west indies. it will rise because we are stubbornly working to do with another time scale: that of prevention. and prevention in this area is planning. land planning is about making the country less vulnerable, it is about protecting watersheds so that they are no longer destroyed by deforestation, erosion or uncontrolled urbanisation. planning the territory also means avoiding the loss of millions of dollars in each climate disaster, it is creating an acceptable living environment for the haitian population. my government has the tools to start making land use planning a reality. these instruments are the cnigs (national centre for geospatial information), supported by you, the european union, and the ciat (interministerial committee for land use planning), to which you contribute. i want to thank you for that. i want to tell you that my administration will use them to the fullest to inscribe its action in time and to put its mark in haitian space. you see, in this area, the old continent is ahead of more than one partner. as we say in our country, europe is leading the way. it continues to inspire a world in constant change where, increasingly, the lone rider of the states will have to give way to regionalization, forming this space of free movement of goods and people, speaking with one voice, supporting each other while maintaining their identity. the caribbean region, all the greater and lesser antilles combined, without exclusion, can one day emerge as a true union of independent states and benefit from its extraordinary geostrategic position. this is not only the price of stability - i was going to say world peace - but much more: these are the new incentives for development in a context where all the parties involved are committed to peace, order and justice. the european union, in its support for the african, caribbean and pacific countries, is making its contribution to this, and the resources allocated to the european development fund under the regional integration chapter are becoming more substantial and are participating in this initiative. today's haiti subscribes to it, aware of its place, its weight, its role in the region, but also of its shortcomings. lucides, we have assessed our delays, decided to stop beating ourselves up and work instead to fill them. and we fill them, every day a little more. it's not gonna be a sprint, it's going to be a long-distance race. and here again, europe is inspiring us, because if some of its member states were exhausted barely half a century ago, today, despite the financial crisis, they are still standing on solid foundations that will allow them to recover one day. the recovery of europe depends, among other things, on the transparent management of public resources, their rational use, the unambiguous functioning of the judiciary, the level of education of the populations and their desire to work tirelessly to rebuild their respective economies. success knows no boundaries. my mandate is devoted, among other things, to the education of our people, the fight against corruption, the establishment of a rule of law, and i want to believe that the results will come. already, in less than two years, more than a million children, who had been left behind, have been integrated into the education system free of charge with no other contribution than the efforts of the public treasury. the recovery effort has already resulted in more than a million homeless people being relocated, justifying the efforts of your taxpayers. i want to express my gratitude and assure them that their solidarity has not been spoiled and that the most vulnerable have been the real beneficiaries. the rule of law we so ardently desire is already in place: the holidays of our institutions have been filled; the amended constitution, despite its weaknesses, was promulgated; the magistracy has recovered its marks; the supreme judicial council is in office; the permanent electoral council is convened; the election to renew one-third of the senate is coming up; civil liberties are at stake, the press is free to speak, the opposition even more so; for the earth is become desolate, and the habitation of the wicked is no more. slowly but surely, justice is becoming more just! on the human rights front, i am actively working to ratify, under my mandate, agreements and conventions that will make certain crimes unenforceable. just as in the same chapter, under my mandate and with your cooperation, the right to health, to work, to equal opportunities, to fair gender parity, to the protection of minors will become a reality. the first augurs are here! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, economic europe was the beginning, the founding fathers of the eec understood this, and the acp countries should understand it too. haiti, especially! your cooperation is aimed at this by supporting major infrastructure works in our country. the national road no 3, a large section of which was recently inaugurated in the presence of commissioner piebalgs, is a clear sign of this. this road will enable and is already enabling the economic dynamism of the local authorities in this region, which is grateful to you. the processing workshops for raw materials at the borders with our neighbours, the customs offices at the border, the openings to the binational markets are also abundant in the sense of economic development first. that is why, from the beginning of my mandate, i have preached these and other paradigms: those often drawn from the sources of your wisdom, your ideals, your old civilization; those that radiate from strasbourg, now intimately associated with the democratic ideals of your parliament; those that are based on the principle of subsidiarity, on the principle of subsidiarity; those that are based on the principle of subsidiarity, on the principle of subsidiarity; those that are based on the principle of subsidiarity, on the principle of subsidiarity. those in respect of which you accompany us; those in whose name you have welcomed me here today with such warmth. thank you for that. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
mr president, the brussels i regulation has undoubtedly been one of the most effective acts of union legislation, as it laid the foundations for a european judicial area and promoted legal certainty among european citizens. the recast of this regulation touches on issues which are fundamental to the development of european justice, including the extension of the rules on jurisdiction for disputes, with possible domiciles in third countries, and agreements on the choice of the competent forum. i am convinced that the adoption of the new regulation will ensure stronger consumer protection and greater legal certainty within the internal market, and that is why i voted in favour.
mr president, we all know how important it is to guarantee the safety of citizens within the member states. the proposal under consideration, for which i voted in favour, is aimed at reducing the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks by limiting the access of ordinary citizens to those chemicals in high concentrations which are commonly used and which can also be used to make explosives. in this respect, i consider it very interesting that the obligation to report suspicious transactions in these substances should be introduced, bearing in mind that the volumes covered by the proposal, which is addressed to wholesalers, retailers and member states, are modest compared to the total quantities sold.
mr president, with this report the european parliament is taking note of the rapid changes taking place in the consumer credit market, because the financial crisis is also a credit crisis and a sharp contraction in loans and mortgages to households is reflected in businesses and the whole economic system. if the commission can take action to increase access to crossborder credit, which is currently too low and represents only 2% of the community total, many europeans who are unable to obtain credit in their own country because of the difficulties of that country's system could find it in that of other member states and this would therefore guarantee the effectiveness of that single market for which the european institutions are fighting for its full implementation and overcoming national limits.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, which makes it possible to take an important step forward in the current debate on the recovery of the economies of the individual member states. while the priority is to repair the state budget, targeted social investment is also needed to prepare individuals, households and businesses for changes in economic conditions and labour market requirements. in addition to the sustainability of public finances, member states need to focus on how to create sustainable and quality employment, how to invest in training and further education, and how to combat poverty and social exclusion. this is why we need, and perhaps urgently need, a coordinated approach to social investment and, consequently, a social investment pact of european significance.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i have followed its progress very closely and i think the rapporteur has done a very good job both from a technical point of view, given his ability to get to the heart of such a complex and articulated dossier, but also from a political point of view, in submitting this final text to us after countless discussions and readings. i also think that the advanced braking system, i.e. the cbs or abs, is a good thing, particularly for safeguarding the production cycles of companies, and that greater safety has therefore been achieved, which is one of our main objectives, while taking into account the technological and performance differences and the costs of the different subcategories of motorcycles. the study on environmental issues for the 2020 phase is also commendable, as it allows the regulation to keep up with the latest technological developments. finally, i am pleased to emphasize the market surveillance aspect, so congratulations again to the rapporteur.
mr president, this proposal for a regulation aims to simplify the current regulatory framework and to introduce new administrative and technical requirements for the type approval of new l-category vehicles, which currently number some 30 million in europe. to date, the 2002 framework directive and 14 related directives have regulated the matter: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the report also provides for the introduction of more appropriate subcategories, stricter emission limits, the mandatory introduction of anti-lock systems on certain types of vehicle, and an automatic lighting system to improve the visibility of l-category vehicles. the advantages which will result in terms of safety, environmental protection and the better functioning of the internal market are undeniable and that is why i voted in favour of it.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr panzeri, on this important achievement, which is to deliver a regulation which will have a significant impact on the market for agricultural and forestry vehicles. firstly, the simplification it produces, because the instrument of the regulation will replace as many as 24 existing directives and will make it possible to achieve effective harmonization in the member states, through direct effect in national legislation. moreover, common technical requirements for these vehicles at european level will also improve market competitiveness. the introduction of new technologies, including anti-lock braking systems and electronic stability control systems, will therefore help to improve the safety of these vehicles. as rapporteur for the previous european standardisation regulation, i think it is very appropriate that the technical services and the procedure for their evaluation should be upgraded to standards by means of delegated acts from the commission.
mr president, i express my opinion and vote in favour of the matter under discussion, because the proliferation of means of payment and the spread of the so-called electronic money require a discipline appropriate to the times, combining the drive towards greater openness to the internal market with the need for transparency. in fact, it has been achieved through some positive aspects, which are the fight against money laundering from illicit activities and the fight against tax evasion, which is a negative feature of many member states. but we must proceed in greater detail and i think it is essential to take note of the possible problems caused by multilateral interchange commissions to competitiveness, with costs and surcharges that affect a greater use of this currency. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the application of the competition rules to the internal market.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i see in it one of the main technological challenges of the coming years: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. so the use of mobile phones as a means of payment is already taking hold in other parts of the world, particularly where banks have not yet had time to set up a network of cash-out desks. in europe, such technologies would allow traceability, thereby better combating both theft and fraud, and at the same time help to consolidate the internal market by making cross-border payments easier even in areas with different currencies. particular attention is rightly paid to safety, standard-setting and interdependence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not left behind.
mr president, i voted in favour of this dossier in the costa report, in disagreement with my group, and i wanted to state that the reason why i voted in favour of this dossier is that i believe that the issues relating to the active fight against threats to children from the digital world are predominant in this dossier. child protection is an emergency in a technologically evolving world where the family, the school, the education system do not always resort to safeguards to prevent harmful effects. there is a lot to be done, but the positive aspects of this dossier are what made me vote in favour.
mr president, i congratulate mrs costa on her excellent work and on her timing in bringing this very sensitive subject to the table. more than ever, new technologies are putting the security of personal data at risk, especially when you are not fully aware of the consequences of sharing certain information. those who are both more exposed to such technologies and often less mature in their use are more likely to make mistakes. clearly, more and better education is part of the overall design of increasing protection but at the same time the fight against illegal and harmful content is largely part of the tools to be used in order to reduce the risks associated with digital citizenship of children.
mr president, i welcome the text adopted today, which builds on the commission's 2011 communication on the social entrepreneurship initiative. we are facing the europe 2020 strategy, which will have to respond to the growing need for social services, for example in the health and nursing sectors, and assess the demographic trend we are facing. but the new phrase will have to be accompanied by a high degree of innovation and experimentation, the success or failure of which will have to be assessed by the european institutions at certain times, so as to see whether this first approach can allow for improvement or optimisation and continue effectively with long-term development in this type of entrepreneurship. we must bear in mind that we are dealing with a particular nature in this type of business, which must combine economic growth with solidarity, and that is why i am in favour of this constructive approach being a fundamental pillar of a new society, which recovers the meaning and value of work in which man is at the centre of society in a new integral humanism.
mr president, i voted in favour of mr becker's report, which provides a better picture of the contribution of social enterprises to the resolution of the current crises. unfortunately, social entrepreneurship is often seen as a sort of appendage to the classic forms of entrepreneurship based solely on maximising profit. on the contrary, social enterprises play a key role in the development of european markets and the economy: they provide innovative responses to economic, social and environmental challenges through sustainable development, social inclusion and territorial cohesion. i therefore support the idea of setting up a fund for social enterprises, which would meet the main objective of not exposing these enterprises to uncontrolled competition, ensuring adequate financial support for them and facilitating their integration into the markets.
in writing. - i support the report by mr zwiefka analysing the commission proposal to update council regulation (ec) no 44/2001 of 22 december 2001 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, also known as 'brussels i'. the report not only proposes changes to strengthen the effectiveness of arbitration conventions within the member states and to avoid parallel judicial and arbitration proceedings, but also reiterates a firmly opposed position to all those unfair procedural practices which have been highlighted by the studies carried out by the commission in this regard.
in writing. - we welcome the revision of this regulation, which is today one of the most effective acts of community legislation, since it definitively lays the foundations for a european judicial area, to the benefit of citizens and businesses, and aims to promote legal certainty and the predictability of decisions. among other things, we support the abolition of the exequatur, as proposed by the commission, considering that a decision enforceable in the member state of origin is enforceable and enforced anywhere in the eu upon presentation of an authentic copy and a certificate in the prescribed form issued by the court of origin, without any intermediate procedure. the abolition of the exequatur for all decisions in civil and commercial matters therefore represents a significant step forward in access to justice for citizens and businesses. finally, we consider it necessary to consider whether the rules of this regulation should be extended in the near future. we believe that in the meantime we must have wide consultations and a wide political debate. at the present stage, we propose to include in the regulation rules aimed at introducing only a partial retroactive effect for disputes in the context of insurance contracts.
in writing. the zwiefka report on the revision of the regulation on the recognition of judgments in civil and commercial matters is a courageous and worthy step forward from the commission's proposal. the premise is that the implementation of judicial cooperation between states is a necessary prerequisite for promoting the internal market. it is not possible to support the european common space if there is no coherence between the exercise of a right and its protection. the parliament's proposal to overcome once and for all the costly and time-consuming obstacle of the delict procedure for the enforcement in one state of a judgment given in another state is a significant act of responsibility in the building of the union. this was done with great skill and without neglecting the respect of the fundamental guarantees. the report proposes to abolish the judgment of delict, while retaining the control of the right to cross-examine, the principle of the formal judge and the fundamental principles of the order in which the judgment is to be enforced. the one illustrated by mr zwiefka is the way forward and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - the recasting of the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, known as the 'brussels i' regulation, is a very important basis for the development of the single european legislation. i consider the text to be a great opening up of national legislation towards a single system capable of giving european law its practical expression by giving it effectiveness and certainty through a broad management of competences at international level. this is the way forward for the implementation of a faster, more dynamic and comparative european law, which can assist citizens in the various cases.
in writing. − whereas regulation no 44/2001 laid the foundations for a european judicial area, has proved useful for citizens and businesses, promoting legal certainty and predictability of decisions, and is used as a reference and basic instrument for other acts. the recasting of this regulation is therefore extremely important as it also eliminates some of the difficulties encountered in this area over the last ten years. bearing in mind that the abolition of exequatur for all decisions in civil and commercial matters represents a significant advance in access to justice for citizens and businesses, and stressing the need to improve the effectiveness of arbitration conventions in order to give full effect to the will of the parties, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr zwiefka's report because i believe that legal cooperation in civil and commercial matters is a fundamental legal basis for the objective of strengthening the single market. the importance of this regulation lies in the fact that, by laying down provisions in civil and commercial matters at community level, it establishes with certainty which court has jurisdiction to hear and determine crossborder disputes. in addition, another positive aspect of the report is the decision to maintain safeguards for the rights of defendants and consumers, in the name of the principle of the weaker party.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr mulder's report, which seeks to regulate the placing on the market of explosives precursors. explosive precursors are all those chemicals which have been sold freely and which, when skillfully mixed, make it possible to manufacture homemade explosive devices, often used in terrorist attacks. these substances are currently available to european consumers in a number of ways. the report therefore aims to harmonise existing legislation on the subject by providing that consumers will be able to buy products with chemical concentrations below certain thresholds for domestic use without restrictions, while purchasers requiring higher concentrations will be issued special purchase licences and will be kept in specific registers to record their purchases.
in writing. - the regulation of trade and use of explosives precursors requires the adoption of a series of concrete measures aimed at a clearer delimitation of the safety limits that exist today. that is why i supported mr mulder's report. in the light of serious tragic events, such as the massacre in oslo, the need to make it increasingly difficult to obtain explosives is urgent. i therefore believe that some of the proposed changes, such as the ban on the public's buying of 15 types of explosives, are moving in the right direction, and can better define the boundaries of a subject which must be given the utmost attention.
in writing. − citizens' security and the prevention and fight against terrorism must also be taken into account from a legislative point of view. the control and/or prohibition of the purchase of substances considered dangerous because they may be used as components in the manufacture of handmade weapons does not mean restricting the freedom of consumers but ensuring their safety by making the market for these products transparent. the regulation i voted for aims to restrict public access to certain chemicals by using a system of traceability and/or registration of purchase. the member states will have to adapt to the market conditions imposed by the legislation.
in writing. − considering that certain commonly and widely used chemicals can also be misused as precursors to explosives, it is necessary to restrict public access to them in order to reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks. agreeing on the list of eight substances (and mixtures thereof) in annex i to the proposed regulation for which the controls set out therein are mandatory; considering it reasonable to allow the sale of these substances in high concentrations to the public to continue only after obtaining a licence attesting to the legality of the intended end uses; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague jan mulder on his work. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation. through this restriction, parliament wants to hit those terrorist organisations, such as the one it recently hit in norway, which had and still use these substances to carry out attacks against governments and populations. finally, although some products containing these chemicals will continue to be sold without restriction, their distribution will be under strict and careful controls, and everyone from wholesaler to trader will be required to report any 'suspicious transactions' to the competent authorities, for example if a customer purchases a large quantity of a particular product.
in writing. the aim of the legislative proposal on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors is to reduce public access to 15 highly concentrated chemicals which are dangerous because they are suitable for the manufacture of homemade explosives. i therefore voted in favour of mr mulder's report because i believe that it can help to prevent possible terrorist attacks and is therefore a very important step towards ensuring the safety of citizens. in concrete terms, i think it is important that, for certain categories of substances, access to the public be authorized through the establishment of a licensing system, harmonized at european level, while, for other categories, it is necessary that such access be accompanied by a report and the traceability of suspicious transactions.
in writing. - i consider it a priority to restrict public access to certain substances which are commonly used but whose improper use could affect public safety. in fact, some freely available substances could be used as precursors to explosives. in order to protect the free movement of goods, it will be necessary to ensure that these substances can be marketed but their sale must be subject to strict regulation. the reduction in sales volumes will be minimal and will be sufficient to ensure that the rationale behind this decision, namely the fight against terrorism, is respected. this can be achieved by a framework of controls which prevent sales in high concentrations and allow a check on the legality of the end use. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - the adaptation of the rules for the recruitment of officials and temporary staff of the european union, in view of the accession of croatia, scheduled for 1 july, was, in my view, a necessary step. therefore, i believe that the adoption of certain derogations for croatian citizens, in compliance with european rules providing for access to institutional staff for nationals of member states, is logical and appropriate.
in writing. − considering that the recruitment rules in the staff regulations stipulate that recruitment should be open to all citizens of the european union, irrespective of nationality, a derogation from the general rules on recruitment of officials and other servants of the european union is necessary in view of the accession of croatia. bearing in mind that this derogation has already been applied with the accession of twelve new countries in 2004 and 2007, and stressing the urgency of this regulation, which should enter into force at the latest by the date of accession of croatia to the european union, in order to avoid jeopardising in particular the recruitment of linguistic staff which would affect the ability of the institution to operate in croatian, which has become the official language of the union i express my vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs anna rosbach on accession to the 'offshore protocol', part of the barcelona convention for the protection of the marine and coastal environment of the mediterranean, to which all the member states bordering the mediterranean are parties. the protocol has proved to be an effective instrument for protecting the environment, with careful regulation of exploration and exploitation activities, the conditions for the granting of authorisations, the use and disposal of pollutants, provisions on safety and the management of emergency plans and monitoring.
in writing. − following the discovery of new fossil fuel deposits in the mediterranean sea, offshore activities in the area are likely to increase in the coming years, and should therefore be regulated. it is important to adopt a body of laws governing the exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil, which guarantee safety and protect the environment. the european parliament has expressed its opinion on the 'offshore protocol' under the 'barcelona convention'. today's vote once again demonstrates the will to build an ever more secure and 'green' europe.
in writing. − the offshore protocol against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed of the mediterranean sea is an important part of the barcelona convention which serves to help a number of member states in the eu. this protocol allows for international cooperation in regard to oil and gas exploitation in the mediterranean sea, establishing requirements for exploration and technology which will improve the safety of these processes and help to safeguard against any negative environmental impact. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the recommendation ms rosbach made on the accession of the eu to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea.
in writing. the need for greater safety of offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector has been dramatically highlighted by recent accidents. it is therefore right that parliament should express its support for the european union's accession to the offshore protocol.
in writing. - the use of natural resources requires constant monitoring by the competent authorities. limiting pollution and forced land use is essential to safeguarding the ecosystem; i therefore voted in favour of the union's accession to the protocol on the protection of the seabed and the subsoil of the mediterranean against pollution. the latest research has revealed new fossil fuel deposits in the subsoil of the mare nostrum, opening the way to new offshore extraction activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the accession of the european union to the protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the sea bed and its subsoil. the protocol entered into force on 24 march 2011 following its ratification by six contracting parties (albania, tunisia, morocco, libya, cyprus and syria) and has not yet been signed or ratified by the union. as offshore activities are expected to increase following the discovery of new fossil fuel deposits in the mediterranean, a possible accident could have immediate effects on a large scale. for this reason, i believe that the eu's ratification of the offshore protocol would be an important element in ensuring a good level of cooperation and a constant, concrete commitment by all mediterranean countries to achieving the highest possible level of safety for offshore activities.
in writing. − the need for greater safety of offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector has been dramatically highlighted by recent accidents, in particular the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010. considering that offshore activities in the mediterranean are set to increase following the discovery of new fossil fuel deposits and that such an incident could have immediate effects on a large scale on a semi-enclosed sea such as the mediterranean, with deleterious consequences for its economy and fragile ecosystems, and undermine the efforts made by the member states bordering the mediterranean to achieve and maintain good environmental conditions in their marine waters, there is a clear need for the sustainable management of offshore activities in the field of hydrocarbons. i also hope that the eu will promote international cooperation to improve offshore safety, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i am in favour of the report on the 'offshore protocol' as i believe that it is necessary to ensure greater safety of offshore activities in the hydrocarbon sector, especially following the dramatic incident in the gulf of mexico in 2010. offshore activities in the mediterranean are set to increase following the discovery of new fossil fuel deposits and such an incident could have immediate effects on a large scale on a semi-enclosed sea such as the mediterranean, with deleterious consequences for its economy and fragile ecosystems, and undermine the efforts of the member states bordering the mediterranean to achieve and maintain good environmental conditions in their marine waters, as required by the marine strategy framework directive. given the importance of this protocol with regard to exploration and exploitation activities in the mediterranean, the disposal of hazardous waste and the removal of disused installations, i hope that it will be respected and implemented with provisions on safety and monitoring.
in writing. − i consider that the european union's accession to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from the exploration for and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil (the 'offshore protocol') is necessary in order to ensure more effective management of the risks inherent in offshore activities. since member states have an obligation to ensure that their marine waters in the mediterranean are in good ecological condition, i welcome the eu's involvement in the development of safety in offshore exploration and exploitation. i would like to stress the need for international cooperation in order to develop more stringent safety standards, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i am very pleased that the house voted in favour of the 'protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil'. the protocol governs exploration and exploitation activities, the granting of authorizations, the removal of installations and the provisions relating to safety in the mediterranean. a protocol is necessary because the management of these activities is not just a matter for the european union but also for all the countries bordering the mediterranean. after the gulf of mexico disaster in 2012, we are all aware that if a disaster like this were to occur in the mediterranean, the consequences could be devastating. the mediterranean is not only a virtually enclosed sea, but also a unique marine ecosystem in terms of its size and diversity. the mediterranean is also a source of economic prosperity for many countries, which live off tourism and the sustainable exploitation of its coasts. we must therefore ensure that tourism and this very fragile ecosystem are best protected by ensuring a good level of cooperation between mediterranean countries in order to achieve the highest possible level of safety for offshore activities. i hope that in future the european parliament will be able to promote a new and even more stringent legislative initiative on this subject.
in writing. − exploration, exploitation and production of hydrocarbons in the mediterranean is set to increase as new fossil fuel deposits are discovered, thus necessitating the sustainable management of these offshore activities. in fact, in addition to having serious economic consequences, an accident would undermine the efforts of the member states bordering the mediterranean to maintain their waters in good environmental condition. the ratification of the protocol therefore represents a significant step forward in this direction and provides a solid basis for ensuring a good level of cooperation and a continuing concrete commitment by all mediterranean countries to achieving the highest possible level of safety in offshore activities.
in writing. - i am in favour of the conclusion of the protocol. the agreement is mutually beneficial. this text is entirely consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fishing.
in writing. − whereas bilateral fisheries agreements with third countries (fpas) are a key element of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp) as they commit the contracting parties to promote responsible and sustainable fisheries policies, the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries. furthermore, stressing that greenland's economy is heavily dependent on fishing and the export of fishery products to the eu and that the fisheries sector generates 6 500 jobs (17% of total employment) and recognising that the current partnership agreement has brought many benefits to both sides and is a cornerstone of eu-greenland cooperation, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i believe that the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, the government of denmark and the local government of greenland is an opportunity to improve the sustainability, financial management and transparency of the fisheries sector. i welcome this partnership agreement, which aims to maintain and strengthen the fisheries relations between the european community and the local government of greenland by establishing a dialogue between the various local actors involved, in order to ensure support for the rational exploitation of fishery resources in greenland's fishing areas. i also think it is particularly important to provide for closer economic cooperation in the fisheries industry in order to protect the interests of each of the parties involved. i am voting in favour in order to support the current priorities of fisheries policy.
in writing. − greenland is one of the 26 overseas countries and territories with which the union has a fisheries partnership agreement. the national fisheries sector is the most important source of income for the economy providing 13% of direct gross value added and 17% of jobs (including the processing sector and other related activities). the fisheries sector accounts for 88% of tangible exports, most of them to the eu. the current agreement, which entered into force in 2007 and expires on 31 december next, provides for fishing opportunities for cod, haddock, pollock, whiting, shrimp, capelin and arctic crab. the new protocol will cover a period of three years from the adoption of the council decision on the signing and provisional application of the protocol and will in practice resume the terms of the previous protocol, with some changes to fishing opportunities and the addition of a suspension clause in the event of violations of fundamental human rights or democratic principles.
in writing. - our intention was to pave the way for the possibility of standing in more than one constituency in the same election. however, due to differences within the council, including on the regulation of the right to vote in the state of residence, no action was taken in time for the 2009 elections. although the new draft does not correspond to the much more ambitious objectives of parliament, it does bring some slight improvement on the present situation in terms of administrative practicality for the potential candidate and for the states concerned. we therefore welcome the council's proposal to relax the requirements for citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals to be able to stand for election to the european parliament. we would like to remind you, however, of our firm intention to pave the way for the possibility of standing as a candidate in more than one constituency during the same election, irrespective of residence requirements, and to improve the regulation of the right to vote in general in the member state of residence. the use of the simplified procedure is justified by the hope that the changes made, which are modest but appreciable, will enter into force in time for 2014.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the casini report. i agree with the council's approval of the draft and that it has decided to use the simplified procedure to deliver a favourable opinion in a short time, so that the amendments made will enter into force before 2014.
in writing. − having regard to the fact that on 12 september 2012 the council approved a text to adopt a directive amending directive 93/109/ec on the conditions necessary for citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals to stand as candidates in elections to the european parliament, the institution should now take note of the council's draft to make the above requirements less stringent. stressing that parliament's original intention was to pave the way for the possibility of standing in more than one constituency in the same election, but that in practice there is no regulation on this matter in eu secondary law and no action has been taken in time for the 2009 elections; and therefore hoping that the new project will be operational in time for the 2014 elections, i express my vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - the amendment of directive 93/109/ec on the conditions governing the exercise of the right to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament by citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals has been the subject of considerable debate. i consider it an important and necessary step to remove the obstacles to the possibility of applying for the exercise of the rights attaching to the citizenship of a member state and i believe that the amendments under consideration can be useful for a political evolution of the union. i am in favour of streamlining the administrative procedures for the potential candidate and making the necessary requirements less rigid.
in writing. - i support the collin-langen report, which aimed to assess the state of implementation of the consumer credit directive 2008/48/ec in order to protect consumers and strengthen the internal market for cross-border consumer credit. the report stresses certain objective factors which make it difficult to implement the directive in the legal systems of the individual member states, such as the very short transposition period, the broad scope of the directive and the need to take account of the reality of individual national economic, social and budgetary situations, which are often different or even completely opposite; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. finally, the report does not fail to focus on consumer rights and the effects of the economic crisis on individuals and households across europe.
in writing. the consumer credit directive has two objectives: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of credit transfers. we believe that the final harmonization of certain essential aspects of credit law has undoubtedly made it possible to raise the level of consumer protection throughout europe considerably. the increase in crossborder consumer credit appears to have been, however, insignificant, perhaps because of the financial market crisis itself. we therefore call on the commission to check the transposition of the directive and to insist on its correct application in the member states. it is also necessary to allow the time necessary for the parties concerned to become accustomed to the new rules and to gain experience. we agree with the rapporteur when she also stresses the need to carry out a thorough assessment of the impact of the directive on the legal and practical level and then, if necessary, propose amendments to the directive on that basis.
in writing. − improving crossborder consumer credit markets would bring european added value in terms of strengthening the internal market. i agree with the rapporteur that there is no need for a revision of the directive, but that we should try to ensure that it is transposed and applied correctly. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - the final harmonization of certain essential aspects of credit law has already undoubtedly made it possible to raise the level of consumer protection in europe considerably. however, the increase in cross-border consumer credit appears to be insignificant, due to the fact that only a few financial institutions offer cross-border consumer credit and that in recent years, due to the financial market crisis, the market has experienced a general decline. in highlighting the importance of verifying the transposition of the directive by the commission and its proper application in the member states, and of a thorough assessment of the impact of the directive on the legal and practical level, and then, if necessary, proposing amendments to the directive on that basis, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - my vote on the report by mrs collin-langen is in favour. the text voted by the committee on the internal market is a balanced text which seems to take account of the real reasons why some of the objectives of the directive have not been achieved. i would, however, have taken greater account of the impact of this crisis on the citizens and the general and consequent distrust of these instruments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i agree with the rapporteur that there is absolutely no need to revise a directive which was voted on only a few years ago.
in writing. - i think that mrs collin-langen's report captures the speed of change in the credit market well. i voted in favour of this because i believe it will have a positive effect on growth and investment. its effectiveness lies in the fact that it pursues two objectives at the same time: on the one hand, consumer protection; on the other hand, the strengthening of the internal market in crossborder consumer credit and the improvement of its functioning. the importance of the adoption of this report lies in its ability to harmonize certain essential aspects of credit law, a feature which makes it possible to protect european consumers more effectively.
in writing. − in a time of economic crisis in europe, it is necessary to impose a high level of consumer protection and to strengthen the internal market in crossborder consumer credit. the vote will achieve both of these objectives by harmonizing certain essential aspects of credit law, which have undoubtedly made it possible to raise the level of consumer protection in europe considerably. in 2011, the commission verified 562 websites related to consumer credit. the results showed that 46% of the websites checked lacked mandatory information in the advertising, 43% of them lacked clear information in the offer regarding the total costs, the duration of the contract as well as some credit-related costs, and 20% of them had misleading cost presentation. the transparency and clarity of consumer credit advertising should also be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs collin-langen's text, which has two objectives: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the internal cross-border market in consumer credit. the final harmonization of certain essential aspects of credit law has undoubtedly made it possible to raise the level of consumer protection in europe considerably. the increase in crossborder consumer credit appears to be insignificant, however. this could be due to the fact that only a few financial institutions offer cross-border consumer credit and that in recent years, due to the financial market crisis, the market has seen a general decline. moreover, the factors hindering cross-border consumer credit are more due to language problems or lack of personal contact with the financial institution than to the legal framework.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote on the own-initiative report by mrs jazłowiecka on the 'social investment pact' because, although it is a document denouncing the deep economic, social and employment crisis affecting europe, while identifying shared objectives on which to act such as the fight against youth unemployment, coordination between the academic and the labour market, the creation of more stable pension models, support for smes, it is resolved by focusing on the scenario analysis without proposing convincing recovery actions useful in pursuing the proposed objectives.
in writing. − the crisis has long-term effects on the employment rate, public saving and social investment in europe. most responses to the crisis are short-term, and aim to restore sustainability; however, it is worth looking a little further: we must not ignore the negative effects that austerity measures can have on employment and competitiveness. that is why action is needed to promote employment and to encourage targeted social investment.
in writing. − we are going through a period of severe economic crisis, which requires great efforts both in terms of social and political cohesion. the unemployment rate, especially among young people, the difficulties of access to credit for small and mediumsized enterprises and the level of competitiveness of our companies are some of the crucial points on which action must be taken as soon as possible if we are to find a way out of the crisis together. the text in question, for which i voted in favour, aims to indicate some possible solutions to the problem. it calls for joint and coherent eu action to make effective the efforts demanded of european citizens by national governments. i believe, however, that all these legislative proposals cannot be properly implemented unless we proceed with the adoption of an appropriate multiannual financial framework aimed at implementing growth and employment in the eu. i hope that the negotiations between the member states will soon take a positive turn for the european recovery.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis is certain to have significant long-term effects not only on the european economy but also on the employment rate, public saving and social investment in europe. we believe it is essential to respond to these major challenges with well-targeted social investment. in addition to ensuring the sustainability of public finances, member states must now focus equally on productivity, the distribution of labour, and education and training. social investment is important to restore a proper level of employment and to improve europe's competitiveness: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is therefore urgent to create a coordinated eu approach: calls on the member states to sign a 'social investment pact' which will enable a better governance and control mechanism to be set up for the implementation of the employment, social and education objectives of europe 2020. we call on the commission and the council to ensure that the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, currently under discussion, contains the necessary budgetary resources for social investment in europe.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises have a great potential for job creation and play a crucial role in the transition to a new sustainable economy. it is necessary to urge the commission to take all possible measures to encourage and assist member states to sign the 'social investment pact' and to introduce the evaluation of employment, social and education objectives in the european semester 2013. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i fully share the political message that parliament intends to send to the commission and the member states with the jazłowiecka report and that is why i voted in favour of its adoption. the economic and financial crisis cannot be tackled by cuts in the strategic sectors of employment, education and social affairs. to boost the economy, the europe 2020 strategy must give these sectors a place among the priority objectives. social, labour and education policies are the backbone on which to graft an eventual economic recipe. they cannot be ignored.
in writing. − most recent and current responses to the crisis are based on short-term objectives, aimed primarily at restoring the sustainability of public finances, which is crucial for the eu economy. however, the current economic and financial crisis is certain to have significant long-term effects not only on the european economy but also on the employment rate, public saving and social investment in europe. it is therefore necessary to complement these austerity measures with measures aimed at promoting employment, such as targeted social investment, which prepare individuals, households and societies to adapt to the various transformations and to manage their transition to more flexible labour markets. in stressing the importance of social investment as a policy-encompassing instrument and as a means of restoring a suitable level of employment in the future and improving europe's competitiveness, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the consequences of the current economic and financial crisis will linger for a long time, negatively affecting the european economy, the employment rate, public saving and social investment in europe. this situation is compounded by the various austerity measures which, while restoring the sustainability of public finances, have a negative effect on employment and european competitiveness. i support this report, which i consider to be a very important step forward. i believe that the emergency situation requires a coordinated approach by all the countries of the union and i recognize the need for measures to promote employment, stimulate growth and alleviate economic problems, such as encouraging adequate social investment to ensure the creation of skilled jobs and continuing vocational training.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis is certain to have significant long-term effects not only on the european economy but also on the employment rate, public saving and social investment in europe. following the economic and social crisis, the unemployment rate stood at over 10% in the eu-27 in january 2012. in addition, europe is facing extremely serious problems with youth unemployment, which creates the risk of exclusion from the labour market and, in the longer term, losses of human capital. this vote, in order to restore sustainable growth in europe, is responding with well-targeted social investment aimed at preparing individuals, families and societies to adapt to the various transformations and to manage their transition to more flexible labour markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion because these promotion measures will make eu agricultural policy clearer and will cover all agricultural products that meet the quality standards. based on this working methodology food safety will be better ensured. the motion lists a host of important measures including working to implement the fruit and milk in schools program, along with measures to ensure quality wine is marketed to an adult audience with necessary information on consumption. also very important this motion calls for the state of origin of eu products to be indicated. this will help protect made in brand and other eu products overseas from faux versions.
in writing. - i have fully supported this report, which i consider to be an important step towards a renewed understanding of the role that promotion and information must play in the european agri-food system. the direction taken by the text voted today is that of increasing awareness of the concepts of quality and food safety, the origin of products and their now necessary combination with those of profitability and the globalisation of markets. the challenges facing agri-food and agri-industry operators must find in this proposal and in the one on the cap for 2014-2020 a common front of intentions and values that make the made in europe a healthy food and wine basket for consumers and profitable for producers.
in writing. - we agree with the rapporteur that the time has come to define more clearly a policy for the promotion of european agricultural products, aimed at both stimulating and rewarding: the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide a financial contribution to the development of the regions concerned. an implicit objective should of course be to increase farmers' incomes by focusing on products that allow the use of supply management tools. promotion measures should draw attention to a 'flavour of europe' that is authentic, varied and pleasing to the consumer. the european union should make efforts to make a sustainable model of agriculture exportable, as all its products must be sustainable. much more can certainly be done, particularly in the context of the 'milk in schools' and 'fruit in schools' programmes, to support grassroots activities that show schoolchildren firsthand how food is produced and how life is lived in rural areas, by taking them on farm visits. educational promotion activities should go beyond explaining the benefits of a diet rich in fresh fruit and vegetables and also explain what it is, how the eu's common agricultural policy itself works.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr bové’s report on promotion measures and information provision for agricultural products because it expands an important and necessary portion of the common agricultural policy (cap). while the cap currently has several types of promotion measures in place, it is important to expand these measures to encourage economic growth in the agri-food sector. the european agri-food sector has the ability to prosper and assist economic stabilisation in the member states, and developing more extensive promotion measures both for the internal european market and for external market shares. for these reasons, it is important that local, regional, and external promotion measures are adopted, with the focus placed on short food-supply chains and local farming systems.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that the internal market promotion policy and the external market promotion policy should receive the same attention, as both bring benefits to producers and consumers. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve the policy of information and promotion of european agricultural products. it is necessary to defend and protect our quality products and to make their properties and characteristics better known. a good communication campaign can be of great help, bringing benefits in terms of increased sales and consumption. the emphasis is on the need to promote local products by encouraging the development of the short supply chain and local and regional markets. the extra-eu dimension is also important, as there are countries where many of our counterfeit agricultural products are still present and a heavy awareness-raising campaign is therefore needed. finally, the union's increased commitment to co-finance the 'fruit in schools' and 'milk in schools' programmes is welcome: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's food policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not only a matter of food policy but also of food policy.
in writing. - we are discussing today the policy of information and promotion of agricultural products in europe and the strategy to be adopted to promote the flavours of our land. the european agri-food sector can become increasingly competitive at global level if we can effectively promote our food diversity and our production model, characterised by high standards of productivity, safety, animal welfare and environmental sustainability. the globalisation of trade is growing ever larger, opening up new markets and offering new opportunities to generate the growth we need to get out of the economic crisis. we must not forget that european products have always been very attractive to consumers in the major markets of third countries and should therefore benefit from targeted and strengthened promotional schemes. i therefore agree with the members who want to see the budget increased for more effective promotion and information measures. i also fully support the 'fruit in schools' and 'milk in schools' programmes which aim to promote healthy food education among the youngest, even from the earliest age.
in writing. - much has already been done in the field of information and promotion of european agricultural products: the common agricultural policy (cap) currently has a wide range of promotion instruments, which have been developed for different reasons and have different types of beneficiaries. however, whereas in the past promotion measures were defined to address agricultural surpluses and food crises, it is now necessary to define more clearly a promotion policy, aimed at stimulating and rewarding the quality and sustainability of european products. i hope that the promotion policy will help to increase farmers' incomes and to export a sustainable model of agriculture and to promote local markets, and i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i support mr bové's proposals to promote the tastes of europe. farmers, and especially small farmers, increasingly need support and legal tools to cope with global competition in agricultural markets both within the eu and internationally. i think it is particularly important to promote local markets by developing short supply chains and quality and origin labels as a means of ensuring better incomes for farmers. this approach could prove particularly important in mountain areas, where the permanence of high-altitude agriculture is one of the most important vehicles for avoiding abandonment and degradation of the land and the environment.
in writing. - i am in favour of the text under consideration, which aims to implement a policy of information and promotion of agricultural products. i believe that in order to ensure a good and proper diet, the consumer must be informed and the origin of the product must be indicated on the label. this is the only way to ensure food security. this policy aims to promote local markets by developing the short supply chain (km 0) while at the same time expanding market opportunities within the eu. i am also in favour of promoting information campaigns on quality wines, aimed at responsible consumption and - not to be underestimated - the need to educate children on the importance of a healthy and balanced diet based on quality fruit, vegetables, etc. the quality policy for agricultural products must therefore provide producers with the tools to better identify and promote products with specific characteristics and protect them from unfair practices.
in writing. - in march this year, the european commission published a communication on the promotion and information tools for agri-food products, which will be followed, most likely next year, by a legislative text. the willingness of the institutions to promote food products (see the 'fruit in schools' programme) is once again proposed in this report. what we are asking in the text is that the information and promotion tools currently available for european food products be further developed and adapted in order to ensure a coherent, efficient promotion policy which is able to strengthen the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and at the same time make the consumer aware of the high quality of european agricultural products. in fact, in response to consumer concerns, farmers in europe are facing increasingly stringent food safety, environmental and animal welfare standards than their competitors in the rest of the world. the agri-food sector has the potential to be a strong and vibrant sector for economic growth and innovation in all member states. it can help to increase agricultural income, create jobs and generate growth. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european union has a duty to support the development of local and sustainable agriculture and to promote the diversity of its products. whereas in the past promotion measures were defined to address agricultural surpluses and food crises, there is now a need to define more clearly a promotion policy aimed at stimulating and rewarding the production of specific products, including in quality schemes and agricultural practices that produce less co2 emissions, while protecting biodiversity and maintaining the quality of soils and water resources. promotion policy must therefore, as far as possible, focus on funding projects that meet both of these broad objectives which are, in many cases, compatible. an implicit objective must be to increase farmers' incomes by focusing on products which allow the use of supply management tools.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important resolution because i share its spirit and objectives. the european art and antiques market has a significant impact on the global market. it therefore deserves our utmost attention and protection, especially in the face of increasing competition from third countries. i was particularly struck by the impressive rise of china in this sector and the shift in the centre of gravity of the art market to emerging countries. i therefore believe that europe must make every effort to strengthen the european market and the european position on the world stage. as regards, in particular, the right of succession, i think it is right and proper that artists should be able to receive continuous remuneration for their works of art over time, especially for younger artists, who very often sell their works at a low price at the beginning of their career in order to make themselves known. moreover, this right does not adversely affect the market or the location of the market. finally, the provision of a copyright on a work of art on subsequent sales of the original can reasonably be a valid instrument to avoid discrimination against the artists themselves and i consider its introduction into the legal systems of several third countries to be a positive factor.
in writing. - the subject of intellectual property rights is certainly complex and raises questions of undoubted relevance to the protection of the rights of artists, all the more so in the context of an expanding and increasingly globalised sector. this directive sets out the rules governing the 'right of succession', that is to say, the right of the author of a work of art to the subsequent sales of the original. this is a very delicate issue and raises a number of problems, especially in relation to those who are at the lower end of the market and who are therefore harmed by the costs of administering the right itself. i share the rapporteur's call for the protection and safeguarding of young artists entering the market, who certainly need greater guarantees to be competitive.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. these measures are important to ensure that authors of graphic and plastic works of art have an economic share in the success of their creations and to harmonise the application of this right in the eu. on this second point it is useful to recall that the quality of the administration of the right of resale varies from one member state to another.
in writing. the directive on the right of the author of a work of art to the resale of the original (hereinafter referred to as the 'right') was designed with the dual objective of ensuring that authors of graphic and plastic works of art have an economic share in the success of their creations and of harmonising the application of this right in the european union. however, in reality, the quality of the administration of the resale right varies from one member state to another and, as a result, the burden may be particularly heavy for those at the lower end of the market, who are most affected by the costs of administration of the right. furthermore, considering that the right of retention has no negative impact on the location of the art market or on the level of turnover, and wishing for greater cooperation by the commission with the parties concerned to strengthen the position of the european art market, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − as the art market has recently experienced a very significant overall increase, it is no longer possible to underestimate its impact on the global economy. the directive in question, by establishing the right on subsequent sales of works of art, also known as the 'right of sale', has facilitated the harmonisation of legislation in this field, so that artists receive fair treatment within all european art markets. in my view, the interests of artists, especially young emerging artists, must be given concrete consideration if, through the regulation on the application of the right of resale, it is possible to remove the administrative obstacles to the functioning of the art market. i believe that through our commitment, it is possible to strengthen and support the art market. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - in parliamentary democracy, the link between the public nature of debates and votes and democratic accountability is essential. if we do not give the european citizens the opportunity to know what their elected representatives have said and how they voted, i wonder: "are they in a position to be called to account for their actions when voting is resumed?" the revision of article 70 of the regulation, by incorporating into the binding part of the regulation certain key elements of the 'code of conduct on negotiations in the context of the ordinary legislative procedure', will make the procedures more effective, more transparent and above all more inclusive. i am convinced that the excellent work done and the measures contained in the report will increase transparency and thus the accountability of the elected representatives, and this will lead to a strengthening of representative democracy at european level.
in writing. - the reform of article 70 of the regulation has been desirable for some time, because of the need to implement in practice the fundamental principles of democracy and transparency of action. this will be achieved by incorporating some of the key elements of the code of conduct on negotiations in the context of the ordinary legislative procedure. more specifically, these changes relate to the commission's preliminary decisions on the negotiations, which are a sine qua non for the opening of negotiations, and to the periodic reports which the commission is required to submit on the progress of the negotiations. the amendment is particularly welcome in view of the new and clearer way of interpreting the code and the correct way of conducting negotiations. democracy, transparency and due procedural flexibility are further guaranteed by this innovation. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the light of what i have said here in summary.
in writing. - the amendment of article 70 of the regulation on interinstitutional negotiations in the framework of legislative procedures is closely linked to the idea of ensuring higher levels of transparency during the discussions and votes on the negotiations. i believe that the introduction of binding rules for negotiations in the framework of legislative procedures can have a positive effect on the need for the streamlining and efficiency of procedures which are so far too cumbersome. i am very much in favour of the proposal to introduce a procedure which is more flexible on the one hand, but which does not derogate from a thorough political discussion in cases of particular importance. we have here the opportunity to assure the electorate that their representatives are acting in accordance with the principle of democratic accountability by ensuring that the debates and votes are public. i believe that these amendments can help to strengthen representative democracy at european level, and i therefore vote in favour of them.
in writing. - the present requirements required a strong response from the european parliament, both in terms of effectiveness and in terms of efficiency and cost savings. statistics from 2011 show that no member has ever requested a translation of the full minutes of the debates into his own language. it was a pointless and unnecessary expense that rightly should have been limited. i fully agree with the solutions in the report and with the work done by mr ilchev. the computer database, in particular, from which citizens can access all the video recordings translated into all the official languages, is certainly an effective solution for preserving european multilingualism.
in writing. − given the economic context in which we operate and the many commitments made by parliament in the 2012 budgetary procedure, it seems correct and appropriate to limit the use of the dual translation system as being excessively costly and not indispensable. in fact, an audio-visual recording of the discussions is provided with real-time interpretation in all languages. article 181 now provides for a full report of the discussions in all languages. such a practice requires four months' work and does not require remuneration for the interpreters involved. in the light of the amendment to rule 181, the full report will continue to exist in the form of a multilingual document in which the speeches are transcribed in the original language and translated only into english, so as to economize the de quo procedure without in the least impairing the final objective. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the light of what i have said here in summary.
in writing. - in response to the austerity measures adopted by the member states, the european parliament also took some decisions on administrative cuts. this is the basis for the decision to restrict the translation of the full report of the discussions. the limitation of the current dual system of translation and interpretation, which involves rather high costs, is a small contribution by the parliamentary institution in view of the current context of economic crisis. i also believe that by adopting a single multilingual document, two important requirements can be met. on the one hand, to limit expenditure and, on the other, to avoid the creation of a hierarchy among the official languages of the european union by choosing a single language.
in writing. - finally, european and italian producers benefit from the simplification of european legislation; the regulation adopted today replaces more than a dozen existing directives on this subject. today's vote shows how we want a europe with more security and more protection for the environment. the proposal lays down stricter safety and emission rules for two-wheel vehicles and improves the functioning of the internal market. the new regulation will come into force in 2016 and will cover all two- and three-wheeled motor vehicles, from mopeds to the most powerful motorcycles.
in writing. − more than 70% of the eu's population lives in urban areas and around 85% of the eu's gdp is produced in cities. all major european cities are aiming to reduce congestion, accidents and pollution. improving type-approval requirements for l-category vehicles can facilitate the transition to more efficient, safe and clean urban mobility. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - given the genuine objective of this proposal for a regulation, which is to improve the functioning of the internal market and to increase its efficiency, it is hoped that the proposed requirements for l-category vehicles will be effective in promoting safer and cleaner urban mobility. the number of l-category vehicles on the road in europe is now over 30 million. the commission proposes to simplify the current regulatory framework and to add a point concerning the introduction of new administrative and technical requirements, particularly in view of the environmental and safety aspects of the motorcycle. in fact, drivers of l-category mopeds are at much higher risk of fatal accidents than drivers of other vehicles. it is for this reason that it is proposed to introduce specific regulations to limit these devastating problems. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the light of what i have said here in summary.
in writing. - today we have given the green light to new rules that will make motorcycles safer and greener. from 2016, the rules will have to apply to all two- or three-wheeled motor vehicles, from mopeds to the most powerful motorcycles. these vehicles are involved in 16% of the fatalities on european roads, although they account for only 2% of road traffic, and that is why we have approved stricter safety requirements, as well as imposing stricter targets to reduce polluting emissions. of course, the responsibility for safe motorcycling lies primarily with the rider, but there is always some scope for making these vehicles safer and cleaner. among the new rules to make motorcycles safer is the requirement for motorcycles over 125 cc to have the anti-lock braking system (abs), while the abs or a full braking system (cbs) can be adapted to less powerful versions (under 125 cc), including scooters.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of this report because it will simplify the current regulatory framework and introduce new administrative and technical requirements relating to environmental, safety and market surveillance aspects of two- and three-wheel motor vehicles and quadricycles. the aspects which, in my view, merit more attention are: the identification of a scope of the directive so as to eliminate certain inconsistencies and to meet the production categories, simplicity and clarity for the application timetable so as to avoid that producers would find excessive obstacles if they were called upon to introduce the novelties required by the rules without an adequate time-frame, the required environmental requirements whose adaptation does not represent an excessive burden for producers.
in writing. - i can only welcome the proposal for a regulation on the typeapproval of two- or three-wheel motor vehicles and quadricycles and on market surveillance. the new measures will not only simplify the regulatory framework but also improve environmental, safety and market surveillance aspects. i believe that we need to be more rigorous in our emission standards, which, along with the introduction of a legal framework covering hybrid and electric vehicles, are essential to achieving functional environmental objectives. in my view, addressing the issue of road safety here, considering the need to make drivers fully aware by emphasizing human behaviour when driving, is an important step towards the reaction of more efficient urban mobility. i hope that the introduction of new rules will also be accompanied by better market surveillance to ensure that vehicles which do not comply with the type approval requirements do not enter the market. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for mr van de camp's text on the new regulation on the typeapproval of two- or three-wheel motor vehicles and quadricycles and on market surveillance. safety will be improved by the introduction of abs on all motorcycles over 125 cc and by new proposals also for position lights to improve visibility on the road. as regards exhaust emissions, the vehicles concerned will have to be type-approved to the euro 3 standard from 1 january 2016, while compliance with the euro 5 limits will apply from 2016.
in writing. the report under discussion is of particular importance because it provides for the adoption of a regulation, which has been requested by european industry for more than 20 years, on the typeapproval of tractors and agricultural vehicles. this new regulation, in my view, will fill one of the major gaps in the harmonization of the union market for agricultural and construction machinery. the regulation contains a number of positive points, especially for the italian tractor and agricultural vehicle industry: a single legislative framework is envisaged to cover all aspects of the operational safety of tractors, both in road traffic and in field work operations. in particular, with the entry into force of the new regulation, all safety aspects will be translated into legal provisions which will constitute a closed list of requirements which can be verified at the time of vehicle type-approval and which can be updated rapidly as the state of the art evolves. i also welcome the exclusion of mobile machinery - originally envisaged in the commission proposal - from the scope of the regulation in question, as these machines have characteristics which are far removed from those of agricultural tractors. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to refer this type of machinery to an ad hoc regulation.
in writing. - my full support for mr panzeri's report is justified by the message of simplification which we want to apply to the agricultural world. it is a major and complex effort, but it has achieved a result that is widely shared. moreover, the introduction of common technical requirements at european level increases the potential for competitiveness on the markets but, above all, lays the foundations for a level of technology to be observed in order to protect the physical integrity of european farmers in the course of their activity.
in writing. − the existing directives on non-road mobile machinery do not include harmonised requirements for road safety. in order to complete the internal market and ensure a high level of road safety, it is necessary to develop an appropriate instrument at union level to harmonise the provisions relating to mobile machinery. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text, which aims to establish common rules for the typeapproval of agricultural and forestry vehicles. this agreement represents a good compromise between the need to establish adequate safety standards and environmental protection, without at the same time penalizing the producers in the sector excessively. the text also provides for improvements in the repair and maintenance of these vehicles, on the one hand by ensuring wider access to the information needed for such operations, without this however being a condition or limitation for those who are specifically concerned with this sensitive area of intervention. i want to make one final point about the so-called quads: i think it is right that a distinction has been made between these vehicles for agricultural use and those for recreational or transport purposes only. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market.
in writing. the aim of this proposal is to harmonise the rules governing the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles. the aim of this is to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market while also ensuring greater protection of the environment, road safety and safety at the workplace. the proposal is aimed, particularly in the latter area, at simplifying the legislation on typeapproval, thus contributing to increased competitiveness in the sector. in the field of competition, the provisions relating to bodies to which member states may delegate certain assessment tasks have been strengthened in order to limit distortions of competition, in particular those caused by the application of different performance standards imposed by third parties during vehicle tests, inspections and assessments. the proposal also seeks to fill the gap in the existing reference legislation, which lacks requirements aimed at harmonizing road safety. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the light of what i have said here in summary.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour of this measure as it allows for an update of the type-approval rules for agricultural and forestry vehicles in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market, while at the same time keeping in mind the need for a high level of environmental protection and road safety. a notable aspect is that concerning access to vehicle repair and maintenance information. the need to provide useful information for vehicle repair was balanced by the need not to provide valuable data to competitors, especially asiatica, which was interested in copying the best technical solutions in the sector.
in writing. − by simplifying the current legislation on the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles, it will be possible to ensure higher levels of protection in terms of both road safety and workplace safety. the union-wide type-approval procedure for all vehicle categories also contributes to improving the competitiveness of the sector. the new technologies introduced will have to meet two requirements: on the one hand, to promote regulatory simplification; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i think that detailed requirements should be introduced on health and safety requirements and on post-market surveillance and control of products entering the european union market. i am aware of the complexity of the situation, and i believe that these changes in the legislation are necessary and i therefore vote in favour of them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr panzeri's text, which aims to establish a set of harmonised standards for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles - tractors, trailers and towed equipment - in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market, while at the same time keeping in mind the need for a high level of environmental protection and road and work safety. the proposed regulation also simplifies the current legislation on type-approval, replacing 24 basic directives and some 35 other directives amending them.
in writing. - i agree with what mr terho said about applying common rules and standards to the digital single market for electronic payments made by card, internet or mobile phone. it is important to create a more integrated, secure, data-respecting payments market, where electronic payment charges are transparent and cost-effective. unfortunately, only 35% of online shoppers still use e-commerce today, a number that is still limited due to the persistent problems with electronic payments. i believe, as commissioner reding has said, that this report is a good starting point for the creation of a digital market where there is no longer any difference between the national and the crossborder level.
in writing. − the variety of payment instruments, both at european and world level, is growing steadily. although new ways of using card and mobile payments appear to be emerging rapidly, the card payment market is still far from its true potential. i agree with the rapporteur in recognising the benefits of promoting and increasing card, internet and mobile payments, with the aim of giving european consumers and businesses the opportunity to have access to safer, faster, more flexible and cost-effective payment methods. however, the markets for card, internet and mobile payments in the union are still fragmented and there are significant differences in the use of card payments between countries. i believe that common rules for payments, if well designed and properly implemented, could both enhance the competitiveness of the card payments market and improve its security. while i share the commission's general objective of developing common rules for the member states, i would draw its attention to the real difficulty of shortening the life cycle of the current national and regional rules for card payments and suggest that targeted action be taken to this end.
in writing. − harmonisation of payment systems via mobile devices, the internet or cards is increasingly needed to ensure that the most vulnerable consumers are protected and properly informed when using these payment methods. a more harmonized system of online payments between the various member states will also give a new impetus to an already strongly growing sector. there is no doubt that this type of trade has certain aspects which must be monitored and evaluated carefully, including through a proper combination of the interests of operators and those of consumers, but i believe, in the spirit of the report, that with some measures the objective can be achieved.
in writing. − as integration between the member states of the union is becoming more harmonious, it is necessary to analyse which elements need to be mitigated in order to pursue this objective even more fully. in this connection, it is necessary to take account of the fact that at european level, as well as at world level, the variety of payment instruments is constantly growing. in the light of this assessment and recognising the functionality of payments made by card, internet and mobile phone, the commission published a green paper on the obstacles preventing the functioning of these forms of payment in the european market, thus limiting greater efficiency. the creation of the single european payments area (sepa) aims to integrate the card payments market in order to make cross-border payments as convenient as national payments. the time needed to achieve this objective appears to be rather long. if integrated rules are developed with due care, they could not only enhance the competitiveness of the card payments market, but also improve payment security. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the light of what i have said here in summary.
in writing. − the rapid spread of new modes of payment methods means that the european payments market needs to be adapted to make it more efficient. consumers who take advantage of card, internet and mobile payments should be provided with safer and more cost-effective means of payment. i cannot help stressing the fragmentation of payment markets, with considerable differences between member states, which makes payment techniques less and less convenient and flexible. i therefore believe that harmonisation factors should be introduced to make crossborder payments as convenient as national payments. the entry into the field of common safety techniques is essential to ensure high levels of transparency for consumers. i hope that this sector will be a positive innovation and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. − the 2008 crisis, which has taken on a global dimension, started with financial services, whose weaknesses it has revealed. these include regulatory gaps, ineffective supervision, opaque markets and overly complex products. the international response was coordinated through the g20 and the financial stability board. in particular, the g20 deliberated on a whole range of regulatory measures aimed at making the financial system safer and more sustainable. since then, among a multitude of other measures, capital requirements for financial institutions have been strengthened, a first step towards stricter regulation of credit rating agencies has been taken and a new financial supervisory architecture has been developed. however, in my view, despite these new regulatory frameworks, a considerable part of credit intermediation is still not sufficiently supervised and regulated. i agree with the rapporteur that activities in the shadow banking system can have a positive effect on the economy by contributing to a greater allocation of risks outside the traditional banking sector, but only if this is done in the presence of a situation of transparency in the financial transactions market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to clarify the so-called shadow banking system. these are entities and bodies that operate in parallel and sometimes in an obscure manner to the traditional and more regulated financial markets. the shadow banking system was estimated to have a worldwide turnover of some eur 50 trillion last year, a frightening figure and a considerable increase over previous years: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial markets are not affected by the crisis. the report therefore aims to monitor these activities better, and the implications and interconnections with the 'official' system. the financial crisis has been at the root of this crisis, which has also affected the real economy and industry, and it is therefore right and proper to take all the measures that can lead to greater transparency and regulation in this sector, which is so important, but which cannot and must not lead to the ruin of all citizens.
in writing. the global crisis we are in began when the market realised that mortgage securitisation was subject to incentives which led to a lowering of lending standards, the so-called subprime mortgages. in view of what has happened, it is increasingly important to make the connection between traditional banks and the shadow banking system transparent in order to counter this relationship from a regulatory point of view. therefore, in order to have a complete picture of the shadow banking system, it is essential to obtain complete and reliable data on it. indeed, some aspects of the shadow system may have beneficial effects on the real economy, while others may lead to dramatic situations and high systemic risk. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the light of what i have said here in summary.
in writing. - when we talk about shadow banking, we are talking about a system of credit intermediation that allows the transit of money without rules and outside the boundaries of traditional banking channels, a system that is growing at the rate of 6 trillion dollars a year. the operations of this system are blamed for many of the causes of the crisis that brought the world financial system to its knees. i believe that we need a regulatory framework to prevent dangerous practices. it is our duty to evaluate the advisability of new and profound changes which will make up for the lack of transparency and clear rules. the regulation and supervision of credit assets in the so-called 'shadow banking system' will help to prevent the risk of future crises and ensure financial stability. given the need to define the application of this parallel system and to identify the risks involved, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - inexperienced and naive navigators, including minors, face various risks when navigating without much awareness, protection or supervision, such as the violation of privacy, the commercial or instrumental use of their profiles, addiction, a distorted relationship with reality and their own identity. article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union calls for policies for children to be holistic: a guiding framework directive is therefore needed, regulating the whole subject, and a multi-level governance that encourages harmonisation of the approach in the member states and encourages stronger coordination between them. i welcome the recent introduction, thanks to union co-financing, of sound instruments, first of all the safer internet programme, which is well established in all the countries of the union. i believe that the safer internet programme must be continued and, in particular, that the responsibility for protecting children from cybercrime must be taken over by law enforcement, in an increasingly efficient and cooperative way at european level. in this context, actions to combat online crime against children, which have been successfully developed by some member states that already exchange information, should be encouraged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion because it is an imperative that children in the eu, who are spending increasingly more time online, are protected from the plethora of existing online dangers. a single eu framework directive for children’s rights in the digital world, including instruments and actions such as ‘media education’ and strengthening collaboration between police for stopping crimes online, will aid parents and teachers in protecting children from online danger.
in writing. - the internet is a wonderful tool that allows you to visit millions of sites, access information, watch movies, listen to music. it also poses serious risks, especially for children, who are most at risk. that is why it is important to have voted today on the report which indicates how to improve the use of the internet through, among other things, targeted school programmes involving families. there are various laws in the member states to combat online crime, but sometimes there are considerable legal differences. this report will move us towards greater uniformity. i personally appreciate the establishment of targeted school programmes that also involve families.
in writing. - my full support for mrs costa's report is based on the awareness that this text is the basis for the definition of a more organic framework directive, which will absorb the various provisions on children which have been expressed so far and which appear in the previous body of legislation. the digital reality is, on the one hand, a field whose development is synonymous with a technologically advanced economy but, on the other hand, it highlights discrepancies and distortions of use that seriously jeopardise the safety of minors. i therefore believe that it is essential to promote a common action plan which, taking due account of the cultural and legal gaps existing in different contexts, can in the short and long term prevent and prevent attacks on the safety of children from the digital world.
in writing. − member states continue to promote children's access to the digital world by supporting policies and interventions on access to the network, the regulation of its content, and respect for privacy. the promotion of self-regulation of content has been achieved through the safer internet programme, an eu co-financing instrument that is well established in all eu countries and will ensure overall coordination until 2013. we are aware of the cultural and legal differences between member states, which make it difficult to draw a line between content and behaviour that should be punished and 'grey' content, and we support the idea of distinguishing between illegal content and behaviour that may have serious consequences and behaviour that is not appropriate for a particular age. to this end, we believe it is appropriate to ensure the continuity of the safer internet programme and, in any case, to ensure that the responsibility for protecting children from cybercrime is taken over by the police, in an increasingly efficient and cooperative manner at european level. self-regulation has proved a useful way forward but has shown limitations that need to be corrected: it is therefore necessary that member states commit themselves to protecting children in the digital world by promoting any form of mastery of its codes to ensure access to technology but protection from harmful content.
in writing. − children are increasingly more exposed to digital media through television programming and internet access, raising concerns about internet safety and harmful online content. ms costa’s report on protecting children in the digital world seeks to establish precautions at the european level and to encourage member states to adopt initiatives as well. by focusing on education and integrating digital media into schools, the school system can provide access for all children while teaching them how to use new media safely. certainly, digital media has become an integral part of society, and it is necessary for the eu and member states to show dedication to regulating its safe use and allowing all citizens to have access, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − protecting children in the digital world requires a leap in the regulatory pipeline. we must adopt more decisive measures, including self-regulation, which will require the sector to assume its share of responsibility. an important role must be played by the education and training of children, parents and teachers. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the age at which young people enter the digital world has fallen dramatically in recent years; it is not uncommon for children as young as ten years old, if not earlier, to be able to surf the web freely, with all the risks that this can entail. some of the figures are alarming when you consider, for example, that 15 percent of internet users between the ages of 10 and 17 receive some form of sexual advances, and that as many as 34 percent of them encounter sexually explicit material without having asked for it. children are much more exposed and vulnerable to being deceived and abused, which is why they must be explicitly protected, as article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union also clearly provides. this report highlights some important points, such as the need to increase cooperation between the different authorities in the member states and also with those in non-eu countries: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. i have therefore decided to support this report, which can lay the foundations for greater protection and safety for children.
in writing. the data speak for themselves: european children are online from the age of nine on average; but there are cases that are much earlier, before school age and literacy. 38% of children in the 9-12 age group and 77% in the 15-16 age group are registered on a social network. in their profile, 16% use a fictitious identity and 27% of 9-12 year olds declare an age higher than their real age, also claiming that they can express themselves more easily online than face to face. in the light of this disarming premise, it should be pointed out that these inexperienced and naive navigators are constantly victims of child pornography, violation of privacy, commercial fraud. the safer internet programme must therefore be continued so that the protection of minors against cybercrime is increasingly effectively and cooperatively managed by law enforcement agencies at european level. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the light of what i have said here in summary.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal by mrs costa on the protection of minors in the digital world. it has been estimated that children spend up to 40 hours a week watching television and 88 minutes a day online. in many cases, young people are using the internet long before they are in school. i am therefore convinced that they must be protected from harmful and violent content and from any violation of their privacy by means of european legislation.
in writing. − digital citizenship is a fundamental element of the european union, to create aware citizens, protagonists of e-democracy processes. the first issue to be tackled today is certainly the digital divide and, in particular, the protection of the most vulnerable groups, including minors. the adoption in the culture committee of the report on the protection of young people in the digital world lays the foundations for a more organic framework directive, which can complement all the provisions concerning children in previous eu legislation. the successful actions taken by some member states to combat online crime should be encouraged. but the cultural and legal differences between them do not allow for a clear definition of the content to be sanctioned. the self-regulation adopted so far has proved useful but has shown limits which need to be corrected by a framework of uniform rights, which counters behaviour which can have serious consequences for young europeans. this report sets the stage for greater uniformity in the way we deal with the problems.
in writing. - statistics show that european children spend up to 40 hours a week watching television. they are online 88 minutes a day (2 hours for 15/16 year olds), starting on average at 9 years old, but with cases much earlier, preceding school age and literacy. the internet is a child's companion, often more than family, school and friends. between the ages of 9 and 16, children use computers for schoolwork and games (100%) and also to watch video clips (86%), to play with others, download videos and music and exchange p2p (56%) and finally for file sharing, visiting chatrooms, blogs and virtual worlds (23%). the vote will be taken to achieve the following objectives: access to and education in the media and new media; protection, distinguishing between the fight against illegal content and the fight against inappropriate content and behaviour, the protection of privacy and the right of reply; the digital citizenship.
in writing. the internet is now the companion of european teenagers, often more than their family, friends or schoolmates. and that is why access to the digital world and the competence of its language requires a support and guidance that only an educational alliance between family, school and society can offer. when web browsing is unconscious, unprotected and uncontrolled, as in the case of minors, the risks can be the violation of privacy, health hazards, addiction phenomena, distorted relationship with reality and with one's own identity. although european public broadcasting and multi-platform services have been activating the exchange of best practices and monitoring tools on children's programming for years, much remains to be done. this requires a guiding framework directive that summarises and regulates the whole subject and a governance that encourages harmonisation of approach in the member states and encourages stronger coordination between them and with the european institutions.
in writing. − i voted against this initiative because it does not go far enough to help fix the root problems currently facing the european economy. europe for the time being needs to focus on recovering and regaining economic competitiveness. furthermore to harmonize social enterprises at the community level of member states would be a very difficult task at the current time. the initiative lacks in solid reasoning, making it unclear of what the benefits would be for voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr becker’s report because the social business initiative provides support for a newly developing and important sector of the european economy. given the current difficulties facing businesses and entrepreneurs due to economic hardships, it is crucial that the eu adopts and implements procedures that help to overcome these obstacles. one such measure is established with the social business initiative, which aims to provide assistance to businesses operating within the social economy. the social economy offers an opportunity for entrepreneurs to provide services that have a positive social impact, notably for marginalised or disadvantaged persons.
in writing. − social enterprises can help provide social services, which are key elements of a social state, and thus contribute to the achievement of the common objectives of the european union. this is another reason why action is needed to ensure that social enterprises are not disadvantaged compared to other types of enterprises that would reserve the lucrative sectors of the social economy for themselves.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr becker's report on the european commission's social entrepreneurship initiative as it is a laudable and ambitious programme. investing in social entrepreneurship will provide significant returns not only from a strictly economic point of view - creating new wealth and employment opportunities - but also and above all from a social point of view. the added value of the social enterprise is represented by the pursuit of social inclusion objectives, reintegration into the labour market, provision of services to the most marginalised and at risk of exclusion communities and individuals. i also share the approach of the honourable member, which is to ensure that social enterprises are not exposed to uncontrolled competition and that they receive adequate financial support. in this connection, i hope that appropriate measures will be taken to facilitate access to microcredit for these enterprises. it is also, and above all, thanks to social entrepreneurship that in certain parts of europe lagging behind in development it will be possible to accelerate the process of social and territorial cohesion: the commission will continue to support the development of the social economy by providing support for the development of the social economy and the social economy by supporting the development of the social economy.
in writing. - due to demographic changes, there is an increasing need for social services. in view of this, it should be borne in mind that social entrepreneurship needs additional funding instruments in addition to the community one, namely national and regional instruments. social entrepreneurship combines issues such as public utility, social and environmental impact with factors such as increased profit-sharing or employee participation models and the principles of openness and transparency. as an integral part of the eco-social market economy in the european internal market, social entrepreneurship also needs regulated competition, which leads to continuous quality improvement as well as activities aimed at greater efficiency. therefore, in view of the clear purpose of this proposal, which is to promote the positive development of social entrepreneurship, and in the light of what i have briefly explained here, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − building a fertile ground for the promotion of social entrepreneurship is one of the priority objectives at european level. i believe that social enterprises should be supported, given the essential role they can play in social innovation. think of the provision of services and interventions aimed at improving the quality of people's lives. a lot of energy will have to be channelled into developing initiatives that help strengthen entrepreneurial skills and professionalisation. i believe that a more substantial contribution should be directed towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i think it is appropriate to stress the need for future policies to encourage the specific features of social enterprise while respecting the principles of competition. in order to enhance the social impact and effectiveness of the activities of social enterprises, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − emu is a prerequisite for making eu action effective and for bridging the current political gap between national and european policies. the resolution adopted today accepts that emu will require the building of a 'truly federal europe by amending the eu treaties. much can be done to address the crisis with the current rules, but new legislative proposals in line with the existing treaties are welcome. we therefore assess new legislative proposals, which can be adopted under the current rules, namely fiscal coordination, a social pact to better integrate employment policies and social issues, new rules to improve the functioning of the european semester and a system to give the eu a budget based solely on own resources. but we are also exploring the possibilities that would require a treaty amendment in order to ensure legal certainty and democratic legitimacy.
in writing. − job creation, quality of employment and dignity of work are key to overcoming the current crisis. this will only be possible through greater interdependence and integration between the states. it takes more europe to see the light at the end of the tunnel. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - the report by mrs thyssen is acceptable, not only in its substance, but also in its political and institutional relevance. it is intended to draw attention to the compulsory involvement of the european parliament in the process of promoting emu (economic and monetary union). the report by president van rompuy, which opened the debate on banking, tax and economic union, was welcomed by the thyssen report, which took a broadly shared view of the possibility of amending the treaties and of involving all the member states. i have appreciated the work of mr thyssen and the committee on economic and monetary affairs and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - since the signing of the treaty of rome, the european union has made significant progress in political, economic, fiscal and monetary integration. but certainly, in a globalised information society, the need for greater european integration based on democratic legitimacy, accountability, transparency and support from citizens is becoming increasingly clear. in the light of recent events, the euro area does not have the means to resolve the economic crisis in which we find ourselves. there is a need and urgency to create a genuine economic union in which the europe 2020 strategy is the binding framework for the definition and implementation of economic policies. in view of all these brief premises, it cannot be excluded that further treaty amendments are needed to increase the democratic legitimacy of a fully operational emu. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal in the light of what i have said here in summary.
in writing. - the report by mr thyssen was voted on today in strasbourg. the resolution is a contribution to the road map for economic and monetary union which will be presented in december by the presidents of the european parliament, the council, the commission, the eurogroup and the central bank. the text stresses the need to ensure democratic control over a range of actors, in many cases at eu level, but also through a strengthening of national actors. in particular, the parliaments of the member states should have greater powers of control. the resolution accepts that to achieve a truly complete economic and monetary union, the eu treaties will need to be amended and the document proposes a 'truly federal europe'. the new legislative proposals, which would be adoptable under the current rules, include: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the taxation of workers, such as greater fiscal coordination through the enhanced cooperation mechanism, a social pact to better integrate employment policies and social issues, new rules to improve the functioning of the european semester and a system to give the eu a budget based solely on own resources.
in writing. − stability and lasting prosperity are the challenges facing the eu and to this end i believe it is necessary to commit to strengthening economic and monetary union. i believe that the will to make choices that lead to economic and social well-being can be pursued through some of the key points in this report. for example, the european youth guarantee, a social protocol to protect fundamental labour and social rights and a social protection platform to ensure universal access to healthcare. strong mechanisms of democratic legitimacy and accountability are needed, and in this sense it is necessary to ensure the convergence of the dialogue between national parliaments and the european parliament, ensuring higher levels of cooperation. i believe that deepening economic and monetary union through an eu institutional and legal framework can ensure the creation of an integrated and transparent single market.
in writing. - my vote is in favour of the neuser report. i agree that more attention should be paid to the results of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and that consistency should be ensured between its resolutions and those of the european parliament. i also share the concern about budget cuts in the eu member states for development policy spending.
in writing. − whereas in 2011 the joint parliamentary assembly met twice and carried out two fact-finding missions in the same year, one to east timor and the other to the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness, held in south korea. the above mission was aimed at supporting the country in the development of its democracy: in fact, elections were scheduled for 2012. the quality of its work has enabled the joint parliamentary assembly to establish itself as a key player in north-south cooperation. the assembly has played, and continues to play, an important role in the monitoring of the negotiations for economic partnership agreements (epas). the hearings with the main negotiators from both sides, meetings with economic actors and civil society, and interaction between meps and those from the south, have also helped to make the process more transparent and to take better account of local realities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - the joint parliamentary assembly, through its work, has represented a meeting point between different views on the initiatives undertaken. it also helped to speed up the dialogue between european representatives, through direct contact with the realities of precarious growth conditions and pressing social problems. the adoption of resolutions on the democratic uprisings in north africa and the middle east and on the situation in côte d'ivoire, as well as the special attention paid to climate change and agriculture, demonstrate the will to continue to achieve the objectives set. the app has also provided a valuable opportunity to explore issues such as the food crisis in the horn of africa and the impact of the arab spring on neighbouring sub-saharan states. i hope that the role of the assembly will be further strengthened in the meeting with the economic and civil society actors.
in writing. - as vice-president of the committee on development and member of the acp-eu commission, i welcome the report by mr neuser which stresses the need to pay greater attention to the results of the work of the assembly. among the most important aspects i would like to highlight the importance of the field visits organized on the sidelines of the sessions of the joint parliamentary assembly, which supplement the discussions in the chamber and allow us to understand the difficult situations in which the peoples of the acp countries are called upon to live. finally, in addition to calling for greater involvement of members, it is also necessary to stress the need to ensure a certain degree of consistency between the resolutions of the acp assembly and those of the european parliament.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. i have not been contacted by any shale gas lobby, although i am on the environment committee and believe that it is a resource to be exploited with due care. what i'm asking you is why the same accusation was not made when many of us received thousands of insulting emails, just because we voted in favor of animal testing for scientific purposes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am concerned because i think it is not we who are irresponsible, who are taking a certain position in favour of extracting something which could make europe self-sufficient in terms of fossil fuels, but it is the greens who are criticising it, because they are fine with it - i do not think they are cold, of course - warming up with the same or similar products coming from third countries, where they dig, where they drill, where there is a risk of earthquakes - because if we take oil or gas from under the ground, we create voids in the same way as shale gas is taken from under the ground. so, in that case, it's fine, but in the case of europe, you don't have to do that. we have to pay with our taxpayers' money for goods coming from third countries when perhaps - i repeat, perhaps - we could be self-sufficient in goods produced in our own europe. at this point i am beginning to think that something is wrong and that perhaps the greens have other kinds of unclear interests. i would like to conclude by saying that i think it is important to take care of the environment but not to lose the opportunity to extract something that could make europe economically self-sufficient in terms of oil and gas extraction.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on cases of restructuring in the european car industry (2012/2880(rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is now being asked to play a new role in coordinating industrial policies, and even the most ardent supporters of the autonomy of private enterprise are now calling for this role to be played. without a greater europeanisation of national strategies, including in terms of employment protection, the present crisis will not be overcome and there will be no recovery. the car crisis is not just overcapacity. it's a dramatic loss of employment. but the crisis now seems to be structural and it concerns the very fate of the car, of the product as it is today. we want to keep the car industry in europe and we do not want to scatter existing skills and know-how and professional skills. we therefore call for a major restructuring and relaunching project to be launched and for it to be done quickly, because the costs are proportional to the time. restructuring cannot be the result of fragmented national decisions or individual undertakings. we must at least try to coordinate and guide this painful process at community level, bringing together the parties concerned through social dialogue, producers and trade union forces and the governments of the individual countries, offering support for research, innovation, training of human capital, retraining, the necessary funds. i know that this will be a difficult task, because the national interests of individual companies are not the same. but since the competition in the european union is very ambiguous and sometimes even unfair, i think it is in the interests of all countries to have effective community impetus and guidance to face the increasingly aggressive world market together.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate, which undoubtedly echoes previous debates, gives us a rather limited, in my humble opinion, picture of the problem. we cannot deal with the social problem and the social aspects and consequences of these major restructuring measures, which are not limited to the firms mentioned by the commissioner. i think of the situation at fiat, in my country, where a ceo is, in my opinion, misleading the citizens and especially the employees of fiat by saying: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is lacking here is an industrial policy for the car: the european union is dealing with the beans, but it has not seriously dealt with planning, taking account of developments in the social situation. the market has changed completely and then: europe is awake! do something, because we must maintain and preserve the level and quality and the technological and development capacity of manufacturing and especially of a key sector such as that of the european automobile industry.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we have had a debate in this parliament today on the subjects of industry, growth and employment, which, as the commissioner has just mentioned, began this morning with the debate in the chamber with commissioners tajani and andor and has in fact continued, because we have spoken at length about energy, addressing the problems of the car industry, and we now proceed with the question which i have put forward on behalf of the itre committee and which is being discussed in this house this evening. we have also been assured that we will have a resolution on this subject in december, and i believe that everything we voted for yesterday at the beginning of the sitting serves to reinforce the attention that europe is paying to this subject. the european steel industry is undoubtedly linked to several industrial activities: the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the following sectors: upstream, the steel, iron and steelmaking and the iron and steel alloy industry, and downstream, all industries using these products, in particular automotive, mechanical engineering, construction, pipes and tubes, metal goods, shipbuilding, household appliances, chemicals and other industries. keeping the steel industry active and competitive is vital for the future of europe and its citizens. already at the beginning of the year 2000 europe lost its primacy, giving way to china, and in recent years the european union has chosen to invest heavily in environmental issues - a choice which we share - but this has certainly meant an increase in costs in this area, together with an increase in the price of raw materials, the increasing cost of energy. we must not forget that electricity in europe costs 100% more than in the united states, and, in the case of some member states, even in terms of money. in 2007, european steel production reached all-time highs: in fact, there were 406 thousand units directly employed in the sector in addition to all the other sectors. in the period 2007-2011 we had a decline of 10.6% in employment and today we are at 363 thousand units. there are also some unencouraging data for 2012 and the most worrying is the sharp decline in production in sectors closely related to the steel industry, namely automotive and construction, which suffered a decline in production of 3,2% in the last year alone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research and development programmes are properly implemented. perhaps we should ask ourselves whether, alongside the new industrial policy strategy which the commission has recently adopted, there is no need for sectoral policies which can intervene in a timely manner to reverse dangerous trends which europe cannot afford. we know that the commission is working on an action plan for the steel industry: how far along is he? the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. it is perhaps worth considering whether it is appropriate to put in place policies which will enable our strategic enterprises to be in the best position to face global competition. in order to be innovative, we must imagine that the reindustrialisation of europe must be accompanied by a series of policies which need to be supported, such as research and innovation, which is an indispensable tool. but i would also like to mention the need to revise competition policy, which has remained unchanged since the 1990s and which perhaps no longer takes account of the need for the european economy to compete in a single market and with global competition. the completion of the internal market is crucial to affecting the cost of energy and particular attention should be paid to trade agreements with third countries. in conclusion, perhaps we should also ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to re-establish a council entirely devoted to industry, returning to a pre-2002 station.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank president sartori for having called for this debate. the steel industry, which is central to the european system, is in decline with job losses. first problem: the extra-eu imports. china is the largest supplier, but it is not alone: it is not necessary to say that these countries are in fact producing under unfair conditions of competition, have inadequate rules on environmental protection and workers' rights. more generally, outside the eu, the rules on state aid and duties are much different and less binding, and the cost of energy is lower. commissioner tajani, of course we have great confidence in the steel strategy you are drawing up and i really thank you, also because on several occasions you have said that the eu needs to update the rules on state aid and competition. i would like to refer to terni in this connection: the terni site is an industrial heritage of europe, not just italy. it is among the world's leading manufacturers of stainless steel, high technology, strict quality control, pollution abatement, scrap recycling. in order to avoid a dominant position, the community antitrust authority authorised the sale of the terni site, the forging company and the lba2 production line, leaving the pipeline to the finnish company. the site produced 1 200 000 tonnes of sold: the pipeline is the core business of the site and without it the company risks not being competitive and attractive to potential buyers. that's why there's concern. i'll conclude by saying: how can we ensure a long-term, competitive industrial project that will maintain current market shares and employment levels? what strategies for reducing energy costs? why not introduce a quality certification for steel-related products?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the energy crisis has taken a heavy toll on all employment, on thousands of precarious workers, but also on permanent and temporary workers, who are numerous in this sector. the major steel groups are increasingly turning towards the far east or the americas, and this raises a major question about the direction of our development model. i think europe must recover the idea that a manufacturing system like ours needs solid basic products capable of supplying the european internal market. we must therefore defend this sector and the role of a stable steel industry and we will support it, commissioner, if we are to stop the industrial decline. i think we must also get out of the dualism, which is not echoed here tonight, but which is often heard in discussions on this sector, a dualism between the environmentalists and the workers, which is wrong because it does not give us a vision of the future. an industry which sees steel as an integral part of itself needs advanced production systems, concrete and balanced solutions, which safeguard the different interests, the different needs. we must therefore also have a strong european approach to planning, which focuses on sustainability - which, in my view, is something we must not neglect - as a real added value with which we want to compete in the world, supporting investment, as has been said on many occasions, new technologies, new processes and the upgrading of plants, for a european economy which makes efficient use of resources, including energy resources, and indeed, starting with energy resources and also the search for new and different materials.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the current difficulties facing the european steel industry, i believe, call for a reflection on the role of industry in the union's policies, which does not concern only the limited powers of supplementing - let us say - industry but the overall effect of competition, trade, cohesion and tax policies. if it is true that the economic crisis has shown the central role of manufacturing, then we must correct the approach that has in recent decades favoured consumption over production, services over industry. i think that events, even very different ones, such as the special steels of terni or the pole of piombino, induce some reflection on these points. for example, in the field of competition policy, a global, not just a european, perspective should be taken in assessing dominant positions. and then, as regards the specific question, i think it is important to ensure the integrity of the terni site in the current divestment action by outokumpu, starting with the pipeline. as regards fiscal policies, there is an urgent need to implement the recommendation in the june growth pact to favour growth-friendly fiscal consolidation policies and thus to safeguard more the role of public investment in european fiscal policies. finally, the question of the state aid rules must be reconsidered, including the promotion of bridging measures to ensure the production safety of large sites considered to be strategic.
mr president, i have two questions for commissioner tajani. i do not want to repeat what my colleagues have said - with many of whom i agree, with others i absolutely disagree - about the key strategic importance of steelworks in europe. but we often complain to ourselves: we never see, commissioner tajani, that the world has changed. when we talk, as many of our colleagues do, about dominant positions - dominant position means antitrust - we forget that we still have laws that correspond to 1957, when the world was divided into two: europe on the one hand and the united states of america on the other. the world has changed completely today: there are different situations, new markets, india, china, brazil, and therefore competition is real, even unfair. i wonder, commissioner, do we want to change the old, outdated, obsolete laws? and the second question: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the merger.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs sartori because this initiative allows us finally to discuss a problem which affects hundreds of thousands of workers who, because of the rash decisions which have led the european union to fight climate change unilaterally and excessively, are at risk of unemployment. steelworks, being large energy consumers, are even more affected by the european commission's decision to withdraw some of the free ets allowances already distributed and by the desire to set a minimum price for future auctions. this choice by the european commission, which i have already denounced in the debate in the envi committee, will mainly affect steelworks, which have already lost 10% of the market in 2011 and are forecast to lose a further 12% in 2012. the only solution to avoid unfair competition from third countries is to impose duties on incoming products in proportion to the difference in the cost of producing steel in europe compared to a third country.
commissioner tajani, yesterday afternoon an entire town in my region, tuscany, stopped for a few hours. in piombino, 10,000 people took to the streets: the european parliament has been a great help to the workers, pensioners, traders, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, the unemployed and ordinary citizens in the european community. the city is in danger of dying because the steel industry, on which piombino has lived for decades, is in crisis. lucchini is the worst affected company and this could lead to the loss of thousands of jobs, with repercussions on the entire economy and city life. we therefore want the union to send a strong signal to save the european steel industry, which is currently in enormous difficulties and is being penalized by massive competition, especially from asia. it was from steel that the construction of the europe we live in today began in 1951: it is therefore right and proper that the community institutions should take action to defend and protect this sector, which must still be considered as a strategic and priority area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we have mentioned in this house, the united nations agency for communication and information technologies will be meeting in dubai next december for the world conference on international communications. the subject is the renegotiation of international telecommunications regulations. we cannot forget - i am pleased to hear commissioner tajani say this - the work that has been done so far, which cannot be called into question, nor can we allow the authority of the european union to be bypassed by a supranational structure such as the international telecommunications union (itu), of which we know that hundreds of states around the world are members, many of which are known for problems related to democracy, transparency and freedom of expression. so it's not wrong to think that the pillars of the internet, which are freedom, participation, openness, innovation, are in danger. so i think that we need to protect the role of the internet and, above all, the role that the internet can play in boosting economic growth, but not only that, but also in providing opportunities for everyone. i hope therefore that the commission will work towards the objective of europe being united and speaking with one voice in dubai. many controversial proposals have been put to the negotiating table at the world conference on international telecommunications. in particular, those that envision changes to internet governance that challenge net neutrality, with negative repercussions on consumers. the freedom of the internet, or more precisely the freedom of expression and data protection, is therefore at risk. what some states have proposed would allow a government to look not only at the communications of its citizens but even at the data that travels on its networks. the step from this to restricting freedom of expression and censorship is extremely short and therefore i believe it is contrary to the fundamental principles of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to go into the details of the issues raised and the criticisms raised, since they have been thoroughly analysed, first by the rapporteur, mr chichester, whom i thank for the work he has done, and then by the other speakers. i think that the budget can be a positive sign if we take the sum of a year's work. the slight fluctuations in the number of petitions submitted, the ratio of admissible to inadmissible petitions and the total number of petitions successfully closed certainly demonstrate a progressive improvement in the organisation of the work of the committee and a greater efficiency of the instruments at its disposal. the data in the report indicate that the initiatives taken to improve information for citizens, and above all to make it easier for them to access it, are important initiatives and should be supported as a priority by the european parliament. the majority of own-initiative reports, opinions to other committees and reports in this house indicate a positive appreciation of the value of complaints from citizens and also of their usefulness in monitoring the state of implementation of european legislation and its effectiveness. what i consider to be particularly important, however, is the recognition of the role of the committee on petitions as an associated committee in the procedure for grassroots initiatives, as defined by regulation 211/2011, as commissioner šefčovič has pointed out, and i thank him for his attention. this recognition makes the bureaucratic process of drawing up laws on popular initiative more democratic and more participatory. in conclusion, i would say that 2011 marks the year in which the committee on petitions is an important instrument in support of the construction of a people's europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there is no doubt that the initiative 'better regulation' which we discussed some time ago in september was a prelude to this further report which the rapporteur has so well described. the treaty of lisbon has certainly given parliament additional powers at an important stage of european integration. however, the actual implementation of legislation does not always meet the expectations of citizens. this clearly requires close monitoring and increased trust-based cooperation between the european institutions and the individual member states to ensure the uniform and homogeneous application of union law in all 27 member states. the legislative process must be characterized by clarity, transparency and consistency, with due regard for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, but at the same time it must be made clear through clear objections that some member states are not particularly willing to support this process of integration, which has a particularly important element in the legislative aspect. we therefore need easy instruments to facilitate the transposition procedures and even greater judicial cooperation, since an infringement procedure is also a symptom of a pathology that must be treated with force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rosy picture painted by president barroso contrasts with the reality that we all see: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain to us why he has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the negotiations. it should be a metaphor for a europe which is seeing its industrial, productive and, above all, manufacturing capacities die. and also, a striking case: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. you gave european funds to the brother of toto riina, the brother of the head of the italian mafia bosses, and you even gave them to another boss while he was in prison. well, that's a shame! it is a shame because it means that this european superbureaucracy was not even able to notice that it was financing a man with the surname "riina".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like many of my colleagues, i ask the council today, which has made this proposal: but what do you want to do, gentlemen of europe? you want to minimize it, freeze its future? but it is the same europe that is being revived by the van rompuy document on integration. but how consistent is the approach taken by mr van rompuy in his handling of these two dossiers? and what consistency can citizens find between the decisions taken in july on employment and growth and the council's loud calls for hope and the future of the european union? and this violence fell, then, in the name of realism in a perspective of minimal survival? how can these figures and cuts translate the much-vaunted major reforms of cohesion and the cap into concrete action and active policies? these are sincere questions, and we would like a clear, honest answer, because there are signs of institutional schizophrenia which parliament no longer accepts, which the citizens no longer accept. parliament wants consistency, it wants credibility. the first criticism is that we are not at all on the budgetary level! more than growth and investment! we are at the 2008 budget! it must be admitted, of course, that as regards heading 1a, van rompuy's proposal overturns the scandalous cypriot hypothesis. it 's true . the role of the budget as an irreplaceable driver of growth in certain sectors, in addition to national budgets, is recognised. but growth and innovation - let us be clear - must not be at the expense of other sectors which are also part of 'growth' and 'employment', such as cohesion policy and also - ladies and gentlemen - agricultural policy, which has increased employment and is increasingly geared to innovation and the protection of the environment. 'growth' and 'employment' are culture, education, transnational networks, the connecting europe facility and also international solidarity and development, human rights in the world and our contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. but unfortunately we are faced with the usual spectacle of the council: no vision, no guidance, a bubble of competing and conflicting national interests, an inextricable knot of vetoes, of expectations, of general discontent. and europe, unfortunately, is the big absentee!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like us to recover our awareness of what the budget of the european union is. the budget of the european union is not an additional budget to the budgets of the member states, because otherwise we would continue to conduct this debate with a fundamental misunderstanding, which risks disintegrating our efforts. the budget of the european union is a synthetic budget, which aims to multiply the effects of the investments made by the member states through the european budget. in this sense, it is to create more efficiency and more effectiveness. so every dollar taken from the budget of the european union increases the public expenditure of the member states, and this is the principle on which we are building the european union. if the european union is an entity which is added to the member states, as today the european union embassy in the various non-european countries is added to those of the member states, we are perpetuating the misunderstanding. so to think that by cutting back on the european union budget we are contributing to savings and to a general austerity is an unforgivable mistake. we, on the other hand, through the budget of the european union, allow the member states to save money, and thus reduce expenditure and encourage austerity. if we do not have this perception, because in relation to national public opinion each state has to justify its soft nationalism, the result is that we will always have the problem of reducing the budget of the european union and we will always have as the final outcome the problem of increasing the budget of the individual national states. in the end, these 140 billion will be spent by the national states anyway: but they will spend it by reducing efficiency, because the commission's studies already tell us that one euro makes 95 cents in the budget of the european union, but 50 cents when it is spent by the national states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have expressed my support for the text of the honourable member. i particularly agree with the rapporteur in stressing the fundamental role played by national courts in the application of the law within the union. i therefore believe that it is necessary to fully support the european union's efforts to improve and coordinate training in jurisdiction for legal, judicial and administrative authorities and legal practitioners. all initiatives in this area should also be stepped up in order to fully realise the concept of the union based on the rule of law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the extraction of hydrocarbons, the so-called unconventional ones, including gas and shale oil, has brought about an unprecedented transformation in the global energy markets. europe will therefore have to rely on its own shale gas reserves if it is to cope with this situation and be less dependent on hydrocarbon imports. in this respect, some member states have already authorized the exploration for shale gas and are preparing for the extraction phase, should the discovery allow it. in such a context, it is necessary to monitor the rules on the extraction of shale gas within the union's borders so that the undoubtedly economically viable effects of its extraction do not create environmental problems due to the possible release of harmful substances into the groundwater and the atmosphere.
mr president, mr sonik's work has certainly been long and complex and i cannot but commend the overall result of the report. however, as we can see, the doubts about shale gas and oil extraction are still many; the commission's proposals are not only a means of improving the quality of life of the citizens of europe, but also a means of ensuring that the quality of life of the citizens of europe is not compromised. i therefore welcome the decision of the european commission to carry out a number of studies on the potential risks of this extraction. only then, i believe, will we be able to give a clear answer and be able to adopt a new european union framework directive on the regulation of mining activities.
mr president, the measure we have adopted has two aspects: one is geopolitical, the other is environmental. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. this gas, which seemed harmless, now appears to have pernicious effects on the environment, on nature and on future generations. the resolution we have adopted therefore introduces a precautionary and a moratorium and should therefore be viewed positively. but we will still have to go back to the merits to see the effects on the environment.
in writing. - mr president, i would first like to express my positive opinion of the technical capacity of mr borg to be commissioner for health. i believe that in his letter of two days ago mr borg was able to clarify and reassure us about certain positions which had raised some criticisms of his election. through the public hearing last week, you confirmed your commitment to issues that are very close to my heart, such as agriculture, the environment and the internal market. i think it is essential to emphasize the professional qualities, since he has dealt extensively with health and consumer protection issues. i think that what is most important when electing a commissioner is the most concrete aspect, namely the protection of citizens. for example, in this case i very much welcome the commissioner's position on gmos, labelling, indications of origin and food safety, and his commitment to an ambitious project on tobacco products.
in writing. - mr president, i find it scandalous that certain member states, led by great britain, have tried to obstruct the budget, particularly the funds for solidarity and cohesion, including the possibility of blocking funds for the earthquake in emilia romagna. it is worth remembering that italy is a net contributor to the eu budget, i.e. it pays more than it receives. if we are to cut the community budget, we must start with the so-called 'english cheque', a discount which england got more than 20 years ago and which represents an unjustified and anachronistic privilege. in times of economic crisis, europe must prove itself a useful tool to help citizens, businesses and territories in difficulty.
in writing. - i support the balzani report which presents draft amending budget no 5/2012. this project concerns the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of € 670,192,359, allocated to respond to the earthquakes that struck northern italy on 20 and 29 may 2012, causing 27 deaths, more than 350 injuries and direct damage estimated at eur 13,273,736,063.
in writing. - finally, today we have a solution to the dispute between the commission and parliament on the one hand and the council on the other; the commission has also decided to grant eur 670 million to the victims of the earthquake in emilia romagna. after the committee on budgets approved the allocation of funds on 15 november, thanks to the vote, the requests made by italy were finally accepted.
in writing. − uncertainties about the financing of these aids were creating confusion and discomfort among citizens. it is now urgent that parliament should give final approval to these funds, which are essential for the economic and productive recovery of an entire region of italy. my vote is in favour.
in writing. the european parliament has finally given its approval to the amending budget, which will provide eur 670 million in support of the areas affected by the earthquake in emilia last may. the european union solidarity fund was mobilised more quickly than in the past, although the timing should be revised and improved. the whole european budget agreement on this amending budget was in danger of being blown up because of the foolish opposition of some member states: the european union is often filled with the word 'solidarity', but in reality everyone goes his own way and thinks only of his own interests. this aid from brussels can be an incentive to restart the economy and the life of these hard-hit areas. i hope that concrete support will soon come from europe for my tuscany, too, whose wounds from the recent floods are unfortunately still open and visible.
in writing. - mr president, as an italian and an emilian mep, i have been living with particular apprehension these days, when our commitment to the earthquakes in my country seemed to derail in the process of approval by the council. the slogan of this european union, 'united in diversity', is too often forgotten by states which refuse to take on the burden of the difficult times when others are having a hard time. the european parliament has finally ratified by an overwhelming majority the allocation of €670 million for the reconstruction of the towns of emilia romagna, which were destroyed by the earthquake swarms that began on 20 may 2012, resulting in 27 deaths, some 350 injuries and over 45,000 displaced people. he did so on november 21, the day that nearby venice celebrates the madonna della salute, believed to have saved the city from a devastating plague in 1630. the italian and european citizens who come to visit parliament have reason to have strong faith in this institution which has once again been able to fight to guarantee its sincere closeness to the citizens it represents, crushing the selfishness and indifference of some countries.
in writing. the council's hesitation in respect of the commitment and payment appropriations for the solidarity fund for the earthquake victims of emilia-romagna has provoked a wave of condemnation and indignation in the press of my country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council's attitude is pretentious and i share the complaint in the resolution about its delays and unfounded uncertainties. winter, with its rigors and environmental difficulties, is now upon us, and the population fears it as if it were another calamity. the children in the tents that have been converted into schools, the elderly, the sick and the workers in the broken-down factories cannot understand the council's bureaucratic and formal reasons, but they fear that the delays will be passed on to them. and that is unfair and incomprehensible. unless - and i would like to put this ill-fated idea to rest - this regrettable incident is also one of the many points of disagreement which have marked the life of our union in recent times.
in writing. − italy has submitted an application for assistance from the solidarity fund following a series of earthquakes on 20 may 2012. a violent earthquake measuring 5.9 on the richter scale has struck large areas of northern italy, causing extensive damage in many towns and villages, especially near the epicenter, especially in the provinces of modena and ferrara in emilia-romagna. on may 29, another strong earthquake measuring 5.8 on the richter scale occurred, with an epicenter located slightly further west. both seismic events were followed by several strong aftershocks and resulted in 27 deaths, about 350 injuries and over 45 000 displaced persons. the italian authorities estimated the total direct damage at eur 13 273 736 063. despite the funding difficulties linked to the 2012 budget reconciliation, i believe it is both right and proper that parliament sends a signal to the affected populations to help them in this very difficult time.
in writing. - finally, the victims of the earthquake in emilia-romagna will receive the €670 million in eu aid initially blocked by disputes between the three main european institutions. the absurd decision to block the funds has now been set aside and they can be used quickly.
in writing. - the european commission must decide once and for all whether to have a solidarity fund to respond to major natural disasters and express solidarity with the affected territories in a timely and rapid manner or whether to invent image labels that are actually useless. we are talking about the european civil protection measure, which is just a temporary measure, but it is in difficulty and the european commission is unable to release funds to help the people affected by the earthquake in emilia-romagna. the proposal to draw from the funds a reallocation, which currently amounts to eur 13 million, is ridiculous and should make the commission feel "red" but ashamed. i would also remind my colleagues that the european commission is considering asking back the funds granted to them by the italian government from the companies flooded in 1994, without realising that doing so would force them into bankruptcy. i think the commission should seriously reconsider its position, not least because it seems to have no idea what is at stake in europe today and what it means to be affected by calamitous events.
in writing. - i decided to vote in favour of this report because italy has submitted an application for assistance from the solidarity fund following a series of earthquakes which occurred on 20 may 2012 in the provinces of modena and ferrara in emilia-romagna. draft amending budget no 5/2012 concerns the intervention of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) for an amount of eur 670 192 359 for the earthquake-affected areas.
in writing. - the italian region of emilia romagna has suffered serious damage as a result of a series of earthquakes and, as a result, italy has requested the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund. the fund was set up specifically to help european citizens affected by natural disasters. i therefore supported this report because i believe that this will enable the fund to achieve the purpose for which it was set up. it will allow emilia romagna to start over and to rise again, economically and socially; i am sure that he will make good use of the money available. the 670 million will reach the emilia region in a few weeks and can be used to finance the restructuring of electricity networks and infrastructure. this is certainly an important step in the recovery of the emilia-romagna economy, which has always been one of the main engines of italian industry. i am also glad that the initial complaints of some have been overcome and that a great signal of solidarity between the european states has finally been sent.
in writing. - i am very pleased with today's vote which has 'unblocked' funds for the victims of the earthquake in emilia-romagna. after difficult negotiations in the council, with five countries making a deplorable obstruction, today's vote will finally bring €670 million to the people affected by the earthquake. as an emilian, i would like to thank in particular my colleagues on the committee on budgets, who have worked tirelessly to remove the uncertainties about the allocation of funds and to help the people of my country as quickly as possible. the european union, by voting as a matter of urgency, has shown - despite some selfish reasoning that emerged last week - that it is close to the people affected by the earthquake.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr josé manuel fernandes on the allocation of eur 670.192.359 to italy from the european union solidarity fund to deal with the catastrophe caused by the earthquake which struck northern italy on 20 and 29 may 2012.
in writing. - the emilia-romagna region has been severely damaged by earthquakes since 20 may this year. the total direct damage suffered by the affected cities is equal to 0,86% of the italian gross national income and the amount exceeds by almost four times the threshold applicable to italy in 2012 for the mobilisation of the solidarity fund. i am not saying that the report is problematic, but i am saying that the earthquakes in emilia-romagna are a serious natural disaster.
in writing. the text voted in the house is of the utmost importance for the credibility of the european union. europe is built on solidarity, and not just on words. today parliament and the council have proved this, albeit after difficult negotiations. we have reached this important milestone, namely the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the italian regions affected by the earthquake (emilia romagna, veneto and lombardy) in the amount of eur 670 million, after a hard-fought battle with the council, which risked jeopardising the resources for these regions in the name of budgetary austerity. i firmly believe that certain principles are not negotiable, and that is why we strongly supported, together with our colleagues and the president himself, the mobilisation of the fund, asking the member states to separate these funds from the other amounts in the negotiations on the 2013 budget, precisely so as not to prejudice their immediate financing.
in writing. - after the efforts we have made in the negotiations to approve the amendments to this year's budget, with particular attention to the solidarity fund following the earthquakes in emilia-romagna, i strongly urge that these efforts not be wasted and that disbursement be made as soon as possible without further delay. a series of seismic events have hit my country: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. under the policy in force under the solidarity fund, earthquakes are of natural origin and therefore fall within the scope of the solidarity fund. after a fairly detailed analysis of the impact of seismic events and a breakdown by sector and region of the estimated damage, the disbursement of financial assistance from the eusf to the victims of natural disasters cannot but be considered as extremely urgent. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − italy has submitted an application for assistance from the solidarity fund following a series of strong earthquakes in may 2012 that affected large areas of northern italy, causing extensive damage in many towns and villages, particularly near the epicentre, especially in the provinces of modena and ferrara in emilia-romagna. on may 29, another strong earthquake measuring 5.8 on the richter scale occurred, with an epicenter located slightly further west. both seismic events were followed by several strong aftershocks and resulted in 27 deaths, about 350 injuries and over 45 000 displaced persons. several buildings, infrastructure, businesses, industrial warehouses, as well as the agricultural sector and important cultural heritage have suffered severe and widespread damage. the commission, having considered the earthquake in northern italy as a 'serious natural disaster', after negotiations with the council, proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations. i therefore thank the members who voted in favour of the resolution today, on behalf of the italian citizens affected by the earthquake.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the balzani and fernandes reports because the reconstruction of emilia romagna, lombardy and veneto, which were severely affected by the earthquakes of last may, also involves the european union. we have voted in this house today on a text which i consider to be fundamental: we have confirmed the agreement already reached at council level on the commission's proposal to provide eur 670.192.359 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to the series of earthquakes that struck northern italy in may 2012. the eusf will contribute to co-financing the reconstruction of the affected areas and the economic recovery of one of the most important, representative and productive agri-food and industrial districts in italy. this is the largest mobilisation of the eusf since its establishment and, also in the light of the initial impasse at last week's competitiveness council, it is a positive sign of the commitment the union has made. the earthquakes which have been shaking the provinces between emilia-romagna and lombardy for weeks and which have caused damage to all the productive sectors are a natural catastrophe which europe has not been able to ignore.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by mr moreira on the implementation of the agreements concluded as a result of the gatt 1994 article xxviii negotiations, which is necessary to adapt the legislation to the changes in the customs duties and tariff quotas on processed chicken between the eu, thailand and brazil. the european commission found a regulatory loophole in the rules governing the export of poultry from the above countries to europe, which favoured foreign producers and seriously damaged the european market. the text voted on made it possible to amend the legislation to eliminate this situation.
in writing. − due to a gap in eu legislation, imports of processed poultrymeat have increased indiscriminately, causing negative effects on the european industry. to prevent this gap from continuing to create such disadvantages, we are called upon today to allow the implementation of the agreements, in accordance with the rules laid down by the wto, reached with brazil and thailand, the countries most affected by the modification of the tariffs for the products in question: that's why i'm voting for it.
in writing. − following the negotiations under article xxviii of gatt 1994, which were launched in mid-2009 with brazil and thailand and concluded in 2012, it is now necessary to adopt a regulation implementing the provisions of the recent agreements. these are extremely important measures relating to the import agreements between the european union and brazil and between the european union and thailand, which are designed to address the effects of import substitution to the detriment of the union poultry industry. i am particularly concerned about the implementation of these agreements, which i consider necessary to raise the level of protection, to avoid the substitution effects affecting the poultry industry. the implementation of the agreement concerns an increase in the out-of-quota rate for seven tariff lines for processed poultrymeat products and the opening of tariff quotas for these seven tariff lines for processed poultrymeat products for brazil, thailand and other countries. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce the new standards and to remove any shortcomings in the legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr moreira on the allocation of tariff quotas for exports of wood from russia to the european union. the purpose of the text is to give the european commission the necessary powers to adopt, by means of implementing acts, the provisions for the management of the tariff quotas granted by russia to the european union, as set out in the report by mr vaidere, which was voted on at this same plenary session.
in writing. − following russia's accession to the world trade organisation, legislative adjustments and new trade agreements between the european union and moscow, in this case on timber exports, have become necessary. as this is a measure which should benefit european companies which use wood, such as the paper, furniture and building industries, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i support the report by mr moreira on the 'agreement on the modification of concessions for processed poultrymeat between the eu, brazil and thailand'. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu in order to amend the rules on the protection of the environment. to remedy this, the commission has adjusted the legislation by tightening the duties on poultry exports to the european community. at the same time, in compliance with wto rules, it became necessary to renegotiate the previously existing agreements between the eu and the third countries involved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr moreira's text on the agreement with brazil and thailand to amend certain tariff concessions granted by the eu to these two countries in the processed poultrymeat sector. the aim of the agreement is to raise the level of protection to fill the gaps: the increased level of protection will be compensated within the wto's regulatory framework, while maintaining a general level of mutually beneficial concessions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr moreira on the amendment of the annexes to protocols 1 and 2 to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and israel. these changes will lead to greater liberalisation of reciprocal trade in agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products between the eu and israel. this is an agreement which has undoubtedly positive implications, on the one hand israel represents an interesting development opportunity for our companies; it also provides strong assurances that our rules and standards for production, the environment and society are being met.
in writing. the amendments to the ec-israel protocol are aimed at achieving greater liberalisation of reciprocal trade in agricultural and processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products. i am therefore voting in favour of the agreement, since israel is not a threat as regards plant health checks on products and provides many guarantees as regards compliance with environmental, production and social standards, and since this agreement also represents an interesting development opportunity for our companies.
in writing. - i am in favour of the adoption of this trade protocol between the eu and israel, not only because israel represents an interesting development opportunity for our agricultural and fisheries businesses, but above all because i am against the continuing political exploitation of trade relations with israel. continuing to use political pressure on trade does not help our businesses and contributes to making the eu's position on the middle east conflict increasingly unbalanced and therefore less credible. i therefore hope that this protocol, like the acaa protocol, will be approved as soon as possible.
in writing. - the draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the state of israel amending the annexes to protocols 1 and 2 to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, relates to a series of agreements between the various international actors on reciprocal liberalisation measures. these measures have enabled trade in agricultural products, processed agricultural products and fish and fishery products with certain mediterranean countries to be further liberalized. i believe that the amendment of the protocols under discussion can give greater weight to the areas under negotiation, giving greater weight to both traditional sectors and new commodity sectors. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i supported the report by mrs vaidere on the eu-russia agreement on the administration of tariff quotas for timber exports. following russia's accession to the world trade federation, a number of agreements and legislative adjustments between the eu and russia have become necessary, such as the reduction of export duties on raw timber, and the management by the eu of its share of the tariff quotas allocated to it. european companies, particularly those in the building and paper furniture sectors, will greatly benefit from this measure.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. it is important to avoid a repeat of the successive increases in timber export duties applied by russia since 2007 that affected many european producers. i hope that the agreement will be approved, because it will bring more predictability and better trading conditions.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs vaidere on her work. with the approval of this text by parliament, in view of the proposal for a council decision (16775/2011), european timber industries, including those supplying raw material to construction and paper mills, will import fir and pine from russia at reduced prices. in fact, given the reduction in customs duties for these types of wood by russia, the eu took the opportunity to conclude a trade agreement with that country, which will save member states' industries almost 70% compared to the past. the conclusion of this agreement will greatly benefit the industry in finland, latvia, lithuania, estonia, sweden, germany and poland, which had seen their imports blocked following the 80% increase in customs tariffs by russia in 2007. in italy, however, the furniture and furnishing industries will benefit the most from the reduction in the cost of raw materials.
in writing. - mr president, the russian federation has agreed to reduce its current export duties on raw materials, including wood products. for certain types of wood, in particular certain species of conifers, russia has introduced tariff quotas. for the quantities exported from russia that are within the quotas, the export duties are lower, for the products that are not within the quotas, the rates are higher, if not prohibitive. the european union aims to significantly improve the supply of timber from russia. the european union will thus undertake to administer quota authorisations, while the russian federation will retain the right to issue export licences on the basis of the relevant import documents issued by the european union.
in writing. − in the context of its wto accession process, the russian federation has agreed to reduce its current export duties on raw materials, including wood products. for certain types of wood, in particular certain species of conifers, russia has introduced tariff quotas. the quantities exported by russia under the quotas are subject to the lowest export duties; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota system is maintained. a specific part of the quotas has been allocated to exports to the eu: the quotas were set at a relatively high level for the eu, at least in relation to the demand expected in the short term. the bilateral agreement lays down the general provisions for the application of the tariff quota part. while the eu will manage the quota authorisations, the russian federation will retain the right to issue export licences on the basis of the relevant import documents issued by the eu.
in writing. − the schengen information system is the largest integrated database, designed to improve police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and policy on visas, immigration and the free movement of persons. sis ii represents a significant advance in the system, allowing the introduction of new data, indications and functionalities which must, however, be protected and controlled. it is important that the timetable is respected, that no further delays are avoided, and that the second generation system is finally operational. i share mr coelho's disappointment that, although the sis is a very important issue for the citizens of the european union, the european parliament has been given a purely advisory role.
in writing. − sis ii, unlike sis 1+, is not a simple information system, but will be used as a means of police investigation, counter-terrorism and immigration control. in view of the importance of the role played by this system, i therefore consider it appropriate that the united kingdom and ireland also participate in it: my vote will therefore be in favour.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. the sis ii is an essential tool for strengthening the security of the schengen area. we must all work together to end the intergovernmental management of the system and to significantly improve data protection and the fundamental rights of individuals. the sis ii should therefore enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. - we all know that the schengen information system (sis) is the main instrument for the security of the schengen area and is considered the backbone of a europe without borders and of an area of freedom, security and justice. we are now on the eve of the entry into force of a second generation sis, which will allow for the introduction of new data, new types of alerts and new functions, allowing for increased security and more efficient use of information through the interconnection of alerts. before the new system can be operational, a test is necessary to assess whether sis ii meets all the required technical and functional requirements, as well as the other necessary requirements in terms of stability, responsiveness and performance. i voted in favour because i believe that sis ii can be an essential tool for strengthening the security of the schengen area, putting an end to the intergovernmental management of the system and considerably improving data protection and the fundamental rights of individuals. i hope that sis ii will therefore be able to come into force as soon as possible.
in writing. the objective pursued by the schengen agreements of creating a common european area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital is ensured has necessitated the introduction of different and stricter rules on judicial and police cooperation. the architecture of the new system will allow for increased security and, through the introduction of new data, will make the collection of information more effective. i believe that the transition from one system to another will make it possible to implement cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the member states more effectively. i believe that this will make it possible to move away from an intergovernmental approach, through the joint management of border controls. i hope that, in view of the need to ensure the protection of data and the fundamental rights of individuals, sis ii will be implemented as soon as possible, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - i shall abstain from voting on the lichtenberger report. although there are many points in common with the rapporteur, i think that her views are too critical of the states and that the solution is not to be found in strengthening control by the eu for its own sake, but in greater cooperation and coordination between the european institutions, the member states and in particular the national courts, which play an essential role in the application of community law.
in writing. - i agree with this report, particularly with regard to the need for parliament to stress the importance of the principles of transparency, legal clarity and proportionality in order to ensure the timely and correct application of union law. however, the approach towards member states is particularly rigid and critical and the report as a whole advocates increased scrutiny by the union. for these reasons, i thought it appropriate to abstain.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report. i agree with the positive assessment of the instruments used to facilitate the transposition process (transposition checklists, manuals or interpretative notes) and the call on the commission to monitor even more closely the transposition of directives before the deadline, particularly with regard to member states which have already had negative experiences.
in writing. − the annual report on monitoring the application of eu law is intended to underline the importance of the correct application of eu law for the respect of the rights and obligations created by it. i think it is necessary to emphasize the main obstacle to be overcome, which is the delay in transposing directives by the member states. i believe that efforts can be stepped up further to ensure that eu law is effectively applied. to this end, i believe that greater cooperation with the member states through preventive measures can help to ensure that european legislation is applied more effectively. in response to the guarantee of the rights of complainants, i believe that a detailed framework for the eu pilot project should be drawn up to make it more understandable to citizens, as it is a tool for solving transposition and implementation problems in a timely manner. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in its communication entitled 'energy roadmap 2050', the commission underlines that, in the face of declining conventional gas production, europe will have to rely on substantial gas imports, as well as on its own natural gas and shale gas reserves, if any. in recent years, the extraction of so-called 'unconventional' hydrocarbons, including shale gas and oil, has led to an unprecedented transformation of global energy markets: in particular, shale gas increased from 1,4% of the us gas market in 2000 to around 17% in 2011. global gas prices and trade patterns are changing, with clear consequences for the eu. several member states have already authorised exploration for shale gas and are preparing for the extraction phase. i believe that within the energy system shale gas and other sources of unconventional gas can open up new sources of supply for europe. at the same time, there is a need to monitor the practices and regulatory regimes of shale gas extraction in order to make this operation economically viable, and to identify and address concerns about the effects of shale gas extraction on the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr sonik's report on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil extraction. estimates of shale gas and oil reserves in the eu identify about 14000 billion mmc recoverable. the fears surrounding the possible environmental impact and repercussions in extraction procedures are well known and have been raised in this report which calls on the commission and the national authorities to pursue specific scientific studies addressing these fears and demonstrating on a scientific, non-biased basis the reality of the facts and the real environmental problems that could result from the application of this type of extraction. the report calls for monitoring of technological developments worldwide with a view to continuously assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of existing legislation. in this respect, due attention should be paid to the experience of north american bodies and regulations where these extractive practices have been tried and tested for over half a century.
in writing. - the vote today will certainly not put an end to the accession debate, because this is a subject which, on the one hand, divides public opinion and, on the other, it is useless to deny that it conceals great interests. while this is a resource that could help ensure energy security and diversification in the medium and long term, making the european union less dependent and at the same time helping to reduce co2 emissions, there are also continuing concerns about the effects of extraction techniques on the environment. the aim is to allow member states to extract shale gas and oil on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and in compliance with existing environmental legislation.
in writing. − i agree with the request to the commission to present, by the end of 2012, an analysis of the future of the global and european gas market, including the impact of planned gas infrastructure projects, new lng terminals, the impact of shale gas on the us gas market and the impact of any developments in the european union in the shale gas sector on future security of supply and future gas prices.
in writing. − recent technological advances have already given impetus to rapid extraction of unconventional fossil fuels on a commercial scale in many parts of the world. there is still no commercial exploitation in the european union and the potential for reserves and possible impacts on the environment and public health need to be further examined. the exploitation of shale gas is not free from controversy in the european union and worldwide and therefore requires a full analysis of all effects. however, the development and production of shale gas could lower prices by increasing competitiveness, creating jobs, reducing energy imports and improving the union's energy independence. this favourable vote will encourage research into shale gas extraction.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs tzavela, which analyses the industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil. the presence of shale in our territories is not economically advantageous, whereas in other member states the situation is quite different. the fact that the european parliament is opposed to this, regardless of the will to deepen studies and research in this field, is in favour of dependence on foreign fossil energy sources. the text emphasises that the investments for this sector should be fully covered by the industry which would also bear the costs of any direct or indirect damage by applying the polluter pays principle.
in writing. - i congratulate mrs tzavela on her work. in adopting this document, parliament, in the light of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), in particular article 194, wanted to underline the need for regulation at european level as regards the exploration and exploitation of shale gas and oil. the adoption of a european regulation on the subject, while not affecting the autonomy of the state in the management of these resources, is considered by parliament as a necessary step for the management of all activities related to shale gas. the importance of using environmentally sustainable processes and techniques and the fact that the financing for the construction of the necessary infrastructure must be borne by the sector were also stressed. finally, although even the european commission has concluded that community rules adequately cover the exploration and production of shale gas, the prospect of extending the exploitation of unconventional fossil fuels requires a 'thorough analysis' of community legislation on the issue of fuels.
in writing. - i welcomed the report by mrs tzavela and appreciated the fact that the proposal for a moratorium was rejected. i agree with the recognition of the potential for the development of shale gas and oil in the european union. the wealth of energy resources is an opportunity to be seized, which is essential to transform europe into a major energy power and to strengthen its independence. european countries need more energy sources to break free from dependence on foreign energy supplies. it is therefore essential to look at different sources of energy, including shale gas. the use of this, although not the only solution to our energy needs, would be a huge advantage. we can take the united states experience as a model: in the united states, the use of shale gas has had a significant impact, causing its price to fall to three quarters of a dollar, much less than the price in europe, which is 13/14 dollars. i think, however, that a cautious approach is necessary, as shale gas extraction involves possible environmental risks. we must have a clear view of the situation, weighing the pros and cons, and above all, we must ensure that appropriate controls are in place.
in writing. - according to estimates of shale gas resources in europe, several member states have shale gas and oil reserves, i.e. potentially large local energy resources. to remain competitive and to meet its high need for gas imports, europe must therefore exploit its own shale gas and oil resources. to this end, a stable regulatory framework is essential, both to create an appropriate environment for the gas industries to invest in the necessary infrastructure as well as in research and development, and to prevent any market distortions. as regards environmental and societal impacts, the best way to ensure meaningful and timely participation of local communities is through a mandatory environmental impact assessment, coupled with a high level of transparency and public consultation on proposed shale gas projects, irrespective of their duration and scope.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the specific application of regulation (eu) no 211/2011 of the european parliament and of the council have strengthened the right of every european citizen to participate in the democratic life of the european union through the european citizens' initiative. in addition, citizens also have the possibility of petitioning for matters relating to infringement of community law. i have had the opportunity to follow the committee on petitions, including on matters concerning italy, and i can only congratulate its members and president mazzoni on the work they have done so far, work which ensures contact and dialogue with the citizens and the dissemination of the importance of community law. i think that, given the number of petitions that are inadmissible, because they are outside the remit of the committee on petitions, perhaps it would be appropriate to launch an awareness campaign to inform citizens about the powers and the functioning of the european institutions.
in writing. - i vote against the report by mr chichester on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2011. while the text gives a true assessment of the importance of the work of this commission, stressing that the increase in the number of petitions submitted demonstrates the importance and usefulness of this instrument for protecting citizens' rights, when it comes to the analysis of the defence of fundamental rights, the rapporteur argues that the petition should be used as a tool to defend mainly minorities such as the roma, or to protect the right to family reunification in the case of third-country nationals. finally, he expresses criticisms that i do not share with regard to the work carried out by frontex/the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders.
in writing. - i join the rapporteur in deploring the exploitation of the petitions procedure by the member states. it is important to strengthen cooperation with member states' parliaments and governments on the basis of reciprocity and, if necessary, to encourage national authorities to transpose and apply eu legislation in full transparency.
in writing. − the protection of the environment and the defence of citizens' rights and justice are the main concerns of the committee on petitions. the large number of petitions, particularly those on the 'economy and finance' themes, appear to be closely linked to the debt crisis. i believe that despite the large number of petitions submitted in relation to the rights under the charter of fundamental rights, it is necessary to continue to take concrete initiatives to promote citizen participation and access to information. for these reasons i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the committee on petitions plays a key role, as it is perceived as the point of contact for every european citizen. in 2011, the petitions received again mainly concerned alleged breaches of eu law on the environment, justice and the internal market. it is clear that the role and responsibilities of the committee on petitions would be better fulfilled and that its visibility, efficiency, reliability and transparency would be enhanced, improving its ability to present matters of importance to european citizens in the house. i therefore expressed my support for mr chichester's text and my hope that the petitions procedure could be even more efficient, more impartial and more responsive to the demands of european citizens in the near future.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as president schulz reminded us, on tuesday 13th the 21 days of the conciliation period expired, by which time parliament and the council had failed to agree on a common position on the 2013 budget. from the parliament's point of view, it was clear from the beginning - we have always stressed this in our informal and formal talks - that it was not possible to deal with the 2013 budget without first closing the accounts for 2012. it was therefore right that the problems of amending budget no 5, which we voted on this morning in the chamber, should be examined carefully. as the president said, there were some hesitations, but especially those concerning amending budget no 6 and 2013. it is not possible to think of appropriations for 2013 when the budget proposed to the commission was also proposed without taking into account any roll-over of payments from the previous year. the risks of not having a budget and of the application of the twelfths system are well known and parliament will endeavour to ensure that this does not happen: but clearly we have our priorities to defend. we are asking for an agreement on payments at an appropriate level, which will allow all community policies to continue to be carried out properly. in relation to commitments, we strongly believe in the need to invest in growth, development and employment. these are the priorities of the council and have also been selected by parliament as priorities in its reading of the 2013 budget. we are certainly aware of the difficulties of the member states and will take this into account in the negotiations: but that does not mean that the european parliament is prepared to sacrifice the growth of the european union on the altar of austerity without exception, as is demanded by some national governments. i am, however, confident that, given the excellent climate of cooperation between the institutions, there is a chance of reaching an agreement on the budget. but i would remind you that in this procedure the european parliament is involved in the co-decision procedure with the council and intends to exercise this power, which is recognised by the treaty, to safeguard the proper implementation of community policies and thus, ultimately, to the benefit of the european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the conciliation has brought to light all the problems of this europe which is no longer standing. the hesitation over the funds to be allocated to earthquake-stricken emilia was one of the most shameful pages in the history of the european union, a union which is, however, in danger of disappearing and there are many signs that are pointing in that direction. several member states are no longer willing to listen to the commission's requests, which shows the lack of interest and usefulness that this europe can generate. but one thing must be clear: the commitments made must be respected and therefore the programmes already defined and planned, such as erasmus, must have the necessary resources to go ahead. in future, we must act in a more pragmatic and less ideological way, that is, by focusing only on the really priority objectives. i believe, however, that the first thing to change is this european union as it is understood today, in which no one believes any more, starting with the member states which wanted it but which now no longer want to take it on.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution, starting from a shared principle, repeatedly invoked by myself, that recognizes the threat of climate change and the fact that it is a problem that must be addressed at international level, but by all parties, slips into error when it calls for the european union to act unilaterally with concrete initiatives to reduce emissions by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. it is not realised that continuing to depress european industry will encourage the relocation of major firms to third countries. unlike my colleagues in the committee, i consider the outcome of durban inadequate, as it did not lead to any comprehensive and binding agreement on emission reductions. the idea of starting the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol unilaterally, knowing that the united states, russia, japan and canada have not joined, that australia and new zealand are in the process of joining and that the major polluting countries such as china, india, brazil and indonesia have no intention of meeting their emission reduction targets, is sheer folly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i very much appreciated the text of mr groote's report and i think you will live up to the commitment you have made here: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe, however, that in the face of the objective data which are ruthlessly invoked in the text of the world bank, it is necessary to put forward an idea which goes beyond the broadly acceptable one which forms the basis of the discussion we wish to have: we are facing a real environmental emergency, because the rise in the earth's temperature is not linear, and beyond a certain threshold, even one degree of temperature increase can lead to devastating conditions. the objectives and timetables set out in the european union's position are very good, but we must also think about a process of intervention that is more rapid and has the character of an emergency.
in writing. the conflict between israel and hamas and other terrorist factions operating in the gaza strip is not a symmetrical one. on the one hand, we have a state which has the right and the duty, like any other state, to protect its citizens from a rain of over 5000 missiles and rockets launched since 2005 and, on the other, a terrorist organisation which aims to destroy the state of israel and deliberately strikes civilian targets in order to terrorize the population. the situation is made all the more worrying by the military and financial support given to hamas by iran and the ambiguous role of the new egypt, where the muslim brotherhood is increasingly influential. forgetting these facts and turning the aggressor into the aggressor is not only encouraging extremism but also and above all handing the demands of the palestinian people into the hands of extremists. who is the indomitable iranian who thinks he can make peace with hamas?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important for europe to establish a partnership and cooperation agreement with kazakhstan, a country which plays a strategic role in the process of modernisation in central asia and a point of contact between the caucasus and russia. we hope that this agreement will speed up the political and economic reforms needed to make kazakhstan a full member of the wto and an important economic partner for the development of the industrial fabric, especially for smes which are currently finding it difficult to enter the asian market. we urge kazakhstan to commit itself to the construction of the great transcaspian corridor, which is essential to strengthening energy security. we are aware of the progress the government has made to improve the current rights situation but we are also aware of how much more needs to be done. we therefore believe that this agreement can help, and that the media and social media can also help effectively, supported by transnational initiatives such as the eurasian media forum.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that today should be an opportunity to speak objectively about kazakhstan and the important agreement that the country is negotiating with the european union. kazakhstan is a crucial country for the stability and strategic future of central asia and is undoubtedly an important economic and trade partner of the european union. this is a country which has already started a process of economic reform and also a democratic process but which still has a lot of work to do to bring these processes to full fruition. but it is a country which, with this aim, is also showing itself to be ready for new and more substantial reforms, and i believe that the european union's task is precisely to accompany it. i am therefore confident that the signing of this enhanced agreement will make progress possible, because its approval will strengthen an already solid and productive relationship and ensure continued assistance from the european union. i also remain convinced - and i think this should have been made even clearer in the report we are voting on tomorrow - that the improvement in progress on the road to democracy and human rights must be accompanied by a renewed and mutually open and constructive commitment. our aim should not be to put ourselves on negative terms with this and other countries in the face of the failure to make immediate changes: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, enough with the finishing touches! it takes indiscriminate shark fishing to strip away the precious and highly sought-after fin and then dump the bulky carcass into the sea. so, no more special permits. that is what the environment committee of the european parliament asked for in the opinion on which i was rapporteur and which, despite some resistance in the committee on fisheries, will, i hope, be confirmed by the whole of this house tomorrow. the european union, in line with recommendations from the international scientific community, already decided in 2003 to ban finning, but the derogations in current legislation do not allow effective action to be taken against this phenomenon, which seriously threatens the survival of sharks, a particularly vulnerable species. there are no other roads: only by stipulating that sharks must be landed with their fins still attached to the body can we ensure a simple and effective control of the prohibition of spinning on board. the conservation of shark stocks is a truly sustainable fishery. parliament must therefore support the european commission's proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as vice-chairman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i have written an opinion on mr ferreira's report on small-scale artisanal fishing. there are too many legal and social barriers today to women's full participation at all levels in this field. women are taken on board fishing vessels; are involved at all levels of the fisheries production chain, from fish catch to sowing, harvesting in aquaculture, processing to marketing; are shipowners; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal. the work of women in the fisheries sector, and particularly in the craft sector, needs to be made more visible, because 85% of women in this sector feel discriminated against. this is an industry that is seen as exclusively a male industry: there are many obstacles to their career advancement and the support structures available to them are inadequate. i am glad that mr ferreira has taken this opinion into account and i am glad that commissioner damanaki has stressed the importance of the cooperation that must exist between the committee on fisheries and the other committees of this parliament: i am therefore here to highlight some of the priority actions to be undertaken - i am speaking of course at the level of the european union and the member states: the most important thing is the legal and social protection of the status of women workers to guarantee their equal pay with men; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a lot has been done, but there is still more to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in thanking the rapporteurs for the reports we are voting on tomorrow, i would just like to say a few words about the thrust and i join in what i heard unanimously from all my colleagues this evening. i would like to focus on small-scale fishing, on the ferreira report, which i welcome and with which i congratulate myself. the past common fisheries policy has only served to increase the distance between the institutions which regulate fisheries and the real actors in fisheries, namely fishermen. unfortunately, until now, the lack of a proper definition of artisanal fishing in europe has been a handicap for those who have always understood fishing as an activity linked to the traditions of their own place, their own seas and their own cuisine. the conviction has thus grown that the european commission's policy was to make all european fishing a single industry, following only the logic of the market and not listening to the arguments of thousands of fishermen who for a couple of decades have been operating under rules relating to the conservation of the ecosystem, with which i can only agree, but who have never preserved the work activities of the micro-economy of small-scale fishing. this own-initiative report is a strong signal to the commission that it can be translated into practical measures to benefit the fisheries micro-economy. the report highlights a number of advantages, such as the allocation of a minimum amount to small-scale fisheries from the european fund. we must encourage projects with integrated solutions which benefit the coastal community as a whole, and we must also encourage young people to take up the sector - we have spoken about this several times in committee - otherwise not only will fisheries die, probably because of the shortage of seas and fish, but also because young people will no longer take up this sector. this report is an opportunity to insert in it moments of training and encouragement for young people who want to get closer to the sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the five rapporteurs who have worked very hard on these subjects, and since i can only deal with one, i shall wear an object on my head for the second one, to demonstrate my conviction that no fish, under european law, can be landed without fins, so i do not understand why sharks have to be landed without fins. so, in honor of the sharks, i will wear a fin to continue my speech. i wanted to support above all the approach of mrs lövin and to challenge in substance the idea that the people's party could have produced an alternative resolution. i believe that this alternative resolution by the people's party, signed by the president, raises a very serious problem, because it deletes a very important part of that report concerning the conclusion of fisheries agreements in the mediterranean. this sea, in our mediterranean, without fishing agreements with other countries, is destined to certain death. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask my colleague, the chairman of our committee, to withdraw that motion before tomorrow, otherwise i invite my mediterranean colleagues to vote against it.
the agenda includes the debate on the commission's statement on the 2014 elections to the european parliament. i would remind members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure for this debate.
member of the commission. − madam president, elections to the european parliament are always a highly significant moment for the union and the 2014 elections come at a particularly critical time. the commission has always supported every effort to reinforce parliament’s legitimacy. this is not only in the interest of all eu institutions, but above all in the interest of eu citizens. the direct representation brings a crucial element of legitimacy for the actions of the eu. what we need today more than ever are pan-european debates, a better understanding of what is at stake, higher voter turnout and also a more direct link between the election result and the leadership of the commission. in his state of the union address in september, commission president barroso called on european political parties to present their candidates for the post of commission president at the european parliament elections in 2014. a commitment from the political parties to take this step would further reinforce the european dimension of these elections. this can be done without a treaty change, as the treaty says that the european council, when proposing a candidate for commission president to the european parliament, must take the elections to the european parliament into account. this is therefore something which should be put into practice with immediate effect. concerning gender balance, you know that the commission actively promotes gender equality; however, you address your call for gender balance in the next college to the future commission president, therefore you will certainly understand that it is not for this commission to discuss the future president’s actions. regarding the precise dates of the european elections in 2014, it would be unfortunate if they negatively affected the turnout. if the council adopts a decision proposing a different date for the european parliament’s elections, the council and parliament, which has to be consulted in line with the amended electoral act of 1976, should ensure that clarity about the date is provided as soon as possible. the need for a stronger political union with more accountability and democratic legitimacy of decisions taken at european level is and must remain at the centre of all debates on the future of the eu. the role of this parliament is of crucial importance in this context.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution we are about to vote on contains, as the commissioner has already said, three points. the first concerns the advance of the date of the elections: the proposal is intended to ensure that by the end of the summer the commission will be in a position to begin its work. it will be assessed whether this is possible - as the commissioner has rightly said - so that the date will lead to an increase in voter turnout rather than a decrease. the most important proposal, however, is the one which calls for the political parties to identify - i prefer to speak of 'political parties' rather than 'political families' - the possible president of the commission, precisely to show the need for the formation of genuine european political parties. this is very important, precisely because it helps to make europe a part of the european electorate. the decline in voter turnout is also largely due to the fact that during the european elections we talk about other things, we do not talk about europe, but about national problems. the european elections are seen only as a check on the internal political settings. we must talk about europe during elections and we must make sure that citizens have a serious and genuine conviction that their vote counts when it comes to european policies. so i think that the commission president's statement is one element that gives the citizens that feeling. there will certainly be much more debate than in europe's past in the next elections, precisely because the economic crisis has brought to light the underlying debate: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. so this is what we 're gonna talk about . the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the third question concerns the composition of the commission, apart from the gender issue: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this would also serve to give the voting public the feeling that they count something in their vote. in this sense i think the resolution deserves our support.
the s&d group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the present crisis is not just an economic crisis: it is also a political crisis, linked to the contradiction between the prevalence of national political spaces and the need for the euro to have a european government based on european institutions that are democratically legitimized at european level. that is why the resolution we are going to vote on is of great importance.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr de la malène, for his report, which is a very good report and which i hope will be adopted by the house. the european parliament has been the first to express its views on the situation in the middle east. so the reform that this resolution proposes to bring about - a reform that does not require amendment of the treaties, does not require amendment of secondary legislation - is a major political and institutional reform, because through the mechanism - on the model of parliamentary regimes, we are not talking about direct elections, of course, on the model of parliamentary democracies - the indication, by the european political parties - which are recognised in the treaties, are an entity that is present in the treaties - of their candidate for the presidency of the commission, not only gives effect to the spirit and the letter of the treaties, which say that the president of the commission is elected by parliament and that his appointment must take account of the result of the elections, but also brings about a reform which, by allowing citizens to compete directly in the choice of europe's politician, offers that basic democratic legitimacy, namely, a genuine european political space, which is the condition for the legitimacy of their common european institutions, in addition to the effective democratic legitimacy of their political government. moreover, this reform is not, in my view, in any way contrary to the right call for the independence of the commission, because article 17 itself, which refers to the independence of the commission in so far as it speaks of a qualified majority vote in the council and, in fact, refers to the result of the elections to the european parliament, clearly demonstrates, as happens in normal democratic regimes, that democratic legitimacy and the independence of a government body are not in contradiction with each other. it is therefore a question of democratizing and politicizing, of strengthening the commission's action and, as a whole, of building a european union which is more legitimate, stronger, closer to the citizens and therefore more capable of responding to the extraordinary crisis we are going through, which, even with reforms such as this, can also become an opportunity to take another step forward on the road to political europe.
i said at the beginning that there was no catch-the-eye procedure because that was the agreement reached by the political groups on monday, since this item was on the agenda on monday. as a rule, therefore, only one member speaks on behalf of the group. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval.
member of the commission. − madam president, as president barroso said in his state of the union address before this house, we need a european public space where european issues are discussed and debated from a european standpoint. we cannot continue to try to solve european problems just with national solutions and debates. the mff is a case in point. therefore the commission values your engagement to enhance the european political process and to enable eu citizens to also become genuine eu political actors, be it in the context of the european elections in 2014 or beyond. the presentation by european political parties of their candidate for the post of commission president at the european parliament elections in 2014 would be an important step. for the choice of commissioners, the most important aspect is that commissioners-designate are chosen on the grounds of their competence, their european commitment and their independence. the treaty provides a clear mechanism for the choice of commissioners. within this framework the european political families are always free to look for the best way to ensure the best candidatures. in any event, parliament hears all commissioners and must give its consent to their appointment. there are many other elements that eu institutions, european political parties and member states can use to promote the european project with our citizens. it is now for all of us to take the appropriate and sometimes bold decisions in the run-up to the elections in 2014. it is with this in mind that the commission will come up with proposals to enhance the democratic legitimacy of our union.
at the end of the debate i would like to say that i have received a motion for a resolution. in accordance with article 110 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 22 november, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. i would like to welcome the president of the court of auditors, mr vitor manuel da silva caldeira.
member of the commission. − madam president, the debate clearly shows that shared management is still one of the main topics also for this year’s budgetary discharge procedure. but there remain issues for the funds under direct management by the commission. i can assure you that the commission will carefully analyse the court’s observations and that it will implement its recommendations in due course. the work has already started and i would like to draw your attention to the annual activity reports of directors-general of the commission which for the first time in their history almost completely correspond with the assessment of the court and on the basis of those annual activity reports and on the basis of reservations made by the director-general of agri, the director-general of research and other directors-general, they have to produce concrete action plans on how to improve the situation in the areas under their management. i believe that my colleagues, commissioner cioloş, commissioner geoghegan-quinn, commissioner hahn and others will participate in the discharge procedure and will explain what concrete actions they will implement in order to address the problems reflected in the reservations of their directors-general. i would like also to draw your attention to one aspect, which is that when we talk about complicated rules it is not only complicated rules at an eu level; and as i said in my introductory statement, we made proposals for the next financial period to significantly simplify eu rules. it is also very problematic that member states introduce even more complicated rules and quite a significant amount of errors are caused by complicated rules at member state level. this issue, i believe, has to be addressed very thoroughly. bart staes raised the issue of own resources and vat fraud and the commission is working very hard on this subject and we tabled a proposal on a fast reaction mechanism. we are looking forward to a swift adoption of this proposal by the council which will significantly reduce the risk of fraud on vat and next month i will come with a package of proposals on how to fight tax fraud and evasion, including measures on further improvements in the vat area. i hope that these measures will provide sufficient tools in order to improve the situation in the area of vat collection. the rapporteur also mentioned the issues related to net corrections and i think that it is very important that the legislation which is currently on the table includes the net corrections for the next financial programming period and as i understand it we are moving in this direction. i hope that finally legislation will be adopted containing this very important provision. i count on your support during this discharge procedure and expect close cooperation with the council presidencies to ensure that issues highlighted in this discharge procedure will be given the necessary attention by the member states.
president of the court of auditors. − madam president, let me first thank the honourable members for their kind words to me and to those working in the court of auditors. rest assured that we do our utmost to contribute to the effort that addresses the key priority we face today: to ensure sound financial management of public finances in the european union. i have been asked whether, if receipts are missing, an auditor can accept a reply of ‘so what?’ i would say probably in some instances the receipts are not there, and you can go to our report and see that we have identified the problem and said there is a missing receipt and we have to draw the consequences. an auditor cannot accept ‘so what?’ as a reply. those responsible, like those in this house, also have a role to play in addressing the underlying courses of the problems. many members have stressed the need to improve from where we are. but we should remember where we were at the beginning of this framework programming period and note where we are today. this shows improvement: what the court is saying is that to make the best use of the funds available, there is scope to use them more efficiently and in a better targeted way. but here, indeed, the national authorities have a key fundamental role to play, because they are the first line of defence in terms of the best use of these funds. of course, if you add complexity because you devolve to national authorities the eligibility conditions for payments to be made, then you may end up with 27 different sets of eligibility conditions. that will certainly lead to complexity. but now, whilst we are addressing the future regulations for the next framework period, we have a golden opportunity to address the causes of the problems. systems are there for a period, so we would not expect that error rates or the most likely error will move from 0 to 10 or from 1 to 100. no: systems are there; if you do not solve the causes of the problems we cannot expect huge changes afterwards. our recommendation, honourable members, is clear: for a long time we have been calling for simpler schemes for using the funds, and for action on defining them and assigning to them clear objectives and cost-effective control systems. we should also aim to be in a position to see whether we want to tolerate the risk of error in some situations. that is a task this house and the council were invited to reflect upon by the court of auditors in 2004. our task, as auditors, is to address the risk areas. this is a matter of priority for us. we draw up clear recommendations for improvements. that is our role and we are doing that as much as we can. we are also aware, mr vaughan, that administrative errors may occur and if they are there they indicate that we have a potentially high risk in the system that will materialise afterwards in quantifiable situations which may put all the money at risk. i fully share the view of mrs gräßle that member states and the commission need to work together to make things revolve when they have a shared responsibility, and i want to reassure mr audy that i have taken good note of his suggestion of the court’s rôle d’alerte. there is scope to make an effort to bring problems to the attention of this house. my colleagues and i will duly consider that request.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by jörg leichtfried, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of power to adopt certain measures (com (2011) 0349 - c7-0162/2011 - 2011/0153 (cod)) (a7-0096/2012)
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one thing is the technique: so we delegate the trade policy choices to the commission, and that is fine. one thing is concrete. what we fear, as a group of the northern league, as representatives of the northern regions of our country, are trade choices, the gradual lowering of tariffs, the lack of any industrial policy, the giving way to multinationals. so it is all right that this parliament technically delegates the choices to the commission, but it is not all right that we are absolutely slaves and subservient to the choices of an old industrial and economic policy, the world trade organisation, which favours the great foreign powers without in any way defending our producers. i do not know if you are aware of how many small and mediumsized enterprises are closing down in this period in lombardy and veneto because of commercial agreements which do not protect our product at all. you cannot think that research and innovation alone will go far, when we risk remaining a desert, as in the countries of the east, where we no longer find a single commercial centre other than the big multinationals or northern europe or america or asia. we therefore delegate to the commission, as a parliament, these acts concerning trade policy, in the hope that the commission will, however, review, modernise and defend what is a production and trade fabric that is otherwise going to disappear. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. with all due respect for your work and that of others, we could do better than that. i invite you to come and see for yourself in the productive environment of northern italy how much the agreements reached with the cmo have a positive or negative impact on our firms and our companies. in half an hour, we'll talk about chinese photovoltaics. i think that europe, as it is structured, matters very little or nothing today. i don't know if individual states would count more: i know that the trade policy pursued by the european commission is absolutely unsuccessful for our companies in this respect. the free market tout-court serves no one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a special thanks to the rapporteur, mr jörg leichtfried, for the document we are considering. it is an important report because it defines better the interinstitutional relations between parliament and the commission on a very sensitive subject, which has seen the powers of parliament extended to a competence, trade, which was outside the european parliament's codecision. there is therefore a fundamental problem, which is not linked to the regulations which we are going to touch on in today's report, which therefore enter into force with a new regulation, but which concerns the relationship between the european parliament and the commission. in this respect, i would say that while i am very pleased with the report by mr leichtfried, i am very displeased with the words spoken by the commissioner in this house. there is still too much technicality in relations between parliament and the commission; there is a clear and constant attempt by the commission and the council to reduce and return the european parliament to what it was before lisbon, and we cannot allow that. that is why it is important to set a time limit for delegation; it is important to ask the commission for more specifics, and it is important to strengthen the european parliament's control of this aspect. only in this way can we also respond to the problems raised by mr salvini: i am in full agreement with the idea that the union should retain exclusive competence in matters of trade policy and that the power of the european union should be strengthened in relation to individual states. but we must also be stronger within the world trade organization, in the realization that without greater attention to the real economy we will not get out of the crisis into which we have fallen.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am ashamed of myself! while they're closing down businesses and workers are staying home, you come to us and tell us that we are the most open market in the world and that maybe in nine months we'll close the investigation? here is someone who has not understood why he is being paid by european taxpayers! if commissioner de gucht says that we do not owe china a trade war, someone has already declared war. i think you are quite clear how many firms are closing and how many workers are staying at home, or perhaps in brussels this is not the case? i would like to see the workers who lost their jobs and the entrepreneurs who lost 30 or 40 or 50 years of work to what we all know: the economic crisis. does anyone in this house have any doubts that china is unfairly competing, exploiting its workers, illegally aiding its companies, not respecting environmental issues? does anyone here have any doubts that can be resolved not in nine months but in nine days? i am ashamed to represent a europe which, when this survey is over, will have nothing in terms of photovoltaic energy. the word "tariff" is a dirty word to some. if anyone still wants to do something, put these tariffs in or resign, because nine months for an investigation of which everyone is aware of the elements i think is really too long.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that in your pilgrimage through europe in these difficult times you have also seen your own competence in relation to the issues introduced by the crisis we are experiencing. i believe that you have been able to touch the situation in europe and nothing worse could happen to someone like me than to have to, at the end of this commitment, have to agree with mr salvini. so we have to be aware of the situation we're in: we know that china is a big opportunity, as well as a big problem. it is an opportunity for those companies which export 170 billion volumes a year to china, even though they know that we import 250 billion volumes and that we therefore have a trade deficit. but if we do not introduce firm and precise rules for fair trade, it is clear that we will eventually increase and fuel the anti-european wave against the institutions of the european union. what more do we have to do and say to make you understand in that turris eburnea which is the european commission what the situation is that we are facing? even the constant preaching about innovation and development clashes with areas like this one, where we are at the forefront of research and innovation! so you cannot fail to realise, and the many gnomes who live in the commission's offices cannot fail to realise, that the times you are talking about are incompatible even with the common sense of modesty with regard to europe and the problems we face! so i think you really have to make an effort to understand that the imposition of fair trade rules by the world's leading economic power is simply to exalt one's dignity, to be able to be in a big village - which is the global world today - with dignity. today europe is not doing that for its citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this is an important decision. the debate is also quite heated, but because the situation in the industrial world and the world of work in our countries is hot. a major decision on the substance and a major decision also from a symbolic point of view as regards the principle. it is a sign of legality and respect for the efforts of our entire business community. our world: the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to ensure that the community's trade policy is not only a matter of the community's own interests, but also of the interests of the community's citizens. warning: it is also a business world that looks at china as a great export opportunity, a business world that is standing, in some sectors, precisely because of the market that we have been able to cultivate with china. so this is not about being protectionist and barricading. it is about not being fooled, especially in a sector such as photovoltaics, which is so crucial to the sustainability of our future. but there is no doubt, commissioner, that we must try to speed up the timing of this inquiry so that possible damage can be estimated and claimed much more quickly than is foreseen. not only that, we also need to work on prevention: this whole debate is about what happens after what happened. the bilateral agreements must therefore be strengthened to avoid this kind of situation with china and other countries in the future.
mr president, this toy was distributed for this report: it is a shark stuffed animal that is "made in china" without ce marking, which is mandatory under the european directive. this parliament has done so much for the safety of toys and so has the european commission: so i would say it's not appropriate for these products to be circulating.
mr president, i would just like to point out to my colleagues in the group that there is a negative sign on amendment no 14 to this report, in the voting list, whereas there is a positive sign for amendment no 14. just to signal that there's been a mistake.
mr president, shark finning is unacceptable both from an environmental point of view, because it threatens the sustainability of certain species of sharks, and from a social and economic point of view, because it involves the waste of a food commodity of commercial value, and from an ethical point of view, because it shows a complete lack of respect for animal life. although this practice has been banned in european waters and for the european fleet since 2003, the commission has decided to present a proposal which also aims to abolish the derogation from the ban on removing shark fins on board union fishing vessels. this proposal will not only further ensure that sharks receive the protection they need, but will also enable the european union to make an active contribution to the global effort to eradicate the cruel practice of shark finning in other parts of the world.
mr president, we support the resolution adopted today on international child abduction and the management of relations with those third countries which have decided to sign the hague convention. the problem persists within the union states: the european union has also been involved in the negotiations for the adoption of the convention on the rights of the child, which is a key instrument in the implementation of the convention. we hope that this report will bring attention back to the cases of child abduction between member states. we recall that it must be a priority for the union to encourage the member states to accept and apply the hague convention, in order to find solutions that are right for children and for bi-national couples. a european central body for family law should be established.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the gróbarczyk report on the regulation of baltic salmon fishing. the text was drawn up only after extensive consultation with all interested parties, fishermen, sport fishermen, institutions and ngos. the current lack of specific controls on recreational fisheries is a focal point, putting endangered species in particular at risk. this text lays down specific and clear rules which will make it possible to unify the principles of control and management of recreational fisheries.
in writing. - considering that this report has been drawn up following a wide consultation of stakeholders and that its purpose is to propose clear rules which will allow the management and control of recreational fisheries to be unified, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - i believe that the proposal for a multiannual plan for the baltic salmon stock and the fisheries exploiting that stock can bring about significant improvements in the management of the baltic salmon fishery. the proposed amendments will strengthen controls by increasing reporting requirements and imposing a minimum landing size of 65 cm for both salmon and sea trout. this is aimed at protecting salmon breeding populations which have experienced a sharp reduction in relative volumes. particular attention should be paid to recreational fishing, which needs to be properly monitored in order to reduce its impact on the stock level. i believe that urgent action is needed to prevent the rapid increase in unreported catches. by voting in favour, i express my will to take concrete action to promote sustainable fishing by applying new, clear and transparent rules.
in writing. the multiannual plan for the protection of baltic salmon is a key element of fisheries stock management in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the report by mr grobarczyk examines various issues concerning the protection of salmon in the baltic, including the breeding of the species concerned, sport fishing, artisanal fishing, catch controls and the impact of predators. the commission, in its proposal, delegates to the member states the regulation of certain areas which are considered to fall within the exclusive competence of the union (conservation of marine resources), in effect supporting the decentralisation and regionalisation of the management of the eu fisheries policy.
in writing. - i support the leichtfried report, which contains a package of 10 regulations on commercial policy already in force which need to be brought into line with the provisions of the treaties on delegated and implementing acts. i think it is essential to stress that this text has made it possible to increase parliamentary control, by giving the european commission powers for only five years, obliging it to produce a report on the delegation of acts within nine months of the expiry of the five-year period.
in writing. - the measures contained in the 'trade omnibus ii' package need to be brought into line with the treaty provisions on powers delegated to the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new measures. limiting the delegation of powers to the european commission to five years allows for greater parliamentary scrutiny, while the tacit extension of the delegation streamlines the procedure, facilitating the implementation of the common commercial policy. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. the proposal amends certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of powers for the adoption of the trade omnibus ii measure. it aims to bring 10 regulations in the field of commercial policy into line with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty and provides for the introduction of delegated acts for the first time in european union law. i am in favour of the circumscription and definition of these delegated acts, which is the european parliament's review.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. this report is necessary to enable the european parliament, as the democratic body of the union, to give full effect to the newly acquired powers and to exercise adequate parliamentary control over the commission, while allowing for flexible, timely and predictable implementation of the common commercial policy.
in writing. - this proposal will make it possible to adapt certain regulations on the common commercial policy to the new provisions of the treaty of lisbon. in this context, i think it is particularly important to confirm the wording of article 290. that provision empowers the legislator to delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application amending non-essential elements of the legislative act. but the legislator retains the power to veto delegated acts. the aim of this intervention is to strengthen the role of the parliamentary body as the directly elected representative of the eu citizens. wishing to see the implementation of a renewed common commercial policy and the allocation of newly acquired powers to parliament more effectively.
in writing. - the text by mr leichtfried aims to bring the procedures of trade regulations, which were issued before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, into line with the new system of delegated or implementing acts. i voted in favour of this because i think it is right to allow the european parliament, as the directly elected representative of the eu citizens, to give full effect to the newly acquired powers and to exercise adequate parliamentary control over the executive, while allowing for flexible, timely and predictable implementation of the common commercial policy.
in writing. - in adopting this document, parliament, in the light of the commission's proposal to the european parliament and the council, fully recognises the need for technical measures to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the conservation of the ecosystems in which they live. in the design and development of such measures, the need to take into account the continuous evolution of fisheries management, as well as scientific advice, is recognised. it is strongly emphasised that the importance of precise wording is further highlighted by the fact that poorly designed or inappropriate technical measures can lead to unsustainable fishing practices and, in some cases, endanger the lives and safety of fishermen. finally, it was pointed out that technical measures must be carefully designed on a zone-by-zone and case-by-case basis and cannot be considered as general rules applicable in the same way in all member states.
in writing. − the sustainability of fisheries must be ensured by enforcing compliance with technical conservation measures by fishermen throughout the european union. i believe that urgent action is needed to ensure that the current legislation is extended further, as is necessary to achieve the objectives of the common fisheries policy. i can only hope that, in addition to the extension of the validity of the technical measures in force, the adoption of a definitive regulatory framework will be ensured, so that the current framework, which gives rise to repeated abuses, will no longer be temporary. clear technical measures will ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and the conservation of the ecosystems in which they live, as well as compliance with a number of restrictions necessary to protect the lives and safety of fishermen. i am fully aware of the need for this extension and therefore i am voting in favour, but at the same time i would like to draw attention to the need to work together towards a more complex and effective regulatory framework.
in writing. − technical conservation measures are rules that fishermen throughout the european union are required to respect on a daily basis in their fishing trips, to ensure that fishing is always sustainable, regardless of how and where it is carried out. those measures concern, inter alia, minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size of nets, no-take zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment, and therefore have a significant impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy. in view of the importance of the technical measures instrument in a regional approach to fisheries management, i have expressed my support for mr gallagher's text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs patrão neves because it represents a fundamental breakthrough in ensuring greater regulation of shark fishing. unfortunately, many shark species are being overfished due to increased market demand. to combat this ferocious fishing, it is necessary to impose strict rules requiring all fishing vessels to land in their home port with the bodies of the sharks intact, that is to say with the fins 'naturally attached to the body'. regulating shark fishing is not only a way of respecting the marine ecosystem but also of making the european market sustainable and fair and not just based on the logic of profit.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the barbaric practice of 'pushing' will be banned from the eu once and for all. this decision was considered the only viable one by both the european commission and the envi committee, in order to conserve this animal species and at the same time protect the ecosystem.
in writing. - finning is the most frequently used spinning operation on fishing vessels. drifting kills between 50 and 75 million sharks every year. it is a barbaric practice, permitted for frequent use by an exception provided for by eu legislation in 2003. parliament voted today to put an end to this loophole, namely the possibility of obtaining special fishing permits.
in writing. − the practice of finning, which involves taking shark fins on board fishing vessels and then discarding their bodies at sea, has been officially banned in the european union since 2003. to put a stop to this practice, it would be necessary to introduce an obligation to land sharks with their fins still attached. the mediterranean is now the prey of many fishing vessels engaged in this activity, as it is a sea rich in mako and green sharks, which are at risk of being certified as endangered species. illegal fishing is on the rise in the mediterranean, partly because of the high demand for shark fins and partly because of the high price they fetch. the marine ecosystem is seriously damaged by this unsustainable fishing practice, especially in recent years in the mediterranean sea, where several shark populations have been recorded to be affected by this activity. greater cooperation is needed to combat illicit fishing activities effectively. to make this happen, member states must step up controls both at sea and in ports, preventing the carcasses of sharks from being thrown overboard. the practice of finning therefore needs to be transparent, controlled and, above all, regulated in order to be considered a sustainable and non-invasive fishery.
in writing. - my vote in favour of mrs patrão neves' report expresses my total rejection of the cruelties perpetrated against sharks so far. the lack of adequate transparency in the legislation has in fact given the upper hand to those who have practiced the cutting of shark fins with impunity and then discarded the body in the sea. with today's vote we are calling for the sharks caught to be landed with their fins still attached to their bodies, so that the necessary checks can be carried out and that such barbaric acts by those who i do not think i can call 'fishermen' are discouraged by means of severe penalties, because they would bring into disrepute a category which i believe respects civil law and the marine ecosystem.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because an amendment was adopted which states that the removal of shark fins from fishing vessels, i.e. before landing, is absolutely prohibited: this is necessary to prevent the practice of 'spinning' - the removal of the fins of a shark that is caught and then thrown back into the sea, often still alive, but mutilated and destined to certain death. it is clear that this is an unnecessary barbarism, which does not respect animal life, nature and the environment, and which must therefore be stopped. i would like to point out, however, a worrying incident which took place in the margins of this report, and on which vice-president angelilli was right to speak: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. i would say that this is a matter for reflection, because often we try to establish rules of protection and guarantee, which are then ignored even within the european parliament itself.
in writing. - i fully supported this vote on the report on the removal of shark fins, also taking into account the suggestions i have received from some ngos concerned with the protection of this marine species. i think that simultaneous landing of shark parts is an entirely inadequate response to the current problems, because unidentified finning activities could still be possible even with strict application of the fin-to-carcass matching, which would still be difficult, costly and laborious. i also think that the proposal to increase the ratio of fin to carcass to 14% of the working weight is an unprecedented indulgence in fining controls (well over 3 times higher than in most countries using the matching system). there is another problem: counting fins and matching them to carcasses in high-volume fisheries would complicate rather than improve enforcement; the traceability is actually much easier through the policy of attached fins. 'independent' control systems are costly and may involve the risk of inaccuracies. the claims made by industrial fishing for possible economic losses appear hasty and superficial and have been subject to minimal external controls, and remain arbitrary and inconsistent.
in writing. - today, at the strasbourg plenary session, we voted on the report by mr patrao neves. many shark species are exposed to heavy exploitation. in recent years, some species have been overfished and are now endangered due to the dramatic increase in demand for derived products, especially fins. the ban, in place since 2003, prohibits the spinning of sharks on board fishing vessels. the resolution adopted today in plenary removes the exceptions, namely those special permits for cutting fins at sea which suspended the ban so as to allow the spinning on vessels that demonstrated their ability to use all parts of the shark. later, the fins and carcasses could be landed in different ports, making it difficult to count accurately and thus to find those who violated the ban by throwing the sharks without fins into the sea.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. today's decision is particularly important in order to fully protect this species, which is very valuable for the marine habitat and is unfortunately at risk of extinction.
in writing. - i believe that the practice of removing shark fins is unacceptable and that action is needed in this context to prevent this practice from being carried out on board fishing vessels. the export of shark fins, also known as 'spinning', is already regulated in the eu, which has banned it but provides for a derogation from the ban whereby 'spinning' can be carried out on board fishing vessels subject to special authorisations. i think that we must reflect on the seriousness of this horrible practice from an environmental point of view, as regards the protection of certain animal species, but also from an economic point of view. in this last respect, in fact, 'spinning' - since it consists of removing the fins of pelagic sharks and then discarding the other parts of the animal's body into the sea - prevents the marketing of a food product. in order to ensure that the interests involved are respected, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. - shark finning is unacceptable both from an environmental point of view, as it threatens the sustainability of some shark species, and from a social and economic point of view, as it involves the waste of a food commodity with commercial value, and from an ethical point of view, as it shows a complete lack of respect for animal life. although this practice has been banned in european waters and for the european fleet since 2003, the commission has decided to present a proposal which also aims to abolish the derogation from the ban on removing shark fins on board union fishing vessels. this proposal will not only further ensure that sharks receive the protection they need, but will also enable the eu to actively contribute to the global effort to eradicate the cruel practice of shark finning in other parts of the world.
in writing. − the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is undoubtedly of great importance because it establishes a system which allows participating states to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction. i therefore agree with the content and the requests made to the council in this resolution.
in writing. - i believe that there is an urgent need to clarify the legal situation concerning the international abduction of children by defining jurisdiction and by solving the problem of the law applicable according to the place of residence of the child. i believe that cooperation between states is necessary to solve the problems of international child abduction by accepting the accession of new states to the hague convention by those countries which are already parties to it. i am therefore voting in favour of the report, which calls for the protection of the rights of children to be given priority.
in writing. − the conference will be an opportunity to highlight the importance of safeguarding robust internet services based on the principle of maximum effort, promoting innovation and freedom of expression, ensuring competition and avoiding the creation of a new digital divide.
in writing. - since its adoption in melbourne in 1988, the international telecommunications regulations (itrs) have never been amended. recently, there has been a need to amend the text of the itrs to bring it into line with the radically changed technological, economic and social context. i believe that international regulatory review processes require the widest participation and sharing of all stakeholders: citizens, businesses, associations and public administration. i also believe that when defining the international regulatory environment for the internet and telecommunications, the open, competitive and innovative nature of the internet in the future must be guaranteed, as well as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression and assembly.
in writing. − as the durban package contains measures that have proved insufficient to deal with the consequences of climate change, i hope that the doha conference will provide a platform for dialogue, leading to the adoption of a legally binding global agreement. the doha conference will have to provide the impetus to ensure that ambitious targets and specific instruments are pursued to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is necessary to recognise the urgency of taking concrete measures, taking into account, for example, the positive results achieved by innovations in the field of sustainable energy, which can create jobs, increase growth and address climate change. the next global agreement will be an opportunity to agree on a strengthened action capable of meeting the commitments made, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − i support this report because i value positively the new negotiating approach for future enlargements, which prioritises issues related to the judiciary and fundamental rights, as well as to justice and home affairs. enlargement has been part of the eu agenda since as early as the 1960s and has been a successful process for the eu and europe as a whole. it contributed to peace, stability and prosperity throughout europe. it also enhanced conflict prevention, stimulated reforms and consolidated the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. for these reasons, taking into account both the experience of past enlargements and the new realities created by the economic crises, the moment has come for a re-evaluation of the established related procedures and of enlargement policy as a whole, without prejudice to the ongoing negotiations.
in writing. - while i agree that the report is well thought out, i do not agree with the full support for enlargement policies and the paragraphs on the need for visa liberalisation and publicity to inform european citizens of the many benefits that the enlargement process would bring to them and to the member states. for these reasons, i think it is appropriate to abstain.
in writing. − enlargement policy is the future of the european union, to ensure cohesion and integration. the recent financial crisis has highlighted the link between the various national economies of member states and non-eu countries. it is therefore very important to strengthen relations, particularly economic ones, with the countries that will be candidates or are already candidates for accession to the union. it is essential to create a climate of harmony and reconciliation between different nations and peoples, fostering economic, cultural and religious dialogue. the peaceful settlement of conflicts and the establishment of good neighbourly relations between european countries are essential for sustainable peace and stability and contribute to a genuine process of integration. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european union is a very important one. finally, we must ensure that enlargement remains a credible policy based on democracy, human rights and reconciliation.
in writing. − i believe that a more efficient and forward-looking enlargement policy could be a valuable strategic tool for the eu's economic development. it should aim to create important budgetary synergies and better coordination between the various measures and types of assistance provided by the union, the states and the international financial institutions. in this sense, the eu's policies and strategic interests should be geared towards increasing political and economic cohesion. the actions undertaken within the european parliament are certainly a good sign in this direction. but that 's not enough . the member states must be the bearers of these instances and the messengers of a message of cohesion and efficiency for their communities, in line with the work that europe is doing through its institutional channels.
in writing. − the interdependence of economies, both within and outside the union, underlines the importance of further strengthening economic and financial stability and promoting growth, including in the candidate and potential candidate countries. it is therefore necessary to provide the candidate and potential candidate countries with adequate and more targeted pre-accession financial assistance.
in writing. - the issue of enlargement of the european union is a highly complex one and must be analysed from all points of view, both economically, for its geopolitical repercussions and for the social impact it may have. i believe that, especially in a time of economic crisis, it is appropriate to exercise the utmost caution and to learn from past mistakes. unlike the rapporteur, i do not believe that it is the eu's job to promote enlargement in the candidate countries, nor do i believe that enlargement has always been a positive thing, nor that visa liberalisation policies have always been beneficial. i am not in a position to vote for this report because of these doubts.
in writing. − the enlargement process needs to be fuelled by sustained interest and concrete support, also in the light of the new realities created by the economic crisis. through a reform policy aimed at the enlargement countries, it will be possible to contribute to greater stability and prosperity in europe. i believe that the improvement of this process must start with the identification of concrete objectives, such as strengthening democratic governance in certain countries and focusing on the consolidation of economic and financial stability. i believe that this instrument can be made more effective by providing for new criteria for membership which take account of the social implications. this will give a new impetus to the aspirant countries' efforts to achieve the objectives. it is also necessary to promote the prospect of prosperity and stability offered by eu membership, by sponsoring its political, socioeconomic and cultural benefits. each applicant country will have to demonstrate that it is honouring its commitments and the eu will have to commit itself to removing obstacles to the success of enlargement policy. in particular, the eu will have to commit itself to ensuring that smart, sustainable and inclusive growth is one of its priorities. i am voting in favour of supporting further enlargements and encouraging the candidate countries to pursue reforms.
in writing. the european parliament today reiterated the clear position it has expressed on several occasions: the only way to end the violence and hostility between palestine and israel is the establishment of two sovereign states for two peoples. the new escalation of violence, the innocent victims, including many women and children, demands an immediate and decisive solution to the conflict without any further delay. the european union, by virtue of its nobel peace prize, must step up its efforts to achieve a final ceasefire and to remove the causes of this perennial conflict. it is also important to have reaffirmed european support for the application by palestine to become a non-member observer state of the united nations.
in writing. − i support this resolution because we must send a signal to both sides of the conflict. we strongly condemn the new outbreak of violence in and around the gaza strip and we ask for an urgent de-escalation and cessation of hostilities. all attacks must end immediately as they cause unjustifiable suffering of innocent civilians. i believe in the urgent need to bring humanitarian assistance to all the people affected by the conflict, and in particular to the deprived population in the gaza strip. it must be reiterated again that, in protecting its population from the missile attacks, israel must act proportionately. unfortunately this is not what is happening. with this text we support the efforts of egypt to mediate for a rapid, sustainable ceasefire and welcome the mission of the united nations secretary-general to the region. the only way to achieve a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians is through the resumption of direct peace talks between both parties. for this reason i support palestine’s bid to become an un non-member observer.
in writing. - we must do everything possible to bring about an immediate cessation of hostilities between israel and palestine. the current situation once again highlights the urgent need to move towards a two-state solution, which allows both sides to live side by side in peace and security. the european union must continue to work with all the parties with influence in the region to achieve this solution.
in writing. the eu calls for an immediate cessation of hostilities between the gaza strip and israel. the eu expressed great concern at the situation in the strip, and reiterated its strong commitment to creating the conditions for the resumption of dialogue. i look with confidence to the role of moderator assumed by europe and i hope for maximum restraint in the conduct of military operations. in recent times, old tensions have been grafted onto a new scenario stemming from the arab spring. not only the individual european states but also the european union must increasingly assume its responsibilities. i look with confidence to the solution envisaged, namely the creation of two states, one israeli and the other palestinian. the latter is a solution which i believe has the potential to be long-lasting and sustainable. in this respect, it is imperative to move gradually by involving all the actors and, above all, by offering the necessary guarantees to all those involved.
in writing. − i voted against this report because, although i am in favour of the creation of a european defence force, i believe that this can be achieved through a further decrease in the member states’ national security budgets. this text suggests instead that defence cuts may lead to lack of credibility of the eu. concerning eu-nato cooperation, i believe in a clear separation of the eu from nato. we must consider that nato is a military-political alliance created to fight a threat, soviet communism, which ceased to exist 23 years ago. for this reason, in recent years, nato has tried to reinvent its role, creating new enemies. i believe that european countries should reduce year by year their share of the nato budget and refrain from stronger cooperation with it. to conclude, i would value it if a report like this one were to focus also on civil peaceful conflict solutions and not only on eu military interventionism.
in writing. - a review or rethinking of the european foreign policy strategy is a topical issue, especially in the light of the recent revolutionary events that have characterised, for over a year and a half now, several nations bordering the european union. there is a growing need to equip the eu with an effective and strong foreign policy, with credible civilian and military capabilities. however, it should also be remembered that the expenditure chapters devoted to security and foreign policy, as with other european policies, have to face the constraints of national economies, which are now the main protagonists in the debate on the new financial perspectives of the eu.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. it is urgent that the union assert its strategic autonomy through a strong and effective foreign, security and defence policy, which will enable it to act on its own if necessary. it is right to point out that this strategic autonomy will remain a mirage if we do not equip ourselves with the appropriate civilian and military instruments.
in writing. − the european union, as a global political actor, should protect its interests more effectively and guarantee the security of its citizens more vigorously, in order to ensure that it has a greater say on the international scene. i believe that if the eu is equipped with the appropriate means and is able to pursue the objective of promoting international peace and security, it will be able to gain greater strategic autonomy. in order to build up this strategic autonomy, greater efforts will be needed to make foreign, security and defence policy more effective. i believe that it is essential to take account of the evolution of global threats and to adapt the european security strategy so that europe can make a concrete contribution to peacekeeping operations in the world. only by putting in place political, economic, development and humanitarian instruments will the union be able to respond effectively to specific risks. i hope that this will give the union's action new credibility and political visibility, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − the major changes taking place in the geostrategic context of the common foreign and security policy, in particular the radical changes in the middle east and north africa and the emergence of new actors with regional or global ambitions on the international scene, must push the european union to develop its civil and military capabilities and to implement those concrete measures which will enable it to meet the new challenges. the union, which has the political, economic and humanitarian instruments it needs to operate effectively in the field of defence and security, must therefore act to ensure that these instruments are strengthened and implemented.
in writing. − i abstained from voting on this report because i disagree with the aim of the mutual defence clause itself. in practice this instrument, which makes obligatory mutual assistance within the eu by all possible means in the event of an attack on an eu member state, transforms the eu into a military alliance. moreover, in this report the solidarity clause is also applied to unarmed attacks, without clearly defining the latter, thus leading to possible dangerous interpretations.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the paşcu report. it draws the attention of the institutions to the mutual defence (article 42 (7) teu) and solidarity (article 222 tfeu) clauses, which were created with the intention of countering threats to the member states of the european union; however, three years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, there are still no implementing regulations. this legislative vacuum is intolerable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is essential that the commission makes a proposal and the council takes a decision on how these principles should be applied in practice.
in writing. − three years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, there are still no regulations implementing the solidarity and common defence clauses, provided for in articles 222 tfeu and 42 (7) teu respectively. this means that, at present, if a member state were to request aid under those provisions, there would be no codified mechanisms through which the union could act. i therefore consider that a proposal from the commission is needed on how to give concrete expression to these principles, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − to strengthen their cooperation, both nato and the european union should commit to enhancing their core capabilities, improving coordination between their doctrines, planning, technologies, equipment and training methods. it is right to reiterate the wish for a harmonisation of military requirements.
in writing. − i voted against this report because, once again, this parliament adopted a text based on a clear example of threat exaggeration. cyber-terrorism is something that many experts of terrorism do not consider a serious threat. i believe that introducing the concept that cyber-terrorism could be faced from the european union by military means is completely wrong and instrumental to a distortion of the eu’s approach to the subject of the fight against new forms of criminality.
in writing. - i support the kelam report on cyber security and defence. europe is facing a problem which we might call new and at the same time powerfully inseparable from the lives of every citizen of the union. the text clearly highlights and contextualises all the facets of this problem, highlighting the challenges that individual member states and the eu have to face and will have to face. it highlights how political, legislative and organisational obstacles exist in the eu and in the states to the development of a comprehensive and unified approach to cybersecurity. coordination and sharing between countries and the european union is still poor, and there are no clear definitions of the concepts of "cyber security and defence". the text stresses the need to strike a clear balance between security measures and citizens' rights, such as the right to privacy, data protection and freedom of expression. europe must respond to all these challenges as soon as possible with a coordinated approach at the level of the european institutions and the individual member states, with both public and private cooperation.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. a cybersecurity strategy should be developed, providing for a common definition of cybersecurity and cyber defence and the elements constituting a cyber attack on defence, as well as a common operational vision, and taking into account the added value of the agencies and bodies already established and the good practices adopted by member states that already have national cybersecurity strategies.
in writing. - it was in the news yesterday that the french presidential computer system was attacked by us-based hackers during the first and second rounds of the french presidential elections, using one of the most popular tools of communication with citizens, which is currently facebook. i would remind you that facebook is also used in this european parliament because it allows for particularly horizontal communication between members and citizens. the resolution adopted today maintains a balance between different sensitivities: the need to ensure citizens' freedom of expression and the full use of the internet, while safeguarding the integrity of the internet against abuse. the example i gave of the cyberattack on the elysée is the key to the way we have to think in this european union, within ourselves and in our relations with third countries - where too often the servers or the places of origin of the attacks are guarded - effectively preventing an effective and timely repression of abuses and crimes.
in writing. - i congratulate mr kelam on his excellent work in tackling a problem which is entirely new to the european union but which is destined to become increasingly important in the future. we must recognise that in an increasingly interconnected and globalised world, there are new challenges that concern cyberspace. a coordinated eu response to cyber challenges needs to be defined by developing a comprehensive eu cybersecurity strategy, which can be integrated into broader collaboration with the us, brics countries and nato.
in writing. − in today's globalised world, cybersecurity, security in the use of information and digital technologies, and the resilience and reliability of information services and associated infrastructure have become of crucial importance to the european union and its member states. cyber-attacks are increasing significantly and pose a serious threat to the security, defence, stability and competitiveness of national states and the private sector. the commission has therefore decided to make a further contribution to the development of the community's energy policy. most highly visible and disruptive cyber incidents now have a political motive; furthermore, the vast majority of cyber incidents remain rudimentary and threats to critical elements are becoming increasingly sophisticated and require extensive protection. the vote will be a rapid completion of the respective national strategies on cyber security and defence.
in writing. several countries are actively preparing for cyberwarfare by setting up structures dedicated to defensive cyberwarfare, but also to espionage and cyber penetration. many public and private organizations are daily targets of attacks. large-scale cyberattacks have been carried out in recent years around the world. modern, highly computerised societies are vulnerable to this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. on the technical side, never before has a set of technologies penetrated so rapidly and so deeply into human activity. the rise of a safer cyberspace requires increased involvement of states in network regulation and crisis management. it is therefore essential that europe emerges as the platform for discussion and regulation in this field. in fact, too often in recent times we have had in our hands, in the european parliament, texts with an unfortunate tendency to try to extinguish many individual freedoms, under various and varied pretexts. europe must guarantee to all its citizens that at no time is the boundary between security and privacy preserved and framed as much as possible!
in writing. − cyberspace now has almost two billion users connected globally and has become one of the most powerful and effective tools for promoting democratic ideas and for organising those citizens who seek to realise their aspirations for freedom and fight against dictatorships. given that there are many political, legislative and organisational obstacles in the european union and the member states to the development of a comprehensive and unified approach to defence and cyber security, and that there is a lack of common definitions, standards and measures in this area, i voted in favour of mr kelam's text, which aims to implement a comprehensive cyber security and cyber security strategy that is appropriate to the times we live in.
in writing. - i shall abstain on the tarand report. it is true that the effects of global climate change are becoming more and more severe, not only in terms of loss of human life, but also in economic terms of direct costs, for reconstruction and aid, and indirect costs, for the increase in the prices of insurance products and services. i also believe that it is not necessary for all european policies, instruments and policy papers to include a specific analysis of climate risks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr tarand's report because the analysis of the impact of natural disasters on international security and political stability must be a point which can no longer be deferred in the agenda of international policy priorities. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. in this regard, it is of fundamental importance to develop emergency plans to enable the european union to respond to the effects of natural disasters and climate-related crises occurring outside the union but having direct or indirect repercussions on the security of european countries, as in the case of climate migration.
in writing. − recently, public debate has focused on a number of priority issues, leaving aside the issue of climate change, whose impact on global security cannot be underestimated. the disasters of recent years have had very serious consequences in terms of both direct costs, for reconstruction and aid, and indirect costs, for the increase in insurance premiums. developing countries are particularly vulnerable to such events and the resulting difficulties in accessing water and food have a lasting impact on the economic and social fabric . i believe that the security debate should be a starting point for re-examining the problem of climate change and natural disasters. specific instruments will have to be put in place to manage the consequences, especially for vulnerable populations. i believe in the eu's ability to improve its conduct in dealing with the risks of conflict and instability due to climate change and natural disasters, and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i think that kazakhstan’s political will to further deepen partnership with the eu and the opening of the negotiations for an eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) must be supported. i believe that the peoples of the eu and kazakhstan will benefit mutually from a closer cooperation. we must also consider that kazakhstan has played a positive role in central asia, making efforts to develop good neighbourly relations with bordering countries, resume regional cooperation and resolve all bilateral issues by peaceful means. on the other hand, i am convinced that the conclusion of the new pca negotiation should provide a framework for cooperation based on democratic rights. after the tragic events of december 2011 in zhanaozen, opposition parties, independent media, trade unions, activists and human rights defenders have become targets of repression. for these reasons, with this report we urge kazakhstan to maintain its declared commitment to further reforms, in order to build up an open society including a real political opposition and a deep respect for the rule of law.
in writing. - i strongly believe in the development of eu-kazakhstan relations. the establishment of renewed cooperation will enable both sides to benefit from each other's economic development and to encourage the necessary political reforms. i believe that europe must ensure that it is engaged in supporting those priority areas such as human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democratisation. promoting dialogue between the two actors must be a priority; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that kazakhstan's efforts to improve its good neighbourly relations with neighbouring countries and to resolve bilateral issues should be appreciated. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i support the report by mr ferreira on small-scale coastal fishing, artisanal fishing and the reform of the common fisheries policy. i agree with him that small-scale fishing (which includes artisanal fishing, certain types of coastal fishing, traditional aquaculture activities such as 'natural mollusc farming') is not adequately represented in the reform of the common fisheries policy that the commission is pursuing. we must safeguard the role that these activities play in our states, which are closely linked to local economies and traditions which are often unique. the commission's fisheries policy has proved to be a failure, and i believe that the reform of the cfp must also encourage and support the development of those operators who use instruments with a lower impact on resources and who bring greater benefits to the communities in which they operate, both in terms of quality and employment.
in writing. - i fully supported this report because small-scale fishing, which includes artisanal and certain types of coastal fishing, shellfish harvesting and other traditional extensive aquaculture activities, plays a crucial role in the economic system of many areas of the mediterranean, with very diverse territorial, social and cultural repercussions both on land and in island regions. i believe that the model of fisheries management which has characterised the common fisheries policy in recent decades has proved to be a failure, often failing to take due account of local, regional and national specificities. the commission has also proposed that the fishing fleet be given a special status in the fisheries sector, which is much better considered by a management of proximity, which through scientific knowledge and the consultation and participation of the sector in the definition, implementation and co-management of policies, is certainly the one that best meets the needs of small-scale fishing. i therefore hope that in the near future all the parties concerned will be involved in the formulation of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing policies by encouraging local and regional strategies and including development, research and training projects with adequate funding from the emff, the edf and the erdf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to support small-scale fishing. this type of activity includes artisanal fishing, certain types of coastal fishing, shellfish harvesting and other traditional and extensive aquaculture activities. in recent decades, a centralised management model of the common european fisheries policy has prevailed, which has ended up harming this type of activity, which is necessary to ensure the supply of fishery products to local populations and to promote the development of coastal communities, also guaranteeing a certain level of employment. small-scale fishing is by its very nature exposed to certain types of economic risk, such as rapidly rising fuel prices, and is also particularly vulnerable to sudden changes in the availability of fishery resources; it is therefore reasonable that, within the new european maritime and fisheries fund, special support and financing measures should be provided for this sector. the union must therefore aim to promote a significant revival of this activity, while respecting the different realities and prerogatives which may vary not only at european level but also between the different areas of the same country.
in writing. − i believe that small-scale fishing should be recognised for a number of positive features including environmental sustainability by allowing the release of unwanted or illegally caught fish with a generally very low mortality rate. in addition, this is a fisheries sector which has shown extraordinary resilience to the pressure of the current global economic crisis, and it is also economically sustainable in terms of the number of jobs it supports. new and more coherent objectives must be set, which respond to the needs and specificities of small-scale fishing. this sector cannot be underestimated any further, and management must be improved by means of concrete proposals in its favour. the potential development of this sector depends on the strengthening of efforts to rejuvenate it. i am aware of the problems and the potential of small-scale fishing, which is also a factor in stabilising fishing communities in all coastal areas, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − small-scale fishing, which includes artisanal and certain types of coastal fishing, shellfish harvesting and other traditional extensive aquaculture activities, such as natural shellfish farming in coastal waters, has very diverse territorial, social and cultural impacts on the mainland and in island and outermost regions, and presents specific problems that distinguish it from large-scale fishing and intensive or industrial aquaculture. in particular, under the new fisheries policy regulation, a definition of artisanal fishing should be established, while taking into account the impact of this type of fishing on the financing of the new european maritime and fisheries fund: in this respect, projects with integrated solutions that benefit coastal communities should also be encouraged. the access of young people and women to the sector should also be facilitated by the creation of specific vocational training and initiation courses.
in writing. − with regard to future bilateral fisheries agreements (bfa), the eu must stand firm to achieve the legitimate exploitation of surplus resources at fair prices, while offering support to the development of the coastal state. in addition, urgent action is needed to prevent some countries fishing on the high seas from resorting to questionable techniques in accessing surplus resources. cooperation will be needed to ensure that concrete action is taken to ensure the sustainability of fisheries and respect for human rights in those contexts, which are today characterised by an odious climate of corruption. in view of the increased competition for fish stocks, i believe that it is urgent to address the question of equity in the distribution of resources. to this end, an efficient system of resource management must be established. shared political commitment at international level will make it possible to adopt sanctions for infringements and to pursue the specific objectives of the orgp, which will have to be managed by ensuring the protection of artisanal fisheries. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr lövin's report, although i felt that the text as a whole had some shortcomings. developing countries must take a regional approach to fisheries exploitation, taking into account both the cross-border dimension of fishing activity and the migratory nature of certain species. it is also desirable that, in order to establish a new generation of sustainable fisheries agreements, those countries commit to respect the essential and fundamental elements of human rights and democratic principles as set out in article 9 of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. - in the next consultation on the european parliament elections, i believe that greater gender balance in the choice of representatives should be promoted. i am aware of the interaction between the political representatives who make up the parliamentary institution and the role they play in our society, and i believe that it is urgent to take account of the continuing evolution of the needs and characteristics of society itself. in this context, concrete instruments should be put in place to ensure gender representation. the continuing difficulty in reversing the trend of low female representation in political representation can be addressed by focusing on the positive contribution of women's qualities and considering that the gender imbalance will have to be overcome to ensure the completion of democratic institutions. i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is a very important step in the development of the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, we are deeply concerned at the latest reports regarding the situation of migrants, asylum seekers and other vulnerable foreign nationals in libya. we have raised these issues with the libyan authorities on a regular basis and will continue to do so in the future. in reply, the authorities have acknowledged the problems and have expressed their readiness to address these issues. the contradiction between these practices and the values that triggered the 17 february revolution is very clear. the eu supported the libyan revolution from the outset because it was rooted in values that we share, especially of course respect for human rights and democratic principles. the european union will continue to be a strong partner for libya during the process of democratic transition. nevertheless – in this same spirit of partnership – we will not hesitate to convey concerns on issues of fundamental importance, such as those we are discussing today. at the same time we are sensitive to the complex situation in libya at present. over the past four months libya has undergone a period of political uncertainty with a caretaker government having to deal with numerous challenges, including a major security crisis, not just in benghazi but in a number of other parts of the country. moreover, it faces a long list of urgent priorities to address, including state-building, disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration of the revolutionary militias, national reconciliation, the promotion of the rule of law and the protection of human rights. the new government was sworn in just over a week ago. we note our full political support to prime minister zidan’s new government and trust he will do his outmost to address the different challenges lying ahead. as is the case for every new government – and in particular for libya – the authorities need time to put their house in order. nevertheless, we will not be complacent. we will continue to follow this issue closely. we will continue to press the authorities to ensure respect for human rights standards and we will continue to help them meet their responsibilities under international law. in this regard, i would like to recall that the eu is already providing a eur 20 million support package aimed at improving the protection of vulnerable groups, including migrants. further measures and projects in this regard are in the pipeline. finally, with regard to our assistance in broader terms, we are also preparing a substantial programme on the security sector reform as well as on the rule of law under the european neighbourhood policy instrument, the design of which is being finalised. the overall objective of this programme is to promote the rule of law in libya by strengthening democratic control and good governance in the security and justice sectors. the specific objective is to respond to the needs expressed by the libyan authorities in managing the process of democratic transition, especially in the security and justice sector.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 22 november 2012.
the agenda is as follows: the interim report by josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and central america, of the other part (16395/1/2011 - c7-0182/2012 - 2011/0303 ((nle)) (a7-0360/2012), and the recommendation by josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and central america, of the other part (16395/2011 - c7/118/2012 - 2011/0303 ((nle)) (a7-0362/2012).
(in reaction to the noise in the hemicycle) ladies and gentlemen, please allow the speaker to speak!
mr salafranca, i should like to inform you that the commissioner has just arrived.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the association agreement between the european union and central america is an important precedent, since it is the first bi-regional association agreement signed by the european union since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in this framework, the trade pillar forms a large part of the agreement, providing for a gradual expansion of a free trade and trade area. it is a balanced agreement, which is positive for both sides and which is fully in line with the relaunch of the bilateral partnership policies between the european union, latin america and the caribbean, a geopolitical area of the world which is extremely sensitive and also subject to the influence of the pacific area, which is strategic for the geopolitical future of europe as well. it is also important to bear in mind that all the recent events, including the less recent ones, in that geographical area of the world in recent decades have led the european union - this part of the world which is so free, so advanced and so democratic - to extend its human rights policy also through the contribution of trade. it is therefore an important agreement, the chapters of which will certainly have to be monitored over time, but which considers respect for human rights as a priority over trade, and as such it cannot fail to receive our favourable vote. this is also true of the chapters on cooperation, so that we can bring about greater integration between the very different countries of central america, and greater stability and economic, political and social development in an area which is extremely delicate but also important to us. for all these reasons, i believe that we must give our full support to this agreement and then also integrate it into the wider agreements. we shall then discuss colombia and peru and vote on these matters tomorrow. i therefore believe that we are giving a very useful direction to relations between the european union and latin america.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 december 2012.
the agenda includes the recommendation by mário david, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part (14762/1/2011 - c7-0287/2012 - 2011/0249 (nle)) (a7-0388/2012).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − madam president, we are going to vote on a good agreement. colombia and peru are two democracies which in recent times have made great improvements in almost all areas, even in the most controversial one, which is human rights. most of the extreme criticism against colombia and peru is unjustified and is made by people who do not know the changes which have occurred in these countries, not because there are no violations of human rights – they still occur – but they are a fraction of what was occurring 15 to 20 years ago. both countries show very positive trends. colombia 15 years ago was one of the most violent countries in the world, plagued by a staggering number of homicides, afflicted by drug cartels and blatant terrorism. it is not so anymore. drug cartels exist only in newspapers, killings have been reduced by 80 %, terrorism is at a historical minimum and poverty has been significantly reduced in both countries. colombia and peru are following the virtuous path of their continent. they are emancipating themselves from the big brother of the north and they deserve all our support and cooperation. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i would just tell them that we fully support their fight; we greatly deplore these episodes. i have never said there is no violation of human rights. i say that they are still occurring and they are still worrying, but the path that we have to follow is to support the democratisation of the country. we should not take the attitude of constantly lecturing them about what they should do; we should not consider them just as our pupils. this is an issue of attitude that has to be shown in every part of our relationship with them. this is a trade agreement, and trade and economic development will help also these communities in terms of making them stronger, making them more aware of their rights. this is all we can do; we cannot simply say that these countries should be blamed, that these countries should be punished, that we should put 100 conditions on them. if we apply to them the same standards that we apply for human rights in the european union we will reach a dead end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i confess that i do not understand some of the points in this debate. here no one can doubt the legitimacy and importance of opposing any form of limitation of human rights, including the most violent ones involving the killing of people. so, no one can test anyone else. the problem is actually different: if we did not sign that agreement, would the people who are in danger today in colombia or, fortunately to a lesser extent, in peru be stronger and more protected or not? that is the answer we must give. i think that without an agreement the colombian trade unionists would be objectively in more difficulty. the commission has always been aware of the fact that when the rights of individuals are denied and violated in a country, only international relations and the constant presence of democratic bodies such as the european parliament can guarantee a positive development of the rights of that country. that's the choice we have to make.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the adoption of this regulation is an important step forward in the affirmation of one of the most innovative principles of the lisbon treaty, namely the exclusive competence of the community dimension in international trade. we support the work done by president moreira and the agreement reached with the council. there is nothing more pathetic, almost anachronistic, than to see individual european countries fighting alone to wrest away this or that trading condition which is favourable only to them. i believe that the commission can certainly be a better guarantor than the individual member states of agreements which are actually useful. it is also pathetic because of the small size of our countries in a global system. the regulation provides for a sharing of competences and a margin of flexibility, but above all it puts an end to what had become a cacophony where bilateral agreements were not only a protection of their legitimate interests but, at a certain point, could also become an instrument of competition with other countries of the union, all to the detriment of the smaller and less competitive eu states on the international scene. as always, much depends on the actual implementation of this regulation. the commission is acquiring very important power - we are happy about that - and a role which we support in order to ensure that there is a real guarantor of european interests. the time limits, authorizations, notification, withdrawal of authorizations, review and so on are subject to rules which we believe are balanced in this agreement. i ask the commission to pay particular attention to the interests and needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are often the victims of this type of investment agreement but which are at the same time the most innovative and often the most likely to create jobs in our countries. above all, it will be necessary to demonstrate that european protection is more ambitious and more effective than that of the individual member states, which, however, belong to a world of a fragmented europe which, after all, we only want to see in the past.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that tomorrow the european parliament will be able to vote in favour of this regulation, which represents an important step towards the full implementation of the treaty of lisbon in trade policy. so i thank the commission for its legislative initiative and i thank especially mr vital moreira for bringing it to this point. it is certainly an important initiative because it implements the treaty, overcomes the fragmentation in the field of trade policy on investment and above all, as mr rinaldi also mentioned, avoids and overcomes internal dumping between the 27 - soon to be 28 - countries of the european union on such important matters as trade investment, which is an essential tool for competitiveness. it is therefore an agreement which provides legal certainty for investments made before the transfer of competence to the treaty of lisbon and which also regulates the transitional phase, and it is therefore a very significant and important aspect of trade policy.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by saying that the union’s macro-financial assistance (mfa) is a crucial instrument in our relations with neighbouring and candidate countries. given the negative impact of the euro debt crisis on our neighbourhood, the union should complement the imf in stabilising countries which are close to the european union. this is in our own interest, politically and economically. at the moment, however, macro-financial assistance is blocked. for two years now, ever since the commission adopted the multiannual financial proposal for georgia in january 2011, parliament and the council have disagreed on the use of the comitology procedure, as professor moreira rightly pointed out. the commission believes that it is crucial to find a solution to whether the advisory or examination procedure should be applied in the adoption of the memorandum of understanding. in the cases of the kyrgyz republic and of georgia – on which the plenary will vote tomorrow as well – the long delays in the decision-making process have put the european union in a difficult position. we are losing our credibility vis-à-vis these strategic external partners. what is more, the issue risks blocking any forthcoming mfa proposal. this could lead to political fallout for the union in our relations with egypt, jordan and armenia, which have submitted, or are about to submit, requests for mfa. the commission therefore urges parliament to continue its dialogue with the council and to consider all ways possible to overcome the impasse and unblock the mfa instrument. i believe this is of crucial importance for the balance between, on the one hand, the commission and, on the other hand, parliament and the council of ministers. as professor moreira rightly pointed out, it is important that we put the lisbon treaty into practice, thereby observing not only the letter but also the spirit of the lisbon agreements. it is really hard to understand how, even after three years, we cannot come to an agreement on such a sensitive topic – such a sensitive topic and an important political tool for european policy vis-à-vis the neighbourhood and vis-à-vis neighbouring countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the granting of assistance to the kyrgyz republic gives us an opportunity to reflect on the situation in that country. two and a half years ago, kyrgyzstan experienced a violent internal inter-ethnic crisis that undermined its political and economic stability. today we can see that the situation in the country has stabilized and that the constitutional reform and the results of the parliamentary and presidential elections have given the start to the reforms needed for the country to embark on the right path towards democratic stability. the european union has repeatedly expressed its commitment to continue to support the determined progress made by kyrgyzstan and the provision of financial support to the country would provide crucial support in terms of democratic and socioeconomic reforms. i can only hope that the legal dispute between the three institutions, which has not allowed an agreement to be reached and which is now being voted on at first reading, will be resolved quickly and that the agreed support will be given to kyrgyzstan as soon as possible. in addition, this situation and these delays, in addition to having direct consequences for the country which is waiting for assistance, in my view weigh on the union's own image, which is liable to see its authority and international reliability called into question. we have recently visited kyrgyzstan with the delegation of the european parliament, of which i have the honour of being president, and it was precisely on these issues that we were told that the decisions announced by the european institutions are taking an incomprehensible amount of time for kyrgyzstan too. i believe that solving this problem can be an essential element in giving greater credibility and authority to the european institutions and, above all, in helping to bring stability and effectiveness to the fight against terrorism in an area such as central asia which is vital for international security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, without repeating the concerns that have already been expressed by our institution by president moreira, it is clear that this macrofinancial assistance would be very important. for those who know the region, it is a real act not only of trade policy but also, in fact, of foreign policy on the part of the european union. kyrgyzstan is a country that was among the first to respond after its independence to the challenges of a difficult transition. it has developed a democracy with its ups and downs - we are definitely in a down phase at the moment - it has become a member of the world trade organisation, it has a civil society that is very much alive and it has experienced the reverses of heavy regional crises whose aftermath in recent months is accentuating. all of this, of course, comes at a price, especially in a country with large pockets of poverty. the aid gives the commission, and therefore the european union, a crucial role in working with the kyrgyz authorities to define certain structural reforms. i believe this can also help to counterbalance the growing role of both russia and china in the country. the role of the european union and the commission must be exercised with a certain degree of caution, especially as regards the social sustainability of any reform in a hardworking, poor and highly dignified country, a country which i believe is worthy of recognition, but whose authorities must also be able to develop in the protection of human rights. in this connection i would also like to mention, amongst others, the case of azimzhan askarov, a non-violent representative of the uzbek minority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, because of the crisis many negative things are happening in our countries, including my own. there are two multinational companies, one is ericsson, a swedish telecommunications company, and the other is fnac, part of a french group in the distribution of books and records, which are behaving particularly badly. ericsson is pushing workers to quit in order to reduce its workforce and is imposing heavy conditions on them, while fnac has sold its business line without providing any justification and no information to employees. we are discussing in parliament a new directive on corporate social responsibility. these are two companies that have always advocated for social responsibility, but then they behave very differently from what they say they do. i think it's important to have sanctions for those who deviate from the statements made.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this report is part of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. in particular, active ageing must become a priority for the 27 member states. demographic change is presenting the european union with a number of challenges, including the gradual increase in the population over 65 years of age. more than 87 million people, of whom more than 50 million are women. the gender gap in ageing is even more pronounced for people over 80: 3.1% of women compared to 1.6% of men in the total population. it is worth noting, however, that although women live longer than men, they are often affected by chronic and disabling diseases and are therefore subject to a deterioration in their quality of life. among the diseases that affect older women are cardiovascular diseases, which are mistakenly considered to be a typically male problem, respiratory diseases, cancer, diabetes, musculoskeletal disorders, neurovascular diseases and depression. there are many difficulties in accessing health services: the lack of guidance on the prevention of the most common diseases, the difficulty of booking specialist visits and diagnostic tests, and the often too long waiting lists, all of which discourage elderly patients in particular, who very often live in loneliness. 75.8% of women over 65 live alone. in addition, older women are more at risk of poverty. according to the latest available data, 24.5% of the female population in the union of 27 is at risk of poverty. the risk of poverty is affected by the wage gap - on average, as we know, women earn almost 17% less than men - but also by the occupational choices women are forced to make to reconcile family and working life. all this means that women accumulate lower pension contributions and therefore have lower pensions and fewer resources for therapy and medical care. the aim of this report is to encourage synergy between public institutions at european, national and territorial level to promote measures to enable healthy ageing for all. the objectives are first to ensure access to quality health care for recurrent diseases, invest in information and prevention to enable older people to remain as independent and healthy as possible for as long as possible, and then to carry out ad hoc screening for certain diseases which, if done at the right time, are a powerful tool for prevention. prevention can also be done by following good habits, from proper nutrition to the importance of physical activity, to combating alcohol and tobacco abuse. it is worth remembering that, according to who estimates, the proportion of women smokers in europe will rise from the current 12% to about 20% by 2025. i conclude by saying that we must ensure that the elderly can play an active role in society, avoiding the social exclusion which causes marginalization and depression.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs anna rosbach, who – speaking of antimicrobial resistance – has been contagious with her enthusiasm and energy on this subject which, of course, is extremely important, as many members have underlined. we all know that resistant microbes can spread between humans, animals and the environment and through food, and this highlights the need for a coordinated approach across human and animal sectors. control of antimicrobial resistance will require the joint efforts of all actors at eu level: the member states, healthcare professionals, industry, veterinarians and eu citizens as consumers of antibiotics. resistant microbes do not respect borders. borders are for human beings. therefore, resistance can easily spread from country to country when people and animals travel cross-border or where certain goods are traded. the need for coordinated efforts across borders is of pivotal importance. all the recognised means to combat antimicrobial resistance (amr) are addressed in the 12 concrete actions outlined in the 2011 communication from the commission. we are actively implementing the amr action plan and are making progress. at global level, the commission remains fully engaged in the antimicrobial resistance debate with the who and, importantly, the transatlantic taskforce. the development of new antibiotics has already been encouraged through new research- and innovation-related actions and partnerships. there was a question on funding. this year the commission – together with the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations, through their joint undertaking the innovative medicines initiative, launched a eur 223.7 million programme for this purpose. this was partially funded by the seventh framework programme for research. the commission has also further reinforced research activities in this field by supporting the joint programming initiative with member states, and by making eur 147 million available for antimicrobial resistance research in the last call, again under the seventh framework programme for research. pending the development of new and effective drugs, we should make strenuous efforts to preserve the efficacy of existing antibiotics by reducing their use whenever possible and by carefully monitoring antimicrobial resistance. the report states ‘it is imperative to ensure the prudent use of antimicrobials.’ this includes ensuring respect for the prescription-only use of antibiotics in place across the eu, the avoidance of self-medication by patients and preventing unnecessary consumption of antibiotics. in this last respect, i would point out that antimicrobials in medicated feed can now only be used on the basis of a prescription. the commission plans to propose modernised legislation to cover medicated feed in the near future to curb the risk of the development of anti-microbial resistance arising from residues of antimicrobials in feed and to set common production standards. finally, i can assure honourable members that the commission’s battle against antimicrobial resistance will continue. in 2013, we shall be publishing a roadmap to communicate, in detail, to all stakeholders, ongoing actions and the next steps, as well as an interim report on the progress made so far.
in writing. the phenomenon of antimicrobial resistance is a threat to the development of pharmacological science, as well as a major problem in terms of both human and financial costs. the figures from the commission underline this point: antimicrobial resistance causes an additional 25,000 human deaths per year and costs at least 1.5 billion euros. all caused by overuse of antibiotic drugs that cause antibiotic resistance. the report voted by this parliament stresses the importance of limiting the prophylactic prescription and use of antibiotics, encouraging medical research in the hope that it can produce new generation antimicrobials. improved training for doctors, pharmacists, veterinarians and farmers and better information for the public on the harm caused by the misuse of antimicrobials are also essential.
member of the commission. − madam president, i welcome the report by ms schaake on a digital freedom strategy in eu foreign policy, because it is a very appropriate subject. i was foreign minister in my country for a number of years before i became a commissioner, so i can appreciate the importance of this subject as part of the overall foreign policy of the eu. the report is a timely one. it contributes to the european union’s work on human rights and digital freedom, development, internet governance, trade and security. the european union is committed to promote human rights, in particular using the link – as we saw in the arab spring – between new technologies and human rights as important avenues for promoting democracy. we share parliament’s view that uncensored access to the open internet, mobile phones and ict are important in safeguarding human rights. the internet has provided a forum for the free exercise of human rights and empowered people in their quest for more just societies, as we saw in the revolutions in north africa – despite the serious incidents curbing internet access which we have witnessed recently. the european union will continue to send clear political messages in response to the worrying trend of increased internet censorship. for instance, in the united nations third committee on human rights in new york on 6 december this month, the european union deplored the trend of increased censorship and condemned restriction on the internet. the eu strategic framework for human rights foresees, in its action plan, actions to build on work already conducted, including in the framework of the so-called ‘no disconnect’ strategy, which was created to uphold the eu’s commitment to ensure that the internet can remain a driver of political freedom, democratic development and economic growth. the eu has also adopted sanctions prohibiting the export of these technologies to syria and iran, to prevent authoritarian regimes from using them to crack down on human rights defenders. further internal discussions are taking place in the framework of the revision of the eu’s security export control policy regarding the possibility of extending export controls to certain materials that might be used for internet monitoring and/or telecommunication surveillance in violation of human rights. at the recent meeting of the internet governance forum in baku, the eu – along with members of this parliament – stood united in defending the principle that restrictions on fundamental freedoms of whatever kind and wherever they take place are unacceptable, within the eu’s borders and globally. by the end of april next year, we shall issue specific guidelines for ict/telecommunications companies on the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. they will be based on the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights – the so-called ruggie principles. trade policy deserves special consideration in this regard. our trade agreements are instrumental in the promotion of european values and human rights. the european external action service and the commission services are committed to mainstreaming the protection and promotion of digital freedoms in all the eu’s external actions, while preparing a joint communication on cyber-security. we are working to ensure a common position in the ongoing world conference on international telecommunications. the eu will increase its efforts to engage in international forums such as the un, the council of europe and the osce in promoting an open, secure and safe internet. we welcome the report’s emphasis on the importance of an overall eu strategy for internet governance. the eu should lead by example through the implementation of its policy, and it provides financial support to a large number of projects and to civil society organisations via the european instrument for democracy and human rights. finally, the eu has the potential to play a decisive role in preserving a robust and innovative internet, which will continue to flourish if private sector innovation and civil society drive its growth and development.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, with today's vote we are bringing to fruition a project which europe has been pursuing for over 40 years: the european union will finally be able to have an effective, low-cost and legally secure patent protection system. the system in place today is complex and legally uncertain and in some ways constitutes a veritable tax on innovation. the cost of validating a patent in 13 countries is now around eur 13 000, compared with the us where the cost is around eur 1 800 and is valid throughout the country. in addition, renewal fees are payable in each country and it costs six times more to maintain a patent in europe than in the united states or japan. finally, the lack of a single system for litigation means that companies are forced to initiate legal proceedings simultaneously in all the member states, which are likely to have, and often can have, different outcomes in each member state. so, there's not even a uniform jurisdiction. this situation has created a serious negative impact on the union's competitiveness, as innovation-related activities, which generate human capital, are static and fragmented. in the face of these negative consequences, the new unitary patent system will reduce costs, including translation costs, by between eur 4 000 and eur 6 000, naturally facilitating access to the patent market and providing legal certainty. in line with the main priorities, in my role as rapporteur i supported the idea of encouraging and facilitating access to the patent system for small and mediumsized enterprises. the regulation on the language arrangements includes specific measures to achieve this objective. a system of compensation for the total costs of translation will be available to small and medium-sized enterprises filing patent applications in a language other than the official languages and greater legal protection will be granted to small and medium-sized enterprises in the event of alleged infringement. following the same logic, the regulation on the unitary patent, for which mr rapkay is rapporteur, provides that the level of renewal fees is to be set taking into account the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises. finally, as regards the longstanding dispute over the language regime, i would point out that the transitional regime, which will last for 12 years, will orient the system towards the english language, paving the way for future revisions. let me say something about the compromise reached. it is not necessary to dwell on the absolutely wrong conduct of the european council, which has entered with its feet in the air into a legislative procedure for which this parliament and the council of ministers are responsible. we had two choices: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. for this reason, the compromise gives the proprietor the right to prohibit third parties from infringing the patent throughout the territory of the member states in which it has unitary effect. at the same time, it is ensured that the scope of that right and its limits are uniform in all participating member states. i really believe that today, with the adoption of the package of proposals on the unitary patent, we will be giving the green light to a legally secure, low-cost patent system for small and mediumsized enterprises, which will help to develop innovation and european competitiveness.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. this is a huge step for the european union, as the idea of a single european patent system goes back to the 1970s, when the european union did not have the form we know today. it was already widely accepted that such a system would give a significant boost to the competitiveness of our innovative industry by creating a single patent market. since then, the road has been long and progress has been sporadic at times. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. the legal framework for the establishment of this system will enable simple and cost-effective access to high-quality patents valid throughout the european union. at the same time, it will provide for the predictable and effective enforcement of patent judgments. the introduction of the unitary patent means that the cost of obtaining patent protection throughout the european union is expected to be reduced by 80%, perhaps more. according to reliable estimates, the unitary patent will reduce the average cost per patent from eur 36 000 to eur 4 700. this is a very significant reduction which will allow european patents to be available at competitive prices, comparable to those prevailing in the markets of our main competitors, japan and the usa. it will also make patents more accessible to smes. but high-quality and economically acceptable intellectual property rights must be accompanied by a modern and harmonised judicial system that can guarantee legal certainty and high-quality judicial decisions at reasonable cost. this will significantly improve industry's confidence in the system. the full exploitation of the unitary patent requires a specialised court to ensure the uniform application of the legislation and to guarantee legal certainty and predictability of patent disputes throughout the european union. the commission will therefore be preparing a draft international agreement between the member states in february to establish a single specialised patent court with exclusive jurisdiction over disputes concerning european patents, including those with unitary effect. the european parliament has fully shared our determination to implement a high-quality and affordable patent system, which can particularly benefit small and mediumsized enterprises. i very much appreciate the constructive way in which our two institutions have been able to work together to achieve this objective. i would like to thank in particular mr rapkay, mr baldassarre and mr lehne for their work as rapporteurs of the three supplementary parts of this dossier, which played a crucial role in enabling us to reach an agreement. i am convinced that the package before us today constitutes a solid legal text which reserves a prominent role to the court. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that all 27 countries could sign this package. i am sorry that we have had to proceed with this matter without the participation of all. the enhanced cooperation option is always used as a last resort when all other options have been excluded. in this case the patent is so important to our future competitiveness that we could not afford to wait any longer than we have already done. i hope, however, that the remaining member states will be able to adopt the unitary patent in the near future.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as minister louca has just said, we are almost at the end of a long road. all the successive presidencies that have been at work for the last two years, in particular the cypriot presidency, which has been extremely active, can testify to this long journey, as can you, ladies and gentlemen. on this matter - and i say this because it is the truth - president lehne and your rapporteurs, mr rapkay and mr baldassarre, have shown a great deal of competence and patience and, i would add, a keen and real sense of the general european interest. it is thanks to this collective work, with the european commission, that we can now take this final step, if you will, after a very long - too long - time for companies during which they have been deprived of this instrument of protection at the level of the single market. this debate was already under way in the 1960s, step by step, with successive failures. in 2010, i expressed to you my hope that i would be the last european commissioner to deal with this matter, although i was not the first. in the end, it's probably your support that will get us there. i would like to recall two or three figures in addition to those given by your rapporteurs. in the united states in 2011, americans filed 224,000 patents in just one year! in china, the figure is 172,000 president lehne was talking about china earlier. in our europe, there are 62,000. one reason - but probably not the only one - is the complexity and cost of protecting the single market. we are now, if you will, entering four simultaneous stages for business and the european economy. firstly, this patent is valid in 25 member states. i want to say, as the president has, that the door is open. in any case, there will be no discrimination against italian and spanish companies. the translation will also be available for commercial use in spanish and italian and i hope that, on the basis of the progress we are making together, the italian and spanish governments will be able to join us in making this tool fully operational throughout the single market. anyway, the door is open. i want to say this very sincerely on behalf of the european commission. second, a one-stop shop. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the patent is not used in the same way as the patent. minister louca gave the figures: between a seven-fold and a ten-fold increase in the price, this is a real financial progress in terms of competitiveness for small and mediumsized enterprises and laboratories. thirdly, whatever the latest upheavals in the negotiations, to which rapkay referred, any dispute will be dealt with by a unified and specialised court, which will avoid the multiplication of procedures in several national courts. finally, the dissemination of information in all languages. we have worked from the current language regime of the european patent office but high quality machine translations will be available in all languages, as soon as registration. during the transitional period, before the final switch to machine translations, it will be possible to translate the patent into any of the languages of the european union, including - i repeat - italian or spanish. in this way we will ensure the maximum dissemination of scientific information from patent certificates for the benefit of all inventors in the union. now, that's a breakthrough that makes a real difference, i think. we have reached a compromise. i would have preferred not to have to use enhanced cooperation with you, but the treaty of lisbon allows it. once again, i hope that the last two countries will be able to join the other states and benefit from this progress. i would have preferred that there had not been all the recent ups and downs that led us to this last compromise, as mr baldassare and mr rapkay have said, but i think that, given the political constraints, we have reached the best possible dynamic compromise for european competitiveness, for employment and for business. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i also want to thank you because, by adopting these texts as proposed to you, you will be adding a new stone to the agenda that europeans so badly need at the moment, namely the economy of recovery and growth. we have tabled together in the single market acts i and ii some 55 proposals, all of which are concrete, enabling proposals. many of these have a citizen dimension. i am thinking of the professional card on professional qualifications, the measures we are going to take on transparency of bank charges, social entrepreneurship, simplification of public procurement, electronic signatures, the digital agenda, and the patent which is, without doubt, one of the most symbolic measures. it is now up to us to implement all these proposals because the economy needs them, as do businesses, consumers and citizens who, as in the case of patents, are waiting for concrete proof that we are working together and for the progress of europeans. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are one step away from an important result. this is all the more important when we consider the risk, feared repeatedly in recent months, of failure in the final phase of the commission's proposal. i am glad to say that commissioner barnier has been credited with having brought to fruition a measure which has been under discussion since 1957, as has been mentioned, and with having enabled and helped to resolve some delicate legal questions. the creation of uniform patent protection within the union is of crucial importance for the revival of the european economy, its growth, the development of innovation and the completion of the internal market. we are also very pleased with the parliament's negotiating capacity, which has achieved important results in the informal trilogues, including measures to promote greater integration of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are so important for our production system, into the european patent market, and in particular to support the translation costs for languages other than english, french and german. the linguistic question has been the subject of numerous speculations and manipulations, even in recent days, speculations which tend to confuse the overall and general outcome of the package we are about to approve and which above all conceal the important measures introduced to protect the companies of the countries linguistically not represented by the trilingual system. i think it is important to stress one important legal point in the agreement reached. the european parliament, following the july european council, decided to suspend the vote on the package of proposals and expressed its indignation at the council's intolerable attitude. at the same time parliament took two political decisions: the commission is therefore proposing that the council and the european parliament should not turn the matter into an interinstitutional battle and that a solution be sought in accordance with the treaty. after five months of consultation and discussion, a compromise proposal was reached which accepts the formal requirement of the legal basis, namely provisions providing uniform protection for intellectual property rights. the compromise removes any doubt as to the actual introduction of the european patent system, but it must be remembered that the interference of the european council in the legislative process, as happened last semester, sets a dangerous precedent for the european union's legislative process. hopefully, that won't happen again in the future. i think we have really come to a possible conclusion that meets the four objectives that we set out for ourselves: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. our production system needs an incentive of this nature and so from here will come important propulsive drives for our whole system.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a single patent can certainly be useful. the cost of making more recordings and more translations in the different countries where the file is to be deposited would be drastically reduced. for companies, especially smaller ones, this means saving several thousand euros per patent, which is particularly important in this time of crisis. but if you really wanted to save money, then you had to choose only one official language, which for various reasons could only be english. this arrogant trilingualism has no meaning. it is not clear why french and german should be considered as privileged languages in comparison with the others. the court of justice of the european union itself recently rejected this three-language formula for the epso competitions. i do not think that the european patent can be treated differently. so it's all right to save, but then do it all the way without these absurd franco-german privileges.
the rapporteur. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the speakers. but i would like to quote a saying that my president, mr lehne, often refers to: "the best is the enemy of the good". i think that is the note of all the speeches, even critical ones, which i naturally respect, that have followed. we have a result, a positive result, undeniably positive. of course, we could have done better, but today we have this result. the data is in plain sight: there is an indisputable reduction in costs, substantial and profound, which concerns both the patent stage and the next stage, that of the judicial stage. we will finally have a patent that today is valid in 25 states - i hope in 26 soon and then also in 27 - and we have a trilingual system. mr morganti, i too am convinced that italian is the most beautiful language in the world, the most musical and harmonious, but if in europe 45% of businessmen register in english, 39% in german, 9% in french and 7% in all the other languages and our businessmen, italian businessmen, file in 65% of the cases in english and in 98% of the cases the language of the proceedings is english, it is useless to fight over principles that are not useful to the italian business system. that is why i hope and believe that the results contained in this package will come, albeit with a more complex system, with uniform application in all countries that will join the international convention on the judicial system, and with a transitional period that helps companies to apply and to become more connected with the european patent office, to use its tools that are provided for translations and to have more confidence in this european patent system. i really hope that our country will stop following a line that has no justification and above all is not useful at a time like this, when the business system needs development and innovation and not battles of principle without a purpose that is equal to the battle.
in writing. after 30 years of trying, the european union will have a common patent system, saving european businesses over eur 250 million. until now, to obtain pan-european protection, an investor had to validate the patent in each member state through the european patent office, a body outside the union. this involved, mainly because of the translation of patents, a complicated and expensive system, making the european patent up to 10 times more expensive than the american one and 11 times more expensive than the japanese one. the new system provides for uniform protection throughout the union, with a significant reduction in costs for european businesses. the new european patent will be less expensive and more effective in protecting the inventions of individuals and businesses than the current system. according to recent estimates, when the new system is fully operational, the european patent will cost only 680 euros compared to the average price of a us patent of 1,850 euros. i welcome the success of parliament in introducing specific measures to facilitate access to the european patent for smes, and in particular to ensure strong legal protection and full reimbursement of translation costs.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am the chairman of this committee, whose mandate has been renewed with the consent of this house. i thank all my colleagues and above all i wanted to inform you that from last tuesday until last friday i was in washington, where i had contacts with the heads of the treasury department, the justice department and the fbi. the united states, and not just the european institutions and bodies responsible for combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering, are all paying great attention to this committee and expecting great things from it, and they have all appreciated the enormous work already done by this committee, which has held more than 20 working sessions in just seven months of meetings. i thank my colleagues for their confidence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of macrofinancial assistance of some eur 30 million for the kyrgyz republic. following the internal unrest and civil war that rocked the country in the spring of 2010, bringing the already fragile local economy to its knees, the release of this aid will facilitate economic recovery and foster political and social stability, thus enabling the kyrgyz republic to continue on the path towards full democracy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mr pablo arias echeverría on his report. we are talking about one of the most important aspects of the creation of the european union, namely the internal market. the proposal has the great merit of helping enterprises in the member states to reach markets too far away to be directly served, to compete in a larger market, and to reward efficiency for more effective and sustainable growth. in all this, technology is coming to our aid, reducing costs, overcoming barriers and reducing distances. to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to enable businesses to access the single european market through information technology and to create conditions in which consumers can have complete confidence in both the sellers and the means of payment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the digital revolution has had a considerable impact on our daily lives: the potential for economic growth and earnings, job creation, consumer benefits and business opportunities have multiplied in just a few years. however, the digital single market in the european union has not developed as it could have and the full benefits of the digital economy have not been realised. that is why i voted in favour of the text by my colleague, which aims to encourage the participation of smes in the digital market, to overcome the current fragmentation of the digital market, to strengthen the sense of security and confidence of citizens in the digital single market and thus to aim at sustainable growth, creating new jobs within the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the european union has set itself the objective of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. the completion of the digital single market is a crucial step towards achieving this key objective. the benefits of the digital economy are undeniable, but unfortunately as europe we have not been able to fully grasp its potential. there are still too many legal obstacles to e-commerce, ranging from fragmented national rules, to different vat provisions and difficult access to broadband, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. that is why we have asked and are asking the commission to implement the plan for the digital single market decisively. that is why we voted in favour of this resolution by the rapporteur, mr arias echeverría.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the financing of trade and investment by small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union because i agree with the whole text. micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are diverse in nature and their needs vary according to the specific industry or service sector in which they operate. small and medium-sized enterprises are able to offer a sustainable entrepreneurial programme to improve or consolidate the market and to create jobs, particularly for young people, but they are facing difficulties today more than ever due to the decline in domestic demand due to the economic crisis. i therefore believe that more needs to be done to fully exploit the benefits of the european union's trade and investment policy launched after the lisbon treaty. both trade and foreign direct investment are currently the exclusive competence of the union. it is therefore necessary to place greater emphasis on global action as part of the european union's common commercial policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, smes provide 75% of jobs in the private sector in the union and over the last five years they have contributed to the creation of about 80% of all new jobs. it is therefore surprising that only 25% of smes operate across national borders and that only 13% are active in markets outside the union through exports. there are two main obstacles: the difficulty of obtaining information on foreign markets, trade and investment opportunities abroad and the lack of access to preferential credit for financing cross-border economic activities. i therefore expressed my support for mr zahradil's text, which suggests practical measures to overcome these obstacles and enable european smes to improve their international competitiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report because this is a very difficult time, a time of crisis, and the most affected are small and mediumsized enterprises. it is a very serious problem affecting small and mediumsized enterprises but also employment, development and employment prospects. two are the very important objectives: facilitating access to credit and supporting internationalisation. the success of internationalisation depends above all on improving the quality of information available on foreign markets and on investment opportunities abroad. in addition, all smes would benefit from simplified application procedures for internationalisation. simplification, streamlining and speeding up of expenditure procedures, not only to save time but also to reduce the tax burden. finally, very important in a time of crisis is access to capital. adequate support is essential for small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to engage in export-import activities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote recognises the enormous contribution and role that the new digital technologies have made to economic, social, scientific, cultural and political development in today's modern societies. in this context, there is no doubt that europe must have a strategy for dealing with these new forms, these new technologies, in its external action. to achieve this, it is essential that europe's development and human rights policies include programmes of aid to other countries capable of promoting freedom, especially in non-democratic societies and countries, as well as in countries undergoing post-war or political transitions. it is also crucial that such aid, in the form of infrastructure, be conditional on the establishment and maintenance of uncensored access to the internet or to online information and, more generally, digital freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this regulation, which represents a great achievement after many years of waiting and negotiations. the european market could no longer do without a unitary patent system which would finally overcome the existing system based on the dualism between a national patent and a european patent, which was too expensive, too bureaucratically complex and could not compete on the international scene with the systems of, for example, the united states and japan. for a company that wants to invest in innovation and research - and above all we have small and mediumsized enterprises - and give force to its design ideas, it means a lot to be able to rely on a patent with unitary effect, that is, valid and effective throughout the territory of the european union, even more so if it has to comply with a procedure that is naturally simplified compared to the previous system and above all with lower registration costs. what i hope is that the problems connected with this patent can be solved also in my own country and in spain.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is an important achievement, one that has been awaited since the creation of the internal market itself almost 50 years ago. this will help to boost innovation by respecting copyright within the union and also from an economic point of view, since the unitary patent will allow owners to pay a single annual fee valid for all 25 participating member states and thus save about 70% of the current costs of national patents. i think that on the linguistic question there could have been another kind of compromise, such as the use of a single language. so i also understand the reasons why my country wanted to defend its linguistic identity. i think that at this point all the member states must participate in the protection of the unitary patent, because to remain outside it can only harm the economy and the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, which have always invested in innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as in the case of the two previous acts, i voted in favour of this regulation on the applicable translation arrangements. i strongly support the position expressed by the rapporteur, with whom i congratulate myself, that the need to protect and promote as much as possible the use of english as the sole language, which is in fact dominant over the others in commercial and international relations and also in the academic world, should be emphasized. this would indeed simplify the system we are adopting even further and would certainly give it more strength. i am particularly in favour of specific measures to support small and mediumsized enterprises which in fact have the greatest barriers to the use of patents because of bureaucratic and linguistic obstacles, especially those linked to excessive translation costs. the compensation scheme for reimbursement of translation costs is therefore a necessary choice to support the weakest players on the market but at the same time also the backbone of our european economy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after four years of negotiations we have finally reached agreement on the creation of a single european patent. this is a very positive achievement, as small and medium-sized enterprises will finally be able to access comprehensive patent protection in a simple and economically viable way. commissioner barnier said this morning that the cost will be 7 to 10 times lower. so it's a great opportunity in terms of growth and investment. i would stress this particularly for smes, also because there will be a considerable simplification of legal disputes for patent protection and support for the language regime. i would also like to point out that smes complain most of all about the cost of legal fees, which is the biggest obstacle to patent protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as with the previous regulation on unitary patent protection, i voted in favour of this report, which is the second act of the 'patent package'. the creation of a unified patent court is the logical consequence of a unitary patent system. the advantages which its introduction will bring are undeniable, such as predictability, the quality of decisions, the reduction in costs and litigation before several national courts and the effectiveness of the protection granted by the single act. everything is going in the direction of strengthening our market, research and innovation and, consequently, the competitiveness of our enterprises and our single market. therefore, he certainly deserves our support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour because these years of discussion have not only helped to improve trade and political relations between europe and the two south american countries, but have also greatly improved the conditions of minorities, the opposition, workers and trade unionists, especially in colombia. once again we have seen that only strong international solidarity, avoiding the isolation of the most exposed people and movements on the frontier of freedom, social justice and human rights, can achieve important results both politically and economically. so we are not just seeing an agreement to improve the opportunities of their respective production machinery, but a way of proceeding which once again highlights the european method which combines respect for human rights and trade policies. it is not by chance that the vast majority of colombian public opinion is strongly in favour of this agreement.
in writing. - i did not support mr moreira's report which explicitly calls for the european union to provide financial support to the kyrgyz republic. the country, which has already received support from the international monetary fund to the tune of us$ 106 million, has now formally requested funds directly from the european union. the european commission has therefore decided to grant the sum of eur 30 million. i cannot support this initiative because i believe that, in the face of the economic and financial crisis which is bringing the economies of the member states to their knees, the commission is not in a position to act as a second-tier lender to all third countries. the resources available today should be used to support the needs of the member states. i would like to remind you of the difficulties and discussions which have accompanied the disbursement of the eur 17 million for our venetian territories devastated by the floods.
in writing. - having regard to all the elements which were discussed at the meeting, considering the granting of macrofinancial assistance as one of the cornerstones of international trade and in view of the simplification to be made of the proposal in question, i shall vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. - despite a series of tragic events in the kyrgyz republic, the country has managed to move forward with democratic reforms, which have enabled free parliamentary elections to be held and the first parliamentary democracy in the region to be established. the kyrgyz republic was first hit by the global crisis and then by a violent popular uprising which created a tragic power vacuum from which the region was able to emerge. the kyrgyz republic has responded with a commitment by the authorities to strengthen the democratic orientation. i believe that in this context it is essential to assess carefully the macroeconomic situation and the financing needs of the kyrgyz republic. past political events have affected and continue to affect the social context by causing substantial reconstruction expenditure. i believe that the eu should contribute to the financing of the region in order to supplement its resources, because this contribution would help the democratic stability of the country, which is essential in this context, so that the authorities can prevent any outbreaks of violence that would undermine the efforts made so far. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i support the kovács report on the 'energy efficiency labelling programme for office equipment'. the 2011 eu-us agreement will introduce two separate product registration systems and the principle of mutual recognition will no longer apply. i share the view of my colleague who supported the maintenance in the eu of the system of self-certification by office equipment manufacturers. this procedure, which is simpler and has been in force for years, will avoid imposing additional costs on our smes.
in writing. - the development of activities under the energy star programme presents a number of difficulties, which the rapporteur has not overlooked and on which solutions of prudent compromise have been reached. in order not to put the best in opposition to the good, there was an awareness that the current difficult financial situation is putting pressure not only on production systems but also, and especially in some countries, on local authorities, which are faced with serious problems of budgetary sustainability. it is therefore right to call on contracting authorities to adapt to the criteria of the programme, in view of the obvious benefits for everyone, starting with consumers and businesses. finally, it seems clear to me that the success of the whole programme depends to a large extent on the functioning of the euesb and the way in which the board will be able to involve the parties, collect and summarise their requests, if necessary also proposing further amendments to the regulation.
in writing. − due to the introduction of third party certification in the product registration system in the united states of america, the principle of mutual recognition will no longer be possible. i share the rapporteur's regret on this point, but i think it is preferable to keep the self-certification procedure in the union, as it is simpler and avoids additional costs for manufacturers and, in particular, for smes. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because eu regulation on energy efficiency labelling of office equipment will not only help consumers understand how much electricity the appliance needs, but will also inform them about energy consumption, allowing for more rational use of energy and promoting both energy savings and reduction of air pollution. office equipment, including computers, printers and monitors, consume huge amounts of electricity and, although energy consumption varies greatly between countries and economic sectors, each country should improve the energy efficiency of its electrical and commercial equipment in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. office equipment accounts for a significant share of total electricity consumption in the domestic and especially the tertiary sector. therefore, voluntary labelling by producers would guide consumers in their choice at the time of purchase and would encourage the technological development of products with low consumption. reducing irrational consumption and eliminating energy waste today means not only reducing costs but also contributing to a cleaner environment, with a view to the future and the generations to come.
in writing. - i support the report by mr kovács on the eu programme on energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment. as negotiations with the united states on the renewal of existing bilateral agreements in this field have been concluded, i would like to stress in particular the efforts made by my colleague and parliament to protect the possibility for operators in the sector in the european union to proceed with the self-certification mechanism in the labelling system. the maintenance of the self-certification system allows smes in the sector to avoid additional costs and to be relieved of bureaucratic procedures, which are all the more unnecessary at the moment.
in writing. − consider all necessary ad hoc changes to the energy efficiency of office equipment regulation, which are useful in order to pursue a high level of consumer and environmental protection, as well as to penetrate the market taking due account of the parameters identified by the energy star programme. the long-term vision of the de quo project, which is aimed at the pursuit of energy efficiency objectives by each member state, and above all the particular interest in the ecolabel, a significant mark of the establishment of a framework for the environmentally friendly design of energy-related products, have made my vote favourable.
in writing. − the digital revolution has changed our lives in several ways: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the internet economy has made a considerable impact in recent years: the possibilities for economic growth and earnings, job creation, consumer opportunities, product variety, affordability and opportunities for european businesses have multiplied. in some member states, the internet has contributed 20% to economic growth and 25% to job creation in the last five years alone. however, in my view, the digital single market in the european union has not developed as it could have and the full benefits of the digital economy have not been exploited. the european union has already done a lot to improve the situation of smes, but much remains to be done to reduce red tape, simplify access to financial instruments and improve access for enterprises to european and international markets. this year, which marks the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the single market, it would be appropriate to give our economy the necessary impetus by creating a digital single market capable of generating growth and jobs.
in writing. - i support the echeverria report because i believe that the completion of the digital single market is a fundamental step for europe. the text focuses on smes, which can benefit greatly from entering a genuine digital single market, and stresses the importance of broadband penetration, the right of access and the need for greater attention to people with disabilities. the report proposes some solutions which i share and which will certainly provide new inputs to the development of the digital single market: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. the report deals in an articulate way with some key perspectives in the development of consumption and production systems, which are increasingly oriented towards digital technologies. for italy alone, a recent report puts the turnover of online sales of goods and services at 19 billion in 2011, up 32% from the previous year. the recommendations and indications contained in the report are mandatory steps in the europe 2020 strategy, considering that digital technologies and a truly integrated market would allow for a wide scope for development for smes and thus for our economies, which would be freed from significant logistical and material burdens and could best express their potential in terms of quality and added value. increased use of online transactions also contributes to policies to combat tax evasion and criminal money laundering activities. however, such a commitment requires honest examination and consistent action to overcome remaining barriers, in particular on the alignment of fees and the standardisation of cross-border payments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the digital revolution is an opportunity not to be missed, both because of its economic weight and its implications for productivity and the solution of social problems. the digital single market can improve the quality and competitiveness of our businesses, thereby steering europe towards smart and sustainable growth. businesses are increasingly making significant use of information and communication technologies, improving the quality of the products and services they offer. on the one hand, consumers and businesses need to have their online rights protected in a secure, consistent and transparent way. on the other hand, strengthening the digital single market, especially at this time of crisis and limited resources, is essential to foster growth, jobs and competitiveness. to this end, it is desirable to proceed with the removal of legislative barriers and the harmonisation of certain factors such as the electronic payment system, the sending of invoices, online authentication and consumer rights, which are essential for the simplification and optimisation of the services offered. the digitisation of the healthcare system would, for example, improve the quality of service, with positive consequences for both patients and hospital facilities.
in writing. − the smooth functioning of the digital economy is essential to ensure the smooth functioning of the eu economy. however, it should be taken into account that the free movement of digital services is today seriously hampered by the fragmentation of rules at national level. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr pablo arias echeverría on the completion of the digital single market because i believe that the internet represents a great opportunity for growth and development for the european union's economy. this is a challenge that must be met with determination, which will open up new business opportunities, foster economic growth and create new jobs. i therefore felt it was essential to support the project of completing the digital single market. twenty years after the completion of the single market, the existence of 27 digital markets seems anachronistic and deeply disadvantageous from an economic point of view. this segmentation needs to be overcome and convergence towards a single online market should be encouraged. the reduction of the digital divide, which is not only dividing the countries of the north and those of the south of the world, but also affects the territory of the union, in particular its southern and eastern regions, seems more than ever inevitable. the completion of the online single market should also result in increased deployment of ultra-fast broadband, increased digitalisation of public services and the promotion of computer literacy. i also very much appreciate the rapporteur's attention to illustrating the potential of smes in the growth scenarios envisaged by the completion of the digital single market.
in writing. - given the difficulties faced by the member states in coping with the economic crisis that is gripping us, it is essential to tackle the problem in an innovative and far-sighted way. the majority of enterprises in the 27 member states are smes, which have serious difficulties in overcoming the economic obstacles to traditional sales. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company in difficulty. moreover, technology-intensive smes not only grow, but export twice as much as others, creating twice as many jobs. in view of all that has been said in brief and in the interests of creating a more competitive europe, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − today, at the strasbourg plenary session, we voted on the report by mr pablo arias echeverría, which welcomes the recommendations for policy and practice in the commission's communication 'a coherent framework to strengthen confidence in the digital single market for e-commerce and online services'. the report also aims to provide an in-depth analysis of the following interlinked areas of intervention: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. − i am convinced that the completion of the digital single market is a means of stimulating growth and creating jobs, by promoting new forms of economic activity, which exploit the potential of the latest technological developments. i recognize the need, expressed in the report, to implement appropriate measures to ensure the integration of small and medium-sized enterprises within the digital single market, as well as the call to invest in information and communication infrastructure, the basis for a more competitive and integrated europe. the implementation of the digital single market plan will provide important support to businesses: will help to remove remaining barriers to cross-border transactions, such as fragmented rules and non-uniform vat rates, and to strengthen consumers' sense of security and trust in sellers and payment systems.
in writing. - the challenges facing the european union following the global crisis require us to take account of the social, economic and technological changes that have occurred. the completion of the digital single market as a stimulus for growth and jobs and a guarantee for increased competitiveness in europe is clearly a priority. cooperation is needed to facilitate access to content and the adoption of rights to technological progress through the use of cross-border and pan-european licences. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the digital single market and the implementation of the digital single market strategy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital single market is fully operational and that the union's digital single market is fully integrated into the union's digital single market. i am confident that, through the development of the digital single market, europe will be able to compete on the global market by developing all the elements needed to meet the new challenges it faces.
in writing. - i support the zahradil report on trade and investment finance for smes in the eu: facilitated access to credit for internationalisation support. the text analyses the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, their current situation and possible future developments in their access to the international market.
in writing. - there is no doubt that the current economic crisis has a serious impact on the foreign investments of our enterprises, especially in view of the nature of the sme-based production system in our countries. some aspects of this process can be addressed, as the report suggests. in particular, the rationalization of the networks to encourage the internationalisation of european smes could help to limit the contraction in investment and to provide a boost to those enterprises, including small and medium-sized ones, which are able to expand into foreign markets. this is the case for many companies, for example in italy or france, which with better legal and financial assistance could secure employment in technologically advanced sectors such as fashion, furniture, precision mechanics and high-tech semi-finished products. it is essential, in this respect, that the institutions work towards moderating the tightening of credit to the business system, which is one of the main factors behind the contraction of gdp and the weakening of the entire productive base. i share the concerns expressed in the report and i support the recommendations contained in it, and i vote in favour.
in writing. - whereas the report supports the internationalisation and reduction of red tape for small and mediumsized enterprises, which, especially at this time of crisis, would give them a boost in the community and world economy, and whereas the report calls for the adoption of single assistance services so that enterprises can receive all the useful information in a short time and in their own language; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
in writing. − for too long the european economy has been in a crisis with no end in sight, despite efforts at both european and national level. this situation is particularly significant for smes when entering international markets: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the programme. it is therefore important to increase and encourage the dissemination at european level of 'national best practices', both in the area of access to credit facilities and in relation to better circulation of information on access to non-european markets. only in this way can we increase the competitiveness of smes, helping them to become competitive on international markets.
in writing. - i fully support any legislative action taken by the european institutions to step up support for and initiatives in favour of smes. in particular, i voted in favour of this report on facilitated access to credit in support of internationalisation. smes are the driving force behind the european economy: they represent 99% of businesses in the eu and employ 85% of the sector's workforce. as rapporteur for the european budget, i have worked to build a financial year which takes full account of the reality of the small and mediumsized business sector. i therefore wholeheartedly support these and other texts which are aimed at providing practical support for smes.
in writing. - it is urgent that a network be developed between smes and large european enterprises so that the former can benefit from the latter's skills, export capacity and innovation capacity. it is also necessary to stimulate cooperation between european smes and firms from third countries in order to facilitate market entry and integration into third country markets. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financing of trade and investment by smes in the eu: i am also pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of providing mr zahradil with easy access to credit for his internationalisation support, since i consider that any union initiative aimed at supporting the economic and commercial potential of european small and mediumsized enterprises deserves broad political support. smes account for 99% of european enterprises and create 85% of jobs. the crisis has severely undermined the ability of smes to create wealth, to support the growth of the system and to provide jobs for millions of european citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. the european parliament, by approving mr zahradil's report, confirms once again its commitment to this. the opening up of smes to trade with other member states or even third countries, as well as investment abroad, may be one of the most promising ways out of the present stagnation, if not the most promising. smes will be able to draw on new technologies and know-how and to tap into the demand from emerging countries, thus finding new markets for their products or services.
in writing. - i fully support any initiative that can benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, the true economic heart of europe. the report points out some difficulties and prospects in the international dimension of smes, a reality which is still underdeveloped if we consider that only a quarter of them have foreign trade relations and only 13% operate beyond european borders. it is therefore clear that it is useful and necessary to put in place concrete instruments which can improve this data, opening the way to new outlets and opportunities which have not yet been exploited. more and more precise information, easier access to capital and less red tape are some of the proposals contained in this text, which i hope will not remain on paper but will be made effective by concrete measures. looking beyond our borders can be a solution to overcome our internal difficulties and get our economy back on track. it is certainly not easy, given the historical and traditional local dimension of smes. however, smes have always shown that they can find new initiatives and new resources to stay in the market and the international dimension will be another new challenge to be overcome.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, considering that smes in the union generate 75% of jobs in the private sector and considering that they have contributed to 80% of job creation over the last five years, it is clear that they are particularly important in exporting, importing and investing beyond the borders of the eu's single market. the lack of internationalisation of smes is mainly due to the lack of information they obtain about foreign markets. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is on these very points that the motion for a resolution is based and that is why i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mr jan zahradil on his work. in adopting this report, the european parliament, in the light of the commission communication to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions entitled 'a global europe: competing in the world - a contribution to the european union's strategy for growth and jobs', wanted to demonstrate its attention to small and medium-sized enterprises involved in exporting, importing and investing beyond the borders of the eu's single market. i also believe that it will be essential to put into effect the recommendations made in this report as soon as possible. the aim will be to improve the quality of information available to smes and micro-enterprises in relation to the financing opportunities and commercial and financial instruments available both at national and community level. i am sure that through this kind of assistance, smes and micro-enterprises will be able to overcome the trade barriers that prevent eu companies from accessing third country markets.
in writing. - the zahradil report is a great help to our small and mediumsized enterprises which want to be active outside the community market. smes are the backbone of our economy. they represent 99% of european enterprises, of which 92% are micro-enterprises, and they provide 75% of private sector jobs. therefore, helping them to internationalise - by removing the remaining barriers - will help our whole economy and help us achieve the eu2020 objectives. smes have been hit hard by the current economic crisis and are struggling to access markets outside the european union, with only 25% of them operating across national borders. in approving this report we will try to solve the problems that are causing this situation by ensuring that smes have access to the information they need and easy access to capital to carry out internationalisation activities. in this way we will help smes to remain competitive on the market by providing them with a uniform legislative framework complementary to national strategies.
in writing. − looking at the economic scenario created by the global crisis, important differences between countries are apparent, due to the level of maturity of their economic systems. the competitiveness of smes in the european context needs to be encouraged in order to make them fit to face the challenges of the market. this depends, first of all, on the internationalisation of trade and production. the steering wheel of economic growth is international openness, so that the valuable contribution that smes can make is given due consideration. this must be done by removing the obstacles to the growth of smaller firms. the eu will have to respond to these needs by identifying a strategy that takes account of the lack of financial resources, the costs of information collection and the reorganisation of business functions. in my view, there is an urgent need to improve the quality of information available to smes on the financing opportunities and commercial and financial instruments available both at national and eu level. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i support the schaake report, which examines the importance of the internet and new information and communication technologies and how they play a key role for european and global citizens. the text supports the draft of the first digital freedom strategy of the european union in its external actions.
in writing. the report by the honourable member deals with a central issue of our time, that of civil liberties and human rights in the digital age. it is good that these issues are being addressed, because, as the recurrent agreements between global ict players and governments such as the people's republic of china show, there is a high risk of being confronted with established facts and practices that challenge the fundamental principles of our system. it is therefore important to promote the meeting of industry with democratic institutions and to engage with civil society, thus developing a digital culture in harmony with european values. the european institutions have direct legal instruments, without calling into question the categories of soft power, to guarantee the free development of digital communications as an expression of civil rights and individual and business freedoms, protecting individuals and society from repressive conditions imposed by individual governments or organizations of various kinds. in this connection, within the broad framework of the report, i would like to emphasize the points made in paragraphs 44, 52, 53, 61 and 66, which i support by voting in favour of the report.
in writing. − the internet is increasingly a key tool in relational processes, in the eu as in the rest of the world. in this sense, the right solutions must be found to ensure, at the same time, a proper governance of the instrument and adequate digital freedom. as has been pointed out on several occasions, this instrument, which involves various areas of personal life, has both negative and positive aspects. it is our task as national, local and european legislators to ensure that this reality can be regulated taking into account both its worst consequences, which clearly need to be reduced to a minimum, and the importance that the medium has today, especially as a communication and reporting tool capable of facilitating decision-making, operational and commercial processes between european and non-european citizens.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree that high standards of digital freedom in the eu need to be promoted, in particular by codifying the principle of net neutrality through appropriate legislation, in order to strengthen the union's credibility in terms of promoting and defending digital freedoms in the world. the synergy of the eu's trade, foreign and security policies and the alignment of its values and interests are indispensable if the union is to fully unleash its economic power and act as a global player in the defence of digital freedoms.
in writing. − considering that the internet plays a fundamental role in relations between states and between citizens all over the world and considering also its indispensable nature within the economic system, it is essential that the union fine-tune its instruments in order to manage the new technologies in external relations. the new technologies also challenge the way governments carry out their core tasks, which are mainly concerned with security, trade, exports, development and the protection of fundamental rights. our digital freedoms are essential rights and are indispensable to traditional human rights such as freedom of expression and assembly and also to ensure transparency and accountability in public life. in the light of the foregoing, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european union, in recognising the role that new technologies are playing, has identified the issue of digital security and freedom as one of its priorities. focus on developing a detailed cyber and digital security strategy is needed. i believe that it is essential to develop new forms of cooperation to make the eu's efforts on human rights and internet governance more effective. i urge serious reflection on the various forms of censorship in countries such as china and iran, in order to understand the urgency of action aimed at supporting the protection of human rights that allows circumvention of censorship and improving online security. europe must also put in place effective tools to implement export restrictions and trade sanctions on invasive control instruments. safeguarding digital freedoms affects the eu's credibility at the global level. for these reasons, it is essential to promote structured collaboration between politicians, business and civil society to ensure that new technologies, while adhering to eu values, can develop for the benefit of all. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the internet and new technologies play a major role in the lives of european citizens and the world at large. in fact, technologies have changed and are changing societies, the functioning of our democracies, economies, companies, the media and development strategies. in particular, the text voted today underlines that only through a synergy between trade, security and foreign policies and an alignment of our values and interests will the european union be able to achieve the balance that will ensure good internet governance and an open and inclusive digital freedom strategy.
in writing. - i support the moreira report on the proposal for a regulation on transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries. according to article 207 tfeu, the european union institutions have exclusive competence in this area. the purpose of the text is to provide a high degree of legal certainty as regards the transitional provisions on bilateral agreements already concluded between member states and third countries.
in writing. − the report refers to a key step in the process of implementing the tfeu in relation to our economies, private enterprise and the presence, more generally, of european interests and investors in third countries. the council's position at first reading and the caveats set out in the attached joint declaration are to be approved. as the legal elements contained in the commission's proposal make it possible to guide an orderly transition, with broad guarantees as regards the conditions under which investors operate and precise procedural provisions to bring the many existing bilateral investment agreements into line with the provisions of the tfeu, i intend to vote in favour.
in writing. - i supported the report on 'transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries' because it is necessary to stress the need for a well-defined transitional period, since without a time limit the regulation would allow parallel and potentially incompatible investments to take place, thus increasing legal uncertainty. while a fairly long transitional period is envisaged, an indefinite dualism in the european union's investment policy would be unacceptable. through an authorisation process, bilateral investment agreements concluded by member states should be maintained in force and, under certain conditions, member states should be allowed to renegotiate agreements, complete those in the process of adoption and enter into negotiations to conclude new agreements. in the event of renegotiation of existing bilateral investment agreements or negotiation of new agreements, an obligation for member states to provide for a dispute settlement mechanism and to ensure the involvement of the commission in the procedures should be included.
in writing. - having regard to the information received at the meeting, the importance of the subject under discussion and the amendments to be made to the special regulation on transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries, i shall vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the text voted today concludes a difficult series of negotiations between parliament and the council to define the new framework for the transition from member states' to union competence in investment protection. the text adopted aims to protect all existing agreements which may henceforth be supplemented by agreements negotiated at eu level.
in writing. - georgia has always been a country far away and on the border, but close to europe in its history and institutions. given the difficult geopolitical context of recent years and the consequences of the well-known armed conflict, the stability of this country, but also public opinion, was waiting for a response from europe. i voted in favour of this resolution, although i think that more could have been done, because in essence i think that the result achieved must be considered positive. i hope that this resolution will be a clear sign of our closeness and support for georgia, but above all that it will be a further step towards signing the association agreement with the eu, which i believe is the only way to strengthen eu-georgia relations.
in writing. - i vote against the moreira report on macrofinancial assistance to georgia. the commission, while noting that the georgian economy is recovering, is determined to grant additional economic aid of eur 46 million to georgia. i do not agree with this decision because i think it is an instrument granted to a third country which is not necessary and above all unfair to european areas which are experiencing situations of severe economic difficulties and to which the commission does not seem to pay the same attention.
in writing. - having regard to all the elements which were discussed at the meeting and considering the likelihood of further macrofinancial assistance to georgia in respect of compliance with one of the pillars of international trade, i shall vote in favour of this.
in writing. − deepening the union's engagement in view of the impact of past events on georgia's stability must be a priority. i believe that further concrete support is a necessary step in supporting the process of reforms which are being undertaken and which are conducive to the improvement of democracy and the market. under the present circumstances, macro-financial assistance is the indispensable response to the process of state formation and territorial stability. i believe that we should act in a way that is consistent with the fundamental objectives of the union's external action by ensuring, through the provision of assistance, the implementation of effective instruments to combat fraud and corruption. i hope that europe will be able to provide added value through its action and not merely supplement other aid measures, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − with the intensification of maritime traffic and the resulting pollution, the establishment of a european maritime safety agency (emsa) with increasing powers became necessary. it is the common view of the member states that the agency is an effective and well-managed organisation which makes considerable savings as it operates at european level and allows economies of scale to be generated. the enlargement of powers which will result from this report is therefore a coherent and mandatory step. the amendments will in particular enable the agency to prevent and respond to environmental disasters such as oil spills, using the 'cleanseanet' information system, to work towards improving coordination between national authorities, enhancing prevention and promoting best practice, and speeding up the response to any disasters. i am very pleased with the work that has been done and therefore i could not but give my full support to the report and the work done by my colleague.
in writing. - i do not support the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 which established the european maritime safety agency. the proposal calls for the promotion of a european maritime area without barriers. however, since maritime transport is still considered an international route, i believe it is essential that it remains subject to controls in each port.
in writing. − the agency has tools and data, including satellite sources, which can be used by member states to monitor illicit maritime activities. it is a good thing for parliament that the agency will also help to combat maritime piracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency. through its monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of relevant eu legislation, the agency contributes to ensuring maritime safety and preventing marine pollution from ships. the amendment to emsa's regulations will allow the agency to expand its powers to prevent and respond to environmental disasters, improve coordination between national authorities, promote best practice, combat maritime piracy and improve the training of maritime personnel. i am convinced that the amendment of the regulation will make a significant contribution to the improvement of the activities of the member states in the maritime sector.
in writing. − considering that the maritime safety agency (emsa) was established to prevent marine pollution caused by ships, including by monitoring and evaluating the implementation of relevant eu legislation, and considering the strong advisory role it is called upon to play, the agency is considered to be an effective and well-managed organisation that allows member states to make considerable savings as it operates at european level and allows economies of scale to be generated. the allocation of new competences to emsa would reduce the cost to taxpayers and generate added value. in the light of all that has been said, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i am against the promotion of a european maritime area without barriers because too many illegal or unmarked goods from third countries arrive in our ports. the only country in europe that actually checks and denounces counterfeit goods is italy, with 40% of the total sanctions imposed at community level. this means that in the large european ports there are already very few controls, let alone a liberalization of transit between european countries. since the proposal is at second reading and there is no final vote, an amendment was tabled by the efd group to reject the proposal. so my vote in favour of the rejection amendment to the proposal means that i am against it.
in writing. − given the importance of the european maritime safety agency, i believe it is important to work towards implementing emsa's powers and making oil pollution monitoring tools more efficient. through the revision of the current regulation, emsa will make its expertise available in the fight against piracy and the surveillance of illicit maritime activities. i also believe that we cannot wait any longer for the removal of barriers to shipping. the completion of the necessary formalities during an international sea journey slows down the transport of goods with serious effects on competition. in this sense, the revision of the regulation will also make it possible to promote a european maritime area without barriers. in view of the advantages mentioned above, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. the amendment of the regulation of the european maritime safety agency will allow the agency to have its powers to prevent and deal with environmental disasters extended and to also, at the explicit request of parliament, deal with the fight against maritime piracy. emsa will also play a greater role in improving the training of seafarers. on governance, the amended text provides for multiannual planning of the agency's strategy and staff policies, as well as an independent external evaluation to be carried out at least every five years.
in writing. - the achievement of the single european patent today is a major milestone. the adoption of the package of rules on the creation of unitary patent protection is a step forward in the simplification of bureaucratic procedures for large, medium and small enterprises. as is known, italy and spain opposed the proposal during the negotiations, as it was decided to approve the new unitary patent protection allowing the filing and transposition of the documentation in only three eu languages (english, french and german). a different and more thoughtful assessment of this question would probably have been more appropriate, especially since our companies are already drafting patent applications in english, but this stumbling block does not detract from the validity of the action taken by parliament and the scope of this innovation in the industrial sector.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. jurisdiction for european patents with unitary effect should be established and governed by an instrument establishing a single system for the settlement of patent disputes for european patents and for european patents with unitary effect.
in writing. - having regard to the importance of the subject in question and the extensive amendment work on the proposal for a regulation, following the careful evaluation of the amendments, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. − in the eu, patent protection is currently provided by national patents issued by the member states or by european patents issued by the european patent office (epo), under the european patent convention (epc). i think that an analysis of the current procedure can only reveal the complexity of the patent system in force, an onerous system with an unnecessarily complicated machine translation system. i believe that, starting with the agreement on the language regime, in order to make the patent system cheap, simplified and legally secure and considering the urgency of an eu patent agreement valid throughout its territory, the costs could be considerably reduced. the difficulty we have encountered so far has been political, since we have not reached agreement on the language arrangements to be adopted. i believe that by using translation into the language which is the language of the trade relations, namely english, italy would avoid certain disadvantages in terms of distortion of competition and the competitiveness of undertakings, to the advantage of countries whose official language coincides with one of the three languages on which the proposed language scheme would be based. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the agreement reached after years of negotiations by the european patent institutions leads to the creation of a 'single european patent', i.e. a unitary patent title which can be issued, amended or revoked with the same effect in all participating member states. the new unitary patent will be based on the system of the current european patent, which uses the same procedural stage of filing, leaving the choice between unitary patent and european patent at the time of grant. this also applies to the language arrangements, which take over the trilingual arrangements (english, french and german) of the european patent office (epo). this system will lead to significant savings for businesses, especially in terms of registration and language arrangements.
in writing. - the european patent currently costs 13 times more than the american and 11 times more than the japanese patent. it is time, after almost half a century since the creation of the common economic market, for the european union to have a single community patent. for too long a system has been in place which, because of the different national laws, has seriously hindered small and mediumsized enterprises in the transition from the national market to the european one, not to mention the deleterious effects of having to go through several national courts in the event of litigation. the new proposal for a regulation, which has been simplified and has brought down costs, particularly translation costs, represents a step forward in the creation of a common economic market and provides practical help for european businesses in a time of economic difficulties.
in writing. - given the difficulty of reaching agreement on the creation of a community patent and the considerable costs incurred in the cost of validation and maintenance of the patent, it is essential to find a tool which will mitigate some of the problems listed above. it is legitimate to call for a uniform legal system leading to the harmonization of the instrument in question. the rapporteur proposes to amend the text to this end so that this regulation will only enter into force when the agreement on the judicial system has been ratified by at least nine member states, including the three states with the highest number of patent applications. the translation by the european patent office is also necessary, since it plays a key role. in view of the foregoing, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which will finally make it possible to achieve the unitary patent system, a project which we have been pursuing for 40 years and which is a really important step towards completing the single market. i believe that it is no longer possible to postpone the adoption of measures to improve the level of protection of intellectual property. today, in europe, it costs about € 13,000 to validate a patent in 13 countries, plus renewal fees for each country. in addition, to resolve disputes, legal proceedings must be initiated in each individual state, taking into account the possibility of obtaining different outcomes from state to state. the compromise we have reached, after five months of consultation, will lead to lower patent validation costs and bureaucratic burdens and ensure uniform legal interpretation within the european union. another aspect which i think is positive is the increased legal protection for small and mediumsized enterprises and the introduction of a transitional phase, lasting 12 years, which will gradually move the system towards a uniform language regime. i believe that this report can help to stimulate innovative discoveries and increase our global competitiveness.
in writing. - we must urgently protect intellectual property in the internal market, which i believe is essential for the development of innovation and creativity in europe. i think it is a priority to look first at smes. the latter are particularly affected by counterfeiting and the spread of pirated products. the limited financial resources available to them often do not allow them to bear the high legal costs. in order to meet the above needs, action carried out exclusively within a member state will not be sufficient. in order to be effective, harmonisation must be based on the national provisions which appear to be most appropriate to the needs of the injured party, while taking account of the legitimate interests of the defendant. this will ensure that intellectual property rights are respected in an equivalent and effective manner throughout the community. it is our duty to ensure that companies, research centres and inventors have easy access to protection for their new inventions. this will save on their costs and allow us to direct these resources to new investment in innovation, improving our competitiveness in emerging markets where, unlike in europe, the number of new patents is constantly growing.
in writing. - i voted in favour, recognising the importance for businesses of creating a single court system for patent disputes, which would ensure the predictability and quality of decisions, reduce the enormous costs of litigation before several national courts and give effect to the protections recognised by the single european act. the texts adopted by parliament are moving in this direction and can therefore be considered a very positive achievement for both italian and european industry. in particular, the new system will be simpler and more easily accessible to smes, and above all less costly, on the one hand because of the objective simplification of the procedure and on the other hand because of the lower translation costs.
in writing. − ipr issues and patent litigation are crucial to achieving the objectives of the european agenda, also in view of the specific vocation for added value, technology and creativity of a large number of european enterprises. the new court we are considering could, if it operates effectively, make an extraordinary contribution to the integration of production systems and to the competitiveness of our enterprises. i therefore express my strong support for this report, with particular praise for the rigour and the brevity with which the rapporteur has attempted to deal with the issues of regulatory alignment, the case law and the conflict of interests, for which, however, it would be appropriate to identify a specific declaration which would allow the reasons for exclusion from the new judiciary to be identified precisely.
in writing. - given the difficulty of reaching agreement on the creation of a community patent and the considerable costs incurred in the cost of validation and maintenance of the patent, it is essential to find a tool which will mitigate some of the problems listed above.
in writing. - the numerous bureaucratic procedures at the registries of the various member states, due to the absence of a harmonised framework, make the current patent system particularly costly and complex for companies, especially smes, and consequently lead to a reduction in investment in research and development. harmonisation at community level of the laws of the member states on the enforcement of intellectual property rights would meet the need, as has been repeatedly expressed by companies, for effective enforcement of intellectual property rights. with specific regard to the resolution of patent disputes, through the establishment of the unified patent court, i believe that high levels of efficiency and quality can be achieved. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − an efficient patent system in europe can help to achieve growth through innovation. european companies in particular - especially smes - need such tools to cope with the economic crisis and remain competitive on a global scale. i therefore voted in favour of mr lehne's report, which represents parliament's contribution to the intergovernmental treaty to create a unified judicial system for disputes concerning the european patent with unitary effect. the report endorses the approach taken by the member states and stresses the importance of the parallel entry into force of the two regulations and the intergovernmental treaty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative package on the european patent, as reaching agreement on this was necessary to solve the problems of registration and management costs between member states. in the current market, the diversification of administrative requirements required implies a very complex patent management within the eu; in addition, limited transparency and high costs to obtain protection at european level are factors that severely harm smes. as a result, a market which should be one is fragmented in terms of patent protection and access, thus hindering innovation, growth and the competitiveness of european businesses. to deal with this situation, the unitary patent system will lead to savings for businesses and simplification of processes, as well as substantial cost reductions. in confirming the importance of reaching this agreement on a subject which has been under discussion for many years, i would like to stress that certain points should be improved, particularly as regards the linguistic issue. i believe it is essential to safeguard linguistic diversity, which is a basic value of the eu, and i reiterate that italian should not be discriminated against but recognised as a european language with a long history and rich traditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the three reports on the single european patent. this new scheme will cut costs by up to 80%; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. given the considerable proportion of patents registered in italy, i consider it very serious that there is no agreement on the language regime and that the three languages have been imposed. in addition, there are doubts about the use of the enhanced cooperation procedure for this type of matter, on which an italian appeal to the court of justice is pending. the failure to reach agreement in the council was unfortunately followed by the impossibility of allocating the seat of the court of first instance to milan, the centre of italy's patent production, whose court already has a specific section on patents. the result was a compromise on the location of the court which once again satisfied the appetites of the franco-german axis, producing unnecessary administrative costs. nevertheless, also in view of the fact that about 90% of our companies register in english, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of the package, in the hope that, once the ecj's ruling is acquired, italy will be able to join the european patent.
in writing. the european parliament adopted the european patent package today. inventors in the eu will finally be able to obtain a unitary patent at lower costs. after more than 30 years of discussions, the new regime will cut the cost of an eu patent by up to 80%, making it competitive with the us and japan. this has resulted in cost reductions for small and mediumsized enterprises and the new system has been designed to meet their needs. as everyone knows, italy, along with spain, is not participating in the new rules because of the lack of agreement on the language regime. a battle that was certainly fair but that probably lost sight of the goal. in fact, she missed the opportunity to team up and bring home the final result. sometimes the policy of categorical no does not pay. it would have been better to have sought to win consensus within the council and to have allied ourselves with parliament. the result would have been the same, but perhaps the single court would have been italy.
in writing. - i was against it because i think it is unacceptable that patents can be filed in three languages - english, french and german - instead of in all the languages recognised by the eu or, as a more effective and logical solution, in english alone. this is why italy, spain and other countries opposed it, and the european court itself raised objections. negotiations in the council have led to an agreement between the countries, with spain being the only country not to be included, providing for facilities and subsidies for smes to cover translation costs. the text also voted to give european patent powers to an international court instead of the court of justice, with increased costs for eu citizens. for these reasons i have abstained on all three measures.
in writing. - i support the leichtfried report on the application of a bilateral safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism to the banana market, following the trade agreement between the european union and central america. the provision of these market-safeguarding instruments is essential not only for the legitimate protection of the interests of banana producers in the member states but above all for the protection of producers of other types of fruit who may have to compete with any adverse effects which the trade agreement may cause.
in writing. - appropriate safeguard measures must be adopted to avoid serious damage to the banana crops in the union, a sector which has a very significant impact on the overall agricultural production of many of the outermost regions. the limited diversification potential of these regions, as a result of their natural characteristics, makes banana production a sensitive sector. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − following the 2011 eu-central america association agreement, a bilateral safeguard clause was signed which, in addition to providing for the possibility of reinstating the most-favoured-nation (mfn) customs duty rate when import quantities increase and under conditions that cause serious injury to union producers producing similar or competing products, also provides for a stabilisation mechanism for bananas. in the latter case, preferential customs duties may be suspended if a certain annual import volume is reached. the operation of these measures within the eu will have to be ensured through the regulation under consideration, the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas. i believe that this is essential in order to ensure that the interests of industry, civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations and trade unions are protected and to prevent any damage to the sectors concerned. in the light of the foregoing, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr salafranca which accompanies parliament's approval procedure for the association agreement between the european union and central america. the report, which was generally positive, included consideration of the need for the agreement to include a human rights clause which would oblige the signatories to verify and monitor human rights. the report also stresses that the agreement will result in substantial savings linked to the gradual reduction or elimination of customs duties and the promotion of trade and investment.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report and i am confident that this first experiment in bi-regional association, following the lisbon treaty, will soon bring important results, also in relation to the significant presence of eu companies in central america, particularly in the field of civil engineering. i would stress, in the body of recommendations, the value of those relating to the close involvement of parliaments, including through the establishment of standing committees, as a safeguard for the obviously delicate need for legitimacy and democratic control over developments in the application of the agreement. the involvement of the elected bodies, and therefore of the minorities, is also fundamental in the verification of compliance with the human rights clause and, more generally, in the monitoring and search for solutions to the persistent and serious problems of the region, well summarised by the rapporteur. i have no doubt that the agreement will have positive effects in terms of developing the value of trade, creating widespread interests and the consequent demand for stability, legal certainty and systems aligned with the european acquis.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree that the creation of a framework to strengthen legal certainty will have positive effects for both sides, encouraging an increase in trade and investment flows and sectoral and geographical diversification. moreover, the most significant effect for the union will be the savings resulting from the phased reduction or elimination of customs duties and the promotion of trade and investment in a context of stability and mutual trust.
in writing. the european union and the central american countries (costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama) have signed an association agreement based on three pillars: the european union is a major player in the world economy. i believe that this association agreement will contribute positively to increasing the levels of integration between the two regions involved, providing significant business opportunities for both parties. in this respect, i believe that it is an instrument capable of boosting investment and liberalizing trade in goods and services between the two players. in addition to economic integration, i consider this agreement to be an instrument capable of creating the necessary support to encourage the improvement of social cohesion and consolidate social stability in a reality characterized by strong asymmetries due to high levels of poverty and social inequality. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament, by voting today, approved by a large majority an agreement to build an association between the european union and central america after six years of negotiations, making a decisive contribution to the integration of central america and to strengthening the dialogue between the two regions. this agreement, for which i voted in favour, seeks to create a suitable framework to provide social integration, cohesion and sustainable development, which are the key elements for achieving economic consolidation, growth and social and democratic stability.
in writing. - i support the lange report on the application of a bilateral safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism to the banana market following the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. the provision of these market-safeguarding instruments is essential not only for the legitimate protection of the interests of banana producers in the member states but above all for the protection of producers of other types of fruit who may have to compete with any adverse effects which the trade agreement may cause.
in writing. − the exceptional challenges faced in colombia and peru in terms of human, social, labour and environmental rights in relation to products exported from these two countries require close dialogue between the commission and eu civil society organisations. this deal goes exactly in that direction. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i believe that this agreement is an opportunity to increase welfare and consolidate growth in colombia and peru. it is also important to take into account that both colombia and peru have made major efforts to improve their human rights record in the past years. there is still substantial work to be done in this field but this agreement foresees an active role for civil society, especially as regards the monitoring of implementation of human rights and sustainable development provisions. last june, in a resolution that we adopted in this parliament, we requested a road map for the improvement of human and labour rights. both governments answered us positively, showing their commitment to these values. for this reason i value the consent to the eu-colombia/peru fta as a major step in the right direction.
in writing. - i am voting against the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, which is the subject of the david report. the agreement will mainly benefit spain's trade needs, while italian companies operating in the textile and agricultural sectors could suffer non-compensatory negative repercussions from an adequate degree of penetration of our products in the market of the two third countries.
in writing. − the agreement will give eu businesses access to relatively small but growing markets. the strengthening of trade and investment rules can certainly lead to an increase in investment by the european union: that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted against this trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. since trade policy has become a matter for the exclusive competence of the european community, there has been far more damage than benefit, the consequences of which we shall unfortunately see in the coming months. we are also concerned about the disadvantages rather than the possible gains, especially as regards possible further damage to the agricultural and textile sectors. the only european companies which may find this agreement useful are those in spain, as they are already well established in those markets and have deep historical and commercial links with those areas. it is true that for once the countries of northern europe are not the beneficiaries of these trade agreements, but one thing is certain, namely that we are always losing out anyway, never being able to defend and protect our production, our economy and our work.
in writing. the ratification of the agreement will remove customs and technical barriers to trade and enable trade to begin immediately. the resulting market liberalization will bring benefits in terms of an expected growth boost of 1.3% for colombia and 0.7% for peru. the elimination of duties will enable peru and colombia, by protecting the most vulnerable sectors, to become protagonists in international competition. i believe that it is essential to break down the barriers to liberalization of the markets for services and public procurement. the agreement will also improve access to public procurement, services and investment markets and establish common disciplines on intellectual property rights, transparency and competition. at the same time, by opening its market to exporters from peru and colombia, the eu will contribute to growth and employment in both countries. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the population of the european union is facing a progressive ageing due to low birth rates and increasing life expectancy. this dimension is increasingly being integrated into european policies, as demonstrated by the european year 2012 dedicated to the theme 'active ageing and solidarity between generations'. in this context, i believe that the aim should be to promote healthy ageing for all citizens through access to quality health care and through preventive measures that enable older people to remain as independent as possible. therefore, it is important to promote health throughout the life course. prevention and information are essential elements of a strategy which must involve all policy makers and, in particular, industry associations, national and european institutions, information bodies and local administrations. i believe that, even after the european year of active ageing, the community institutions must work with national and local partners to disseminate to the general public prevention strategies aimed at promoting virtuous behaviour to accompany healthy and active ageing.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs roberta angelilli on the prevention of age-related diseases in women. today, despite the longer life expectancy of women, they have a higher incidence of debilitating diseases. the aim of this text is to propose solutions to promote healthy ageing and the greatest possible autonomy. the two ways forward, both at national and european level, are prevention and information. only with a precise level of information, which takes account of the difficulties in accessing health services and the complexity of these systems, will it be possible to put patients in a position to make the most of the possibilities available.
in writing. - i thank the honourable member and congratulate her on her valuable work in summarizing the problem and identifying a framework of interventions contained in this report, which i wholeheartedly approve. we are moving beyond the perimeter of gender policies into the treacherous territory of a real social emergency, not yet fully recognized, given the impact of the economic crisis on the social and demographic structures of our countries. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. the combined effects of some processes affecting women in particular (high life expectancy, limited adaptation of welfare and health systems to developments in epidemiology, declining female employment rates) risk irreversibly upsetting the precarious balances of family life and working life, particularly in certain social segments and urban areas, in already generally impoverished societies. the report therefore welcomes the recommendations of the report, particularly those that are immediately applicable, such as the need to pay attention to the phenomenology and treatment (including from the point of view of welfare and social inclusion) of patients at risk, i.e. those suffering from cardiovascular diseases, alzheimer's or endocrine diseases that particularly affect women.
in writing. - i welcome the report by mrs roberta angelilli on the prevention of age-related diseases in women. unfortunately, women are now more prone to debilitating diseases, although their life expectancy has increased. the text provides a comprehensive list of solutions to promote healthy ageing and the greatest possible autonomy. i believe that two factors are essential, prevention and information, as guidelines to follow. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's health policy.
in writing. − despite increased life expectancy, age-related diseases affect women significantly. the report by mrs angelilli, for which i voted in favour, has the merit of drawing attention to the importance of information and prevention in order to combat and solve the problem. only through a strategy which understands the causes of this situation, which involves the various institutional levels - national and european - and which provides for a thorough and thorough prevention plan, is it possible for older women to be spared from diseases which may affect their independence or, in any case, their quality of life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is crucial, on the occasion of the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations in 2012, that the european parliament speaks out on age-related diseases in women by insisting on greater prevention and information. i also believe it is important to promote healthy ageing of women through access to quality health care and through the development of prevention and information measures that enable older women to remain independent. one disease that particularly affects older women is multiple sclerosis. it is therefore important to encourage closer scientific collaboration and comparative research within the european union under the horizon 2020 initiative. finally, i am convinced that there is a need to make greater use of the modern technologies available and to further develop telemedicine in the european union, in particular to improve access to medical care in remote areas.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to build and promote a european union which is more attentive to the needs and interests of older women and men, by introducing a gender perspective into all awareness-raising and information initiatives and policies, in order to ensure active and healthy ageing for all.
in writing. − to lead an independent and equal life, older women require adequate support both in terms of health care and at the domestic level. the member states are therefore invited to promote greater involvement and active participation of older women in social life and the importance of cultural and educational provision for the elderly is stressed. prevention and information are essential elements of a strategy which must involve the associations of the sector, the national and european institutions, the information bodies and the local administrations. the aim is to promote healthy ageing for all through access to quality healthcare and through preventive measures that enable older people to remain as independent as possible. i am in favour of the text of the report because it aims to give a general picture of the situation, proposing a series of actions to be taken at both national and european level.
in writing. − in the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, it is important that the european parliament put measures in place to enable healthy ageing, so that older people can continue to play an active role in society. given that more than 65 million people in the european union are over 60 years old and that the majority are women, targeted interventions in favour of women's health are necessary. women enjoy a longer life, but unfortunately their quality of life deteriorates: they are more likely to suffer from age-related diseases, and they are often living alone and experiencing economic problems. by adopting this report, we are committed to promoting research and prevention of health problems and to creating the conditions for making healthy choices: many diseases could be prevented by adopting good habits, that is, a healthy lifestyle combined with physical activity, and all the possibilities that medicine offers. we will also promote the adoption of initiatives by member states to facilitate access to medical and health services.
in writing. − the prevention of diseases linked to women's ageing is one of the projects of the 2012 european year for active ageing. this is a subject which is particularly close to my heart and that is why i believe it is essential to commit ourselves to providing all the necessary tools to make women increasingly aware of the risk factors for their health, with particular regard to age-related diseases. in view of the potential of women, who are always ready to take on the challenge and play a role in solidarity and social cohesion, the pitfalls of disease cannot be ignored. i would particularly like to stress the higher percentage of women who are sick and living in conditions of hardship or extreme poverty. in this respect, we should remove a number of obstacles that make health systems inaccessible, provide good information and, above all, good prevention to prevent the most common diseases, which are cancer, cardiovascular diseases, osteoporosis and alzheimer's disease, and encourage the most vulnerable to undergo more frequent medical screening. this challenge must be met with particular care, and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − europe's population is ageing more and more because of the low birth rate, while life expectancy is increasing. despite longer life spans, older women have a significantly higher incidence of debilitating diseases (such as osteoporosis fractures, rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, stroke, urinary incontinence and cancer) than men of the same age. the same applies to the progressive development of disabilities due to psychomotor deceleration, episodes of mental confusion and dementia (e.g. alzheimer's disease), the incidence of which increases exponentially with age. information and prevention, together with research, are the key elements of a strategy which must involve all policy-makers, in particular national and european institutions, trade associations, but also the media and local authorities, with the aim of disseminating prevention strategies in order to promote virtuous behaviours to accompany healthy, active and healthy ageing for european women and men.
in writing. - antimicrobials have revolutionized medical and veterinary practice, leading to a decline in mortality rates for a high number of often fatal bacterial infections. however, medical advances in the age of antibiotics are threatened by the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. european health systems are already facing increased costs from antimicrobial-resistant infections and, according to the world health organisation, without concerted efforts to tackle this growing problem in the near future, the situation could get worse. the problem is compounded by a significant slowdown in the development of new antimicrobial agents. in this context, it is therefore essential to consider new approaches to the regulation of the subject which can give impetus to research in the field and to the development of new antimicrobials while ensuring patient safety. in addition, in order to counter the increase in antimicrobial resistance, the following are relevant: the exchange of best practices between member states, the training of human and veterinary health professionals and the provision of surveillance at european level. the baseline data on antimicrobial use in all member states must be clear, transparent and timely.
in writing. - i support the report by mr rosbach on an action plan to combat the growing risks of antimicrobial resistance. data from the world health organisation and the european centre for disease prevention and control show that antimicrobial resistance in human and veterinary medicine is increasing. for example, in europe alone, drug-resistant infections led to an increase of around 2.5 million hospital admissions in 2007 compared to previous years. the main causes are the misuse of antimicrobials and a huge delay in the development of new drugs because of the low usefulness of the products. this problem must be tackled as soon as possible by maintaining high vigilance, encouraging international cooperation, drawing up action plans between the commission and the member states to promote the prudent use of antimicrobials and, above all, by supporting the development of new treatments.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report, which deals with the documents referred to in the preamble with due caution and moderation, the current issue of drug resistance, also in relation to risk assessment in the food chain and the continuing unreassuring picture of the phenomenon of iatrogenic diseases. the report's guiding principles emphasise a holistic approach (in line with the 'one health' principle), integrating and enhancing cultural and educational aspects, prevention, attention to the sustainability and timeliness of mass immunisation systems and the promotion of research and development in a key sector of the eu economy. finally, i would like to make a point of the recommendations on cooperation, which are essential both for the development of scientific and industrial research and for effective supervision and monitoring of the effectiveness and validity of the european pharmacopoeia.
in writing. - in view of the growing problem of antimicrobial resistance in various viruses, which is causing the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people a year, i share the report's recommendations for tackling the problem. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistant bacteria cause 25,000 deaths a year in the eu, iceland and norway, and the number of resistant bacteria in europe is exploding. they travel across borders and pose a threat to the entire community. first of all, we need to make sure that we reduce the use of antimicrobials in both humans and animals. the gap between increased resistance and the development of new antimicrobials must also be bridged by promoting research and innovation. if we don't take action now, the rise of resistance could threaten our ability to treat patients and even return us to the pre-antibiotic era. it's time to change your attitude. the primary objective of the strategy must be to preserve the effectiveness of existing antimicrobials through responsible use, but this requires a change in mindset. better training for doctors, pharmacists, veterinarians and farmers and better information for the public on the harm caused by the misuse of antimicrobials would be needed.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance (amr) is the ability of a micro-organism to survive and proliferate in the presence of an antimicrobial at a dose generally sufficient to inhibit or kill micro-organisms of the same species. the problem of antimicrobial resistance is further aggravated by the emergence of multidrug resistance in some bacteria, which can delay healing or cause treatment to fail. the solution to the problem of antimicrobial resistance can be found through the proper prevention and prudent use of antimicrobials for both human and veterinary health. i am in favour of the text of the report because i believe it is essential in order to protect patients, to provide correct and transparent information and to ensure monitoring of data at european level.
in writing. - the inappropriate use of antibiotics not only in human medicine but also in veterinary medicine and agriculture is leading to a progressive increase in resistance in many bacterial species, thus undermining the therapies for infections and endangering patient safety. i believe that european political support for the problem of antibiotic resistance must first be expressed in the development of concrete actions directing everyone to the more prudent use of antibiotics. diagnostic surveillance, training and communication for healthcare professionals and the public, and cooperation between authorities are key elements in implementing procedures suitable for limiting administration to cases where administration is considered appropriate. in view of the increasingly worrying situation, i believe that it is urgent to monitor the phenomenon. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - antimicrobials have revolutionized medical and veterinary practice, leading to a decline in mortality rates from a high number of often fatal bacterial infections. but advances in medicine in the age of antibiotics are threatened by the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. european health systems are facing increased costs from antimicrobial-resistant infections: not only are the costs of the drugs needed to treat these infections often high, but the treatment plans are also longer and more complex, and, according to who, without a common front to find a solution to the problem, the situation is bound to get worse. it is therefore of particular importance to stimulate research and development of new antimicrobials, including through the exchange of good practice between the various european states, while respecting patient safety.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this budget of variation, the 2012 budget increases the level of resources available by over eur 6 billion. the total amount of payments available for the year now ending is therefore 135.8 billion compared with the initial 129 in the budget we voted on at the december part-session last year. it is clear that there is a growing discrepancy over the years between the initial level, the level of payments we vote on when we approve the forecast budget, and the final level, that at the end of the year. this discrepancy clearly shows that we always start with an underestimation of the bills we will have to pay during the year. this underestimation is due to many reasons, not to the commission's inability, but probably to the crisis, to many political reasons which have nothing to do with the ability to estimate properly. it is an underestimation, but it does carry risks. we saw this year what happened: the commission has also been active in the field of the environment. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. the slowdown and the freezing of programmes that has occurred this year will certainly be a reality that we will deal with very sharply next year, because we are starting with a budget for 2013 that is more than 2% smaller than this year's budget, and with a cut of 5 billion compared to the initial estimates of the commission in its budget proposal of april this year. parliament has made every effort possible - as it did last year, as it did two years ago - to ensure an adequate level of payments, and it has certainly succeeded in achieving useful results. i believe, however, that after this experience we shall be able to solve the serious problem of underestimation and inadequacy of the level of payments once and for all only when the european budget has finally been equipped with a proper system of own resources. until then, i think we shall suffer every year on this subject. but today, and this is the important fact, we are making available 6 billion euros. this is the way to get important policies, the european social fund and cohesion policy, but also programmes such as erasmus, which have been blocked, stopped, and which have put many students and universities in difficulty in recent months, back on track. i think the erasmus blockade was a useful shock to us all. it has made us understand, and this is something we must never forget, that the union's budget is a small budget compared to europe's gross domestic product, but it is a budget which, when it stops, stops useless, concrete and very real actions in the life of every european citizen.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr mavroyiannis, commissioner lewandowski, tomorrow parliament will give its green light to the so-called draft package on which the two arms of the budgetary authority have reached agreement in recent weeks. the package consists, as the honourable member said, of amending budget no 6 for 2012, adopted for an amount of eur 6 billion out of the eur 9 billion requested by the commission, the 2013 budget, which i shall deal with shortly, and three joint declarations which aim to ensure that all payment needs for 2012 and 2013 are covered in good time. what we are about to vote on tomorrow is therefore a political agreement and, like all political agreements, it is a compromise position which is of course only partially satisfied. in fact, we are faced with partial coverage of the legal and pending payment obligations of 2012, partially postponed in fact to 2013 through the artifice of suspended accounts. the level of payments for 2013 is also not satisfactory, as it was set at eur 132.836 billion, 5 billion less than the european commission's request, due to the council's intransigence. our agreement to this agreement was conditional on the signing, at the highest institutional level, of the three joint declarations as a guarantee of the commitment of the member states to pay in 2013 the resources needed to close the accounts for 2012 and to pay fresh resources, again in the course of 2013, in order not to prejudice in any way the correct implementation of the budget for the next year. during this long procedure we as parliament have fought - and will continue to do so in the course of the next year - for the proper implementation of all european policies, reaching an agreement which avoids the risk of discontinuity for some important european programmes such as those devoted to research, development and support for smes and the erasmus programme, already mentioned by mrs balzani. turning to the 2013 budget, and with specific reference to payments, the advance level is 5 billion lower than what was requested in the draft budget. in addition, the commission submitted its db on the assumption that all payments for 2012 would be actually paid in the same year, with no rollover effect on the 2013 budget. today, however, we are faced with €2.9 billion of suspended payments carried over to 2013, plus an estimated 6 million invoices that are currently arriving at the commission for november and december 2012. we are clearly aware that this level of resources will be insufficient to cover all payment needs in 2013, but we are equally convinced that the agreement reached is the best possible one given the difficult times member states are going through. i think, however, that the cost of non-agreement would have been much higher. we would have jeopardized the stability of the european economic system. i would like to stress that the agreement contains the main priorities expressed by parliament on heading 1a, which concerns research, innovation and small and mediumsized enterprises, and i would of course like to express my appreciation for the council's willingness to make these priorities, which are those of growth and development, the basis of this new year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank mr la via, mr vaughan and mr balzani, the rapporteurs for the 2013 budget and the dab no 6, for reaching this difficult compromise following the negotiations with the council. parliament reached an agreement on the 2013 budget with payment appropriations of 5 billion, less than the amount foreseen in the draft budget initially submitted by the commission. this decision is a strong act of responsibility on the part of this institution. but parliament is not prepared to sacrifice growth and, above all, employment in the european union in the name of a policy of austerity. for this reason, the same high sense of responsibility will have to be expressed by the council when, in the course of 2013, additional allocation of resources is needed to ensure the proper financing of union programmes and, above all, the payment of overdue invoices. only a genuine system of own resources will put an end to these exhausting negotiations and safeguard the credibility and solvency of the european institutions.
member of the commission. − mr president, a short closing comment. our budgetary package is a compromise solving today’s problems, though probably not fully the problems of tomorrow. but this was what was feasible and achievable under the present political and economic circumstances in europe. never before has the annual procedure been so transparent, with all sorts of deliveries to both sides of the budgetary authority, indicating which countries were asking for what, and their claims. this also revealed the rather schizophrenic position of some of the member states who asked for their reimbursement but did not respect the aggregate. the aggregate was called an amending budget aggregating the claims of the member states. in response to mr godmanis: we are normally creative in our budgetary practice, but we are not the sinners. it was the council position, accepted finally as a part of this compromise package, to cut what is the competitiveness component of a cohesion policy – probably the position was to save the poorest regions in convergence, which is why there was this methodology of cutting this component of the cohesion policy. for mr zemke: of course, it depends what is the fate of commitments – whether they are in the framework of the n+2 formula or simply decommitted, because this is the end of the story for commitments in the annual procedure. on this occasion it was also good to see what is behind the figures – that sometimes small amounts make a difference. small amounts are making a difference for erasmus students, small amounts are making a difference for the families in refugee camps in areas affected by war and also for the regions asking desperately for investment monies. we have today, to be voted on tomorrow, a good message for the beneficiaries, but we need to reflect – and i agree with all the voices asking for reflection – on how to proceed in the future with the annual procedure, in order not to create this sort of tension.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i should like to thank you for this useful debate. various views have been expressed. the exchange of views concludes long and difficult negotiations between our two institutions over several months, which have finally shown that we share many of the same objectives and agree that it is in everyone's interest to have an agreed budget for the next year. the annual budgetary procedure for this year was conducted under extremely difficult circumstances. nevertheless, all worked together in a constructive way, which allowed for a realistic and balanced budget for 2013 and a substantial budgetary amendment for 2012 which will allow the commission to pay all outstanding payments due, even today, during the last weeks of that year. the council has already adopted a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. we are also grateful for the understanding shown by the european parliament in the present difficult budgetary situation of many member states. i thank you again for your attention and look forward to a positive outcome in the vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to take this opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have taken part in these difficult negotiations, commissioner lewandowski, president lamassoure and the council. let us not forget that this negotiation has been extraordinarily heavy: we have had to deal not only with the reconciliation of the last budget of the financial programming, 2013, but also with the largest amending budget, no 6 for eur 9 billion, and let us not forget the request for eur 670 million from the solidarity fund for the earthquake in italy. at the beginning this was also part of the package, but thanks to the firmness of parliament and the request to withdraw it from the negotiations, we succeeded first of all in the great result of unblocking those funds. there's still a lot of problems, i'm sure. the problem of payments will not be solved in a day, but the good news is that today we have 6 billion available. it is not the 9 billion originally requested by the commission, but it is certainly the amount which will enable us to meet the most pressing urgent needs in the immediate future. i believe that the budgetary procedure has been transformed in this time of crisis. the budgetary negotiations are no longer confined to the forecast budgetary phase in the autumn of the previous year, but a constant monitoring of its attractiveness is essential. that's almost the real negotiation. in this respect i find the proposal made by mrs trautmann very interesting. perhaps the european semester could be used for this purpose too, to reduce the gap between the progress of payments from the european budget and the financial planning of the individual member states. the european semester could also be useful for this form of alignment which is not only political but also financial and would be very useful. so i would like to start from this - and this is something that commissioner lewandowski said - let us try to be proactive and look ahead.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the speeches which have been made in this chamber that the stomachaches and pains in this negotiation within parliament have been strong and the bitterness that remains at the end of the negotiation and the achievement of the agreement is still relevant. that is why we obviously wanted to emphasize, also in previous speeches, the sense of institutional responsibility which has characterized parliament in order to avoid a crisis between the institutions and within our beloved europe. on the other hand, i must point out that parliament has insisted that the joint declarations be signed by the three institutions represented at the highest level, because this is intended to be a guarantee for the coming financial year and for a commitment also on the part of the council to meet the accounts to be paid. we cannot accept as an institution that the accounts or the invoices to be paid are not honoured. the three declarations must therefore be understood by parliament as a need for fresh additional resources for the budget for the coming financial year. it will therefore not be possible to simply move figures from one budget line to another. in order to ensure proper implementation of the budget, additional fresh resources are needed, which the council will have to make available. i would like to conclude by thanking, of course, the other institutions for their cooperation in this difficult exercise, but also by expressing my sincere thanks to all our collaborators, officials from the political groups and from parliament, who have assisted us in this long negotiation and who obviously played an important role in the process of defining the 2013 budget.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner kallas, technical forecasts tell us that air traffic is set to double by 2030 and that europe will not be able to cope with much of this demand because of its limited airport capacity. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams is not a new agreement, but rather a new agreement between ryanair and ams. it is clear that europe is in serious danger of losing a large share of the aviation market because of airport capacity constraints, and it is clear that the european institutions, the commission and parliament in particular, are called upon to respond to this scenario by making more efficient use of existing capacity and, where possible, increasing it to meet the growing demand for transport services. but we know that economic resources are limited and that the availability of land is precious to consider new airports or new runways, so the revision of the slot allocation programmes is a concrete response in this respect. to put it another way, we could say that slots are like the beats of a heart that therefore regulate the life of the organism. the draft report submitted and adopted by the committee on transport on 6 november follows the text presented by commissioner kallas, although it contains the 80/20 rule, and strengthens the mechanisms for allocating and using time bands. the text provides, as a first step, for the possibility of legitimate recourse to the secondary market in slots, i.e. the exchange of slots, including through monetary compensation, which will enable airlines to adapt their slot portfolio to their respective scheduling needs. these exchanges must take place under the close supervision of the airport coordinators, so that the procedure for the sale or purchase of a time band is carried out in accordance with the rules and with the utmost transparency. for this reason, we in the committee on transport considered it useful to provide for the publication of the financial flows from the purchase and sale of slots in an annual report to be drawn up by a coordinator. with regard to the secondary market, it is also provided that part of the proceeds from the sale of slots will be allocated to a fund to support the development of airport infrastructure and the improvement of related services. in order to ensure fair competition between operators, the full independence of the role of airport coordinators is guaranteed. the latter are the central figure in the allocation pathway of slots, being responsible for managing the allocations of slots in an impartial, non-discriminatory and transparent manner. the text guarantees their full independence both in terms of financing, so that they are dependent on air carriers and airport operators, and in operational terms, but at the same time requires them to draw up an annual report outlining the general situation of slot allocation. another innovative element is the introduction of a system of penalties which imposes a precise discipline. there are, however, some aspects which i believe parliament and this house can still improve on, and these relate to the acceptance of certain amendments: the first is to restore the consistency that was foreseen in the original text, and the second is to provide for the legal definition of slots in such a way that it is clearly stated that the parties concerned by the allocation of slots are all the parties involved, air carriers, airport managers, but also citizens. finally, mr president, may i thank all the members and the shadow rapporteurs, fidanza, sassoli, lichtenberger, foster and kohlíček, who, together with the whole committee, have made a great contribution to the drafting of the text, for their effective cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr uggias for his cooperation in recent months on the allocation of slots at european airports. the commission's original proposal had some perplexing elements which the vote in the committee on transport has modified in a positive way, making progress in efficiency and transparency in the allocation and use of slots at european level. the group of the european people's party has supported certain qualifying points from the outset: maintaining the 80/20 rule for calculating the historicity of the use of slots in order not to create imbalances with an internationally established system and not to burden a market in difficulty with additional burdens, defining the serial length of slots to be kept at five weeks, abolishing the 'slot reservation fee' and focusing more on effective sanctions against misconduct by carriers, as well as more transparent and controlled rules for the secondary market in order to avoid abuses and speculative practices by carriers. the commission has also introduced for the first time an important instrument to deal with the interventions on airport infrastructure, which are essential to increase capacity. i would like to conclude with a comment on the ground-handling services dossier, on which i would like to express my full support and that of my delegation for the work of the rapporteur, mr zasada. given the outcome of the vote in the committee on transport, i think it is important to be able to refer the text back to the committee for further negotiation, without jeopardising the good work done so far and the progress that, we must not forget, has been made both in terms of social clauses, with the work of the empl committee, and in terms of quality standards, as the rapporteur rightly points out. i think we should not throw this opportunity away and instead we should seize it to the full.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the slots covered by this measure, they must not be used to maintain privileges or to maintain a position, but must be used to open up to competition, favouring other airlines and, above all, passengers. that's one of the issues, the other is noise. it is right that those living in the vicinity of airports should not be subjected to excessive inconvenience from the noise generated by airports. but it would also be necessary to take into account a certain priority in time, namely to go and see exactly how many houses, how many people have moved to live near an airport knowing that there was one and of course knowing the inconveniences, also in terms of noise, that this structure entails. (the speaker agrees to answer a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue-card question. in the meantime, we are talking about local authorities and we have to look at the individual countries to see which are the competent authorities. not all countries give these powers to local authorities, some give them to central authorities. i just wanted to make a point. the local authority can only give permission to build, then it is the person concerned who decides to build, who decides to live near an airport, it is not that the authorities, local or central, force someone to live there.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe today has a major air traffic in the world. it will certainly not be the same tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will certainly be even worse, because our rules and our structures will not be in a position to be fully adequate. the text we are voting on tomorrow undeniably brings with it advances, improvements in several respects: the commission has already proposed that the commission should be able to provide the member states with the information they need to enable them to make their own decisions. the situation in this text enables us to face the future in some respects with greater serenity. however, i would like to stress that we also had to be more courageous, to push for a more significant change in the rules which would have allowed us to tackle the problem of the correct use of airport capacity with greater vigour - i am referring to the 'use it or lose it' rule. the history of the evolution of this regulation tells us that to keep up with the times, a review is necessary every 8-10 years. the air traffic situation will be very difficult for us by then, more so than today, of course, and we hope that we will still have time to remedy this. for example, having more courage today would mean being able to take two steps forward, to hand over to our successors more rational, more far-sighted rules, a more solid starting point from which to start again. today, with this text of steps forward, we make one. a good result, sure, but not the best possible; a good text, sure, but not the best possible.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to sum up, as mr zasada himself has shown in such a short time. i would like to thank all the members for their contributions to this debate, and i would also like to thank the officials of the tran committee and the political advisers who have worked on this. but i want to say two things about the issues that have been raised. the first concerns the risk of the slot regulation affecting regional connectivity. we have included a new wording in article 13, which for example provides for the possibility for the coordinator to refuse to confirm the sale of slots if this would jeopardise regional connectivity with the major air hubs and the possibility of ensuring that peripheral and island areas are protected. the second concerns the need for consistency in the series, which is to replace the term 'irregularity' which is already too broad, and thus serves to protect citizens. we must not think only of small companies, a law is a law that takes into account the complexity of the interests at stake. i would like to make a few comments on this point. we have seen the big interests in the debate today, we have talked about airplanes but the big lobby interests are flying. we have seen transformations in people who seemed to be defending a certain category or with a certain ideological function. i think that this should not, however, make us lose sight of our main interest, which is to balance the interests of the various parties and to act above all in the interests of the citizens. in this connection, i would like to ask everyone to support the legal definition of slots in the case of slots, because i think it is essential to subordinate the allocation system to a preliminary legal framework which emphasizes the public utility function of slots. mr president, i have one final comment on this. i say this with the acknowledgement that i have given commissioner kallas of having touched on matters in a strong, even courageous way. i must say to him with equal frankness that parliament's vote in favour of two of the three dossiers which have come today must be respected. it would be very, very serious if there were any lack of respect for the european parliament. it is a respect that has been given to you, commissioner, by the vote of confidence that you have won in this house at the beginning of the mandate of the barroso commission, and it is your duty to continue ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. on the groundhandling dossier, i believe that at the present time the proposal should be referred back to committee because the social standards and working conditions are still not satisfactory. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the inclusion of quality of service criteria is also lacking, so that the evaluation of the tender is not based solely on price and therefore only on downstream competition. i think that a maximum time for the start of the baggage handover and a maximum time for the end of the service, compensation for passengers in case of non-compliance with minimum standards, etc. should be included among the criteria. so yes to improving the social conditions of workers but no to rejecting the commission proposal because our task is to improve the quality of services and workers without becoming a hostage to those who claim that an increase in the number of suppliers could be an obstacle to the development of the sector.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that by approving this enhanced cooperation, some member states are throwing themselves a so-called "sack on the foot". a financial transaction tax would make sense at global level, or at least applied to the whole of the european union. our english friends will be pleased with this gift. london will become even more of a world financial centre and other countries will lose money and jobs. there has been a lot of talk lately about the united kingdom wanting to leave the european union. i suggest that they think about it carefully, because europe is always very generous and sometimes naive towards them. it is not enough to pay the british correction every year, now we will also give them the exclusive monopoly of financial activities. perhaps the point is that in the united kingdom there are people who really care about the interests of their own country, while in the rest of the union people are passively subjected to decisions made elsewhere, without any thought for the future and the consequences of certain choices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recommendation we are voting on makes explicit reference to the role that the commission will have to play in supplementing the initial impact assessment of the introduction of the financial transaction tax in the context of enhanced cooperation. i believe that parliament can begin to contribute to the work that the commission will have to carry out, a work of harmonization, a work of comparison with those who operate on the financial markets, with those who want to discuss the technical and practical consequences and not with those who, by anticipating apocalyptic scenarios, simply ask us not to apply the tax. i remember the most important things very quickly. first, to concentrate this tax on short-term and very short-term transactions, on high-frequency trading, the need to tax individual transactions and not end-of-day balances, taxation from the place where the asset is traded and not the nationality of the intermediary, the possibility of increasing the rate for transactions concerning tax havens, the possibility of introducing mechanisms that affect more derivatives bought and sold for speculative purposes than those used for actual insurance coverage. in short, to take account of the possibility of differentiated and calibrated forms of taxation in order to achieve a fairer and more effective tax on financial transactions, based on the principle of progressivity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission's report on the state of implementation of the 2005 regulation on the welfare of animals during transport shows that there are still problems in the member states with the full implementation of community legislation, which, i would remind you, is the most advanced and ambitious in the world in terms of animal welfare. the committee on agriculture, which i have the honour of chairing, has done a careful and balanced job and the report highlights the gaps in the commission's report in terms of uniformity of data and notes that there are too many disparities in the implementation of the legislation between member states. the limitation of the number of hours for transporting animals for slaughter is important, but we must not forget that the strict hygiene and health standards we have imposed on slaughterhouses are often not compatible with small local slaughterhouses. but we cannot simply limit the debate to the number of hours. indeed, there are also other parameters that affect animal welfare, such as appropriate vehicle structures and the proper handling of the animals themselves, as documented by the efsa opinion. i thank the rapporteur, mr wojciechowski, and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done and i therefore ask you to vote for the report as it has been approved by a very large majority in the committee on agriculture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 1 100 000 european citizens are asking us to limit the transport of animals to slaughter to eight hours. the european parliament cannot remain deaf to such a call for civility. if we want to protect animals during transport, we must put an end to these journeys which take days and which cause animals untold suffering and abuse. the commissioner, the current regulation does not allow for effective controls on long journeys and it often happens that many animals are transported in dramatic conditions, even without water, with limited space and poor ventilation. i therefore call on all members to vote in favour of the eight-hour limit, as called for in the written declaration of march this year. the european union can and must make a difference. with this vote we finally have the opportunity to lay the political foundations for ending the needless suffering of millions of animals across europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as has been said, the commission's report marks a civilization in the rules of the european union with the hypothesis we are discussing here. taking care of nonhuman living things is very important for our health but also for respecting their rights. i think it takes three things in quick succession. the first is the proposed introduction of a strict eight-hour limit for transport. the second concerns transport conditions. the way in which these animals are transported from one place to another is not irrelevant, neither to them nor to the conditions under which we will be called upon, in the role of users of their meat, to be able to use it. finally, i think there is a clear problem of controls. the conditions we set are too often ignored and circumvented, and so checks are essential, and with them sanctions, so that the rule, once it has been decided, is respected.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me start by saying that i absolutely agree with the author of the question, because mediation is faster, it is, generally speaking, cheaper than ordinary court proceedings, and it also gives rise to a culture of non-litigious behaviour. in litigation there are only winners and losers, but there can be partners if you go to mediation. so cost savings in both legal and management time for individuals and businesses make mediation a particularly attractive case. we agree on the analysis. how to get it done? you know that the mediation directive was adopted in may 2008 and was to be transposed on 21 may 2011. the good news is that all member states have announced the measures transposing the directive. the commission considers that, after one year only of application of the directive by the member states, we need to give more time for evidence and experience before concluding whether the directive has been met or not. in order to accelerate things, i intend to present a communication on mediation next year in order to promote the use of mediation. in this context we are also collecting extensive information regarding the transposition and use of the directive by member states. this study will focus on the importance of the promotion of mediation, because it is very clear that if we have an interesting law, but nobody knows that it exists and lawyers and the judiciary are not utilising it, then it does not serve the use we want it for. we think there has to be a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial procedures and that mediation should be encouraged much more strongly and in cross-border disputes. consequently, we have requested that the individual national reports which will be collected as part of the ongoing study should also provide specific information on the existing relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings in the member states. on the basis of this information we would then reflect on future steps to increase the cases to be mediated in each country and to achieve what we call a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings. in accordance with the directive (although this is not something new) i can tell you that there is due to be a report in 2016. on the basis of this report the commission will see if the directive needs to be changed and whether there need to be amendments or new proposals. but i believe that in the meantime we should not wait until 2016 to go ahead with the proposals which i have made. i see mediation also in the context of our justice for growth programme. as you know, we have bound together a series of measures in order to bring an enhancement of economic activities – mostly cross-border for smes – with the help of justice reforms, and mediation is one of these. that is also why we have put mediation into the annual growth survey 2013, which sets a priority for the reforms in all member states. within the context of the european semester, the commission is developing a justice scoreboard for analysing the strengths and the weaknesses of the judicial systems in all member states. this will also serve as a tool for member states to improve the efficiency, quality and independence of their civil justice system. we have seen that the equality, independence and efficiency of these systems is a factor for growth or non-growth, so we have included this in our annual growth survey in the hope that by this means we can also push for more mediation to be taken up in the member states. this can also be achieved through appropriate training, information and awareness-raising, along with the introduction of incentives to make mediation interesting for the parties. this is work in progress, but work we are behind with and which we are pushing in order to advance more quickly.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with both mrs mccarthy's introduction and commissioner reding's words. there is no doubt about the benefits that can be derived from effective and full participation in the mediation system. unfortunately, we still have negative data at european level at the level of the union, which rightly needs to be monitored, since the deadline for transposition has only been a year. in addition, looking at the italian experience, even just one year can be enough to have a further indication of the merit of these procedures, because we have had a saving that according to a recent study was quantified at about 480 million in just one year, with a success rate in procedures of 49%. so, that's a pretty good number. however, we are still faced with these negative data and the issue that most concerns me is the one that has reopened in a very critical way in our country following a ruling by the court of legality which declared in part the unconstitutionality of our transposition law with regard to the provision of the mandatory nature of mediation. this parliament, already with resolution no 361 of 2011, had pushed for different incentives, which the commissioner reiterated tonight, to increase the degree of use of the mediation tool, other than the provision of mandatory. so, he had always shown the way to voluntary mediation. i would like to know whether the commission also takes this view, or whether it takes a different view of the fact that this obligation may be considered to be prejudicial to the fundamental rights of the defence and the right to a fair trial enshrined in the charter of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i agree with mrs mccarthy that it is very important that the commission should make every effort to spread the practice of mediation. it is a question of informing the citizens of the union, of promoting training measures, of giving substance to a far-sighted choice which i think can have very positive results for all the people we are addressing. as has been said, mediation becomes even more useful in a recessionary phase when the resources available to individuals and households are objectively diminishing. it's a very important thing that you said, and i'm glad you pointed it out: mediation is also a cultural choice, it's a choice that can allow us, in civil and commercial cases, to go beyond the judicial process and give a precise idea of the relationship between people who have something to trigger their dispute about. i believe that this culture can then easily spread to the field of labour lawsuits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a strong europe with an exceptional emotional tension towards the fundamental rights of the individual. they are the measure of the degree of civilization of peoples and must be recognized, accepted and, where necessary, protected. the european people must express their agreement on the degree and intensity of protection of fundamental rights, which is fundamental and thus the most profound value of a europe that is free, dignified and a protagonist, with faster and more effective justice, and therefore concrete justice. we therefore support an orderly framework that values freedom and fundamental rights against violence, in particular gender-based violence and violence against children. however, we are in favour of the traditional family, while recognising the freedom of sexual orientation and taking account of the principle of subsidiarity. we are protecting the young, the disabled and the elderly, and we are counting on the commission's renewed impetus to provide training to enable more people to enter the labour market, as work remains a fundamental right today more than ever. however, there are sensitive issues in this report which relate to the traditional connotation of the family and, for example, to drug use, which is envisaged as an ideologically oriented approach, i.e. in the case of harm reduction, it has taken account of a feature which we do not share, thinking instead of the prevention and rehabilitation of drug addiction. there are still a number of questions which we believe should have been addressed in a different context than that of fundamental rights and their effective application and protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the work of mrs flašíková beňová is very good. however, tomorrow we will find ourselves in a paradoxical situation: the european union will be awarded the nobel prize at the beginning of the session, and a few hours later we will be discussing the rights which are objectively at the basis of this award. then it's true that we were rewarded for our past and not for our present. i believe that rights, as the commissioner knows very well, are put under pressure whenever there are processes of transformation or major crises, and we are in this situation. then they should be valued and considered as an identity element of an entire community. i would be very happy if, for example, the european city of rights were to be established, as the european city of culture is. rights and values on the one hand and culture on the other have always been the fundamental elements of the identity of communities. i hope it comes to that soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the last speech showed us that the road of sowing hatred is always the most practical short cut to achieving political objectives in the face of wrong ideas. the views of the eurosceptics are wrong. but let me say that the biggest mistake would be to respond to wrong ideas with confused ideas. we will show that we are confused if the council's work ends with yet another postponement on any subject and on any subject, and we will show that we are confused if we prefer, as the ruling class of the european union, to wait until the elections in all the most important countries are over before taking very important decisions. we will show that we have confused ideas if we yield to the sowing of hatred with the harvest of uncertainty, ineptitude, inability to face an epochal situation. we have a duty to assume a great responsibility, to reach concrete conclusions, to show that we believe in the idea of europe much more strongly than those who do not believe in it. if we do not have this freedom, this capacity, this strength, we shall have no more europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to propose to draw up a road map for a genuine economic and monetary union is to recognise that the present structure of the eurozone is inadequate, and that is why the outcome of the exercise launched in june seems particularly disappointing. after having recognized that today's economic and monetary union is not genuine, the european council and its president do not seem to be able to outline a different vision, to outline a road map. all they can offer us are contracts, which risk being weak with the strong and strong with the weak, and the mythical fiscal capacity, and moreover, says van rompuy, contracts today and fiscal capacity tomorrow, perhaps. a fiscal capacity that is not yet understood whether as the parliament and the commission demonstrate that it can and must be done will be placed in the eu budget or whether it will be another intergovernmental fund designed to undermine the eu institutions and therefore the same common currency that it also aims to protect. fortunately, there is the parliament, which has done its job well by proposing an ambitious and realistic vision and road map, and fortunately there is the commission, which has proposed a blueprint which we criticize in many respects, especially from the point of view of the social vision, but which at least outlines an ambitious federal type of transition focused on the community method and the role of the institutions and which we therefore share and support in this respect. we will of course discuss and discuss with the commission, making full use of our own initiative. the only thing that remains for the moment is the positive initiative on public investment, which we have called for, and which is the only light that has been lit by a community institution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that the ppe group is opposed to a rollcall vote on this point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the new general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 because i believe that parliament has thus shown a great sense of responsibility, ensuring continuity of management which could not be called into question. it is true that there have been some openings in relation to the council's original reading, but the commission's contribution in this respect is not entirely in line with our expectations. the package agreement ensures a number of policy priorities, ranging from growth to development, which are in line with the 2020 strategy. as rapporteur for the libe committee on budgetary opinion, i believe that the planned cuts in the internal affairs budget are particularly important. however, the need to give the european union sufficient own resources appears to be the political horizon of reference to ensure new programmes for research and support for small and mediumsized enterprises and a further boost to training.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this proposal because non-linear air transport plays a strategic role in ensuring connections to and from the less accessible regions of europe and therefore contributes to their development and integration. the proposal also welcomes the introduction of a secondary market for timetables, already in use in some european airports, and in this context the focus has been on the need to ensure that transfers and exchanges are as transparent and regulated as possible. an important new feature is the possibility of earmarking part of the proceeds from the sale of slots for the improvement of airport infrastructure and the enhancement of passenger services. the risk to be avoided, however, could be that airlines with slots at large, mainstream airports would use them more for long-haul traffic, damaging peripheral areas of europe, which would be cut off from the rest of the world network.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have given a favourable opinion on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-reducing operating restrictions at airports in the union, and i share the report in its entirety. the proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around airports. the european union is at the forefront of environmental legislation and the fight against climate change, but it continues to set the pace when it comes to noise pollution. today, the number of people affected by airport noise is increasing, with consequent negative health effects, as documented by countless scientific studies. people living near airports and in neighbouring areas suffer from the triple burden of noise, air and chemical pollution, which is why every effort should be made to achieve the full sustainability of airports.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the increasing noise associated with air traffic, especially night flights, is having a negative impact on the quality of life of almost four million european citizens who live near airports. these citizens are victims of a triple pollution: noise, air and chemical. noise from air traffic, especially at night, is a serious health hazard, as has been recognized by international scientific studies. at the same time, most travellers would like to have a wide choice of air services, and there is no doubt that the presence of an airport is an important factor in regional growth and development for the region where it is located. it is our task as parliament to find effective solutions and, if necessary, to impose operational restrictions in order to strike the right balance between these two often conflicting needs. as the environment committee of the european parliament has clearly stated, however, the economic factor alone cannot and must not be taken into account: the protection of the health of european citizens living near airports must be our priority.
in writing. - i would like to stress here the possible synergies of the european union budget and the need to see the budget as a complementary instrument of support for the economies of the member states. draft amending budget no 6/2012 should take into account the need to maintain a balance between commitments and payment needs for 2012. i think it is essential to reach agreement on an amending budget which takes account of the serious difficulties arising from the state of the national economies. parliament must strengthen strategies to pursue investment objectives in strategic sectors for growth. only by taking a realistic view of the difficulties of the economies of the individual member states will it be possible to pursue parliament's priorities effectively.
in writing. - i am very proud of today's vote, which sent an important political message, representative of parliament's firm will to ensure that the eu has the resources it needs to continue to implement its policies and programmes properly (see erasmus, amongst others). the eur 6 billion that member states will make available to cover, albeit partially, the necessary payments in 2012, as well as the political commitments made for the 2013 budget, will be able to secure investments for growth and job creation, including through the provision of additional funds to be made available by member states in the course of 2013. this was a result of the strong demands made by parliament and achieved by the signing, at the highest political level (the three presidents of the three institutions, parliament, council and commission), of three joint declarations. as with all agreements, it is clearly a compromise, but i am sure that it was the best possible solution, also in view of the serious economic crisis we are going through. we are convinced that the european budget is a strategic investment tool for the eu's recovery and we will therefore continue to work throughout 2013 to ensure its proper and full implementation.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteurs. the only way out of this impasse, which is making the budgetary negotiations more and more difficult every year, is to resolve the problem of financing the union with urgency and responsibility by means of a genuine system of own resources, which should come into force with the next multiannual financial framework, thus eliminating once and for all the division of the european union into net contributors and net beneficiaries.
in writing. − this vote closed the procedure for the adoption of the 2013 budget of the european union. this year it was particularly difficult to reach an agreement and i imagine that we will have the same problems again for the next financial year and especially for the multiannual financial framework up to 2020. at a time when sacrifices are required at all levels, it was impossible to ask for more than has been achieved, and it is still possible to allocate resources to some of our priorities, such as agriculture, the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, support for young people and people with disabilities and the protection of the external borders. in future, however, we will have to review certain expenditure items which, frankly, have no meaning, such as the famous example of the double seat of parliament, which is now well known, but which we must insist on so that even those who are still opposed, such as france and luxembourg, will understand that this is no longer the time for sterile selfishness, but that we must deal with a reality which is difficult for all european citizens whom we ourselves represent in our parliamentary capacity.
in writing. − by adopting this document, the european parliament, in the light of the report of the committee on budgets and the conclusions of the budgetary trilogue of 29 november 2012, has decided to give priority to growth and jobs in next year's budget, implementing a strategy that will seek to overcome possible blockages in payments in 2013. today, therefore, the european parliament has demonstrated its willingness to ensure that all available resources are used to implement the union's policies correctly. the €6 billion for the payment of 2012 accounts and the budget commitments for 2013 will be used to ensure smart investment for growth and job creation. finally, i find it very important that this agreement on the 2012 budget amendment has made it possible to access aid to cope with globalisation, which is aimed at workers who have become unemployed in seven countries: spain, finland, denmark, italy, sweden, austria and romania.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text by mr la via and mr vaughan. taking into account the budgetary consolidation efforts currently undertaken in the member states, the european parliament and the council, taking note of the level of payments proposed by the commission for 2013, agree to a reduction in the level of payment appropriations for 2013 compared to the commission's draft budget. looking ahead, i believe that the only way out of a situation which is making budgetary negotiations more and more difficult year by year is to resolve the problem of financing the union with urgency and responsibility through a genuine system of own resources, which should come into force with the next multiannual financial framework, thus eliminating once and for all the division of the european union into net contributors and net beneficiaries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the reports on the derogation from the 2012 budget and the proposal for the 2013 budget as they represent the compromise reached after a difficult negotiation which was of fundamental importance. in particular, i think it is crucial that we have reached an agreement on the 6 billion to be allocated to pay the 2012 bills, even though the deficit was 9 billion. the remaining 3 billion will have to be recovered through a sustained commitment by the institutions; it is not possible to give in to distrust in a time of crisis such as the one we are in now. in addition, the commitments for 2013 will allow the eu to boost investment, create jobs, reduce unemployment and revive the economy. the approval of the budget must be seen as an indication of the institutions' commitment to the eu's citizens and as an assurance of the stability of european finances. among the most important achievements for the 2013 budget i focus on competitiveness, where resources were increased by 4.8% compared to 2012 levels and the aid granted to italy for companies producing two-wheelers in emilia-romagna.
in writing. - i support the daerden report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for 512 disbursements in the period 28 february to 28 november 2011. the text provides for the allocation of eur 2 658 495 from the egf, the purpose of which is to reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the globalisation process taking place on world markets.
in writing. − in recent years, the european motorcycle industry, and in particular the italian one, has been hit hard by the crisis. in italy alone, the leading european producer of two-wheelers, there was a decline in production and registrations of more than 30 percentage points from 2008 to 2010 and the cost was borne by many workers who lost their jobs due to this sharp slowdown. the european globalisation adjustment fund is designed to facilitate the reintegration of these people into the world of work, and in this case it will benefit emilian workers affected by redundancies due to the crisis in the motorcycle industry. this is one of the few examples of italian companies having access to this european fund, and it can serve as an example for other sectors and other companies affected by the crisis to receive this aid. of course, it would be better to prevent these problems from occurring in advance and not to seek remedies when the situation is compromised. we hope that europe will learn from its mistakes and defend its companies and workers vigorously from the outset, because, as a well-known advertisement said, prevention is better than cure.
in writing. - as a member of the european parliament from emilia-romagna, i can only rejoice at the adoption of this resolution, which i voted in favour of, to mobilise the european globalisation fund for a total amount of eur 2 658 495 for italy. the application concerns 512 redundancies in ten undertakings active in the manufacture of means of transport in my region. the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important instrument for industrial conversion which the european union makes available to companies at risk of closure as a result of globalisation. the contribution will be paid to the ministry of social policies and the emilia-romagna region will be the intermediate body of the managing authority. i am sorry to note, however, that once again a large tenth of this european parliament, the majority of which are british and dutch members of parliament and a few french members, continue to reject any gesture of solidarity with our country, on this occasion as well as on other recent ones such as the terrible earthquake which left many families, elderly people and children stranded on the streets on 20 may. it would be good to remind these members that italy is one of the largest contributors to the european budget, which their respective countries also benefit from through joint programmes.
in writing. - i consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be an indispensable instrument for ensuring support for workers in the motorcycle sector in italy, who have been hit hard by the world financial and economic crisis. due to the major changes affecting the european motorcycle industry, there has been a significant decrease in the registration of two-wheel motor vehicles in europe. with regard to italy in particular, the production of motorcycles and motorcycles has been reduced in a worrying way and it cannot be overemphasized here that my country is the leading producer in europe of two-wheel motor vehicles. the egf will help to reintegrate into the labour market 502 workers made redundant by ten motorcycle and spare parts manufacturers in emilia-romagna. i am voting in favour because i believe that we must show the will to take concrete action to help save one of the most vulnerable sectors of industry.
in writing. − on 19 october 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in global trade flows due to globalisation. the application in question, for a total amount of eur 2 658 495, concerns approximately 500 redundancies in ten companies in emilia-romagna active in the motorcycle manufacturing sector. the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed, including compatibility with actions financed by the structural funds, shall include measures for the professional reintegration of the workers concerned, such as career guidance, assistance in actively seeking employment, training and retraining initiatives, relocation services, promotion of entrepreneurship and allowances for active research. i have, of course, voted in favour of this.
in writing. - i support the daerden report on the mobilisation of the egf to support the 3,748 redundancies of saab automobile sa, saab automobile powertrain ab and its 16 swedish suppliers. the commission gave the green light for the mobilisation of the egf for an amount of eur 5 454 560 following specific analyses which identified the link between redundancies and the major structural changes in world trade patterns which are known to have occurred as a result of globalisation.
in writing. - serious liquidity problems have led to the suspension of production by the well-known swedish manufacturer. the company's crisis has led to the loss of 1,350 jobs at saab automobile sa, saab automobile powertrain ab and 16 of its suppliers. the global crisis has made the automotive sector one of the most vulnerable manufacturing sectors. that is why i think it is essential that europe should make its contribution through the aid package under consideration. there have been many occasions when the egf has demonstrated the effectiveness of its support, both for professional placement and job search and for business creation. i believe that there is a real possibility of giving hope in a difficult climate such as the one in which the workers of the swedish brand are living, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - my vote on the polledo report is in favour. the text identifies in a relevant and timely manner all the actions that need to be invested urgently to provide support and retraining for workers who are currently unemployed following the crisis that affected 423 enterprises in the manufacture of metal products, excluding machinery and equipment, in the basque country region of spain from 22 january to 22 october 2011. i therefore support the mobilisation of the egf and the allocation of eur 1 299 545 to help workers in difficulty.
in writing. - in view of the close link between the changes in world trade and the excesses of the basque company, i welcome the proposal to take action by mobilising the egf. we are facing a disastrous situation. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the aid to the following sectors: indeed, manufacturing is the main supplier of inputs to manufacturing industries ranging from shipbuilding to construction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the relocation assistance provided by europe will have a positive impact on the labour market, and i therefore vote in favour of it.
in writing. - my vote on the kozlowski report is in favour. the text identifies in a relevant and timely manner the actions on which it is appropriate to invest urgently to provide support and retraining to workers currently unemployed following the crisis that affected flextronics international denmark a/s in denmark from 1 july to 31 october 2011. i therefore support the mobilisation of the egf and the allocation of eur 1 370 910 to help workers in difficulty.
in writing. - the redundancies, amounting to 8% of the workforce in the telephone business, at the facilities of the nokia giant, are the result of the relocation of the plants to asia. the challenges that markets are putting to the most disparate industrial sectors have costs, costs that fall mainly on the employment side. i believe that this is a challenge which europe must first of all take up by mobilising the egf. the trend is towards off-shoring, in particular production has been shifted to asia since 2011 sales were growing mainly in china, india, russia and brazil. nokia's headquarters adopted the strategy of moving production as close as possible to the markets. from the description of the phenomenon, which i have just quoted, i believe that the conditions for the approval of the egf are all met. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - my vote on the rübig report is in favour. the text identifies in a relevant and timely manner the actions on which it is necessary to invest urgently to provide support and retraining for workers who are currently unemployed following the crisis that affected 105 enterprises in the austrian region of styria from 1 april to 15 december 2011. i therefore support the mobilisation of the egf and the allocation of eur 5 200 650 to help workers in difficulty.
in writing. - as the crisis worsened, the number of redundancies even increased and companies made the cuts to the social budget made by styria in order to reorganise its overall budget. i therefore welcome the mobilisation of the fund in favour of the mobile social services company in styria. the particular economic and financial crisis is forcing many companies to lay off more and more workers. it is the employees in the specialised service companies who have been hit hardest. i therefore believe that the union must make a constructive contribution by providing the egf. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. i share the view of the rapporteur who proposes to reject the european commission's proposal. i do not think that the methodology used to compile these statistics is acceptable, with questions that invade sensitive areas of citizens' lives, the answers to which may be of doubtful veracity. i also do not find the expenditure of eur 12 000 000 required to finance this initiative clearly and satisfactorily justified.
in writing. - i voted in line with the rapporteur's indication to reject the commission's proposal, as i believe that the underlying methodological problem has not been sufficiently explored. in order to protect the commission's work, it must be said that the current statistics do not give us a precise picture because they do not tell us the number of crimes committed but only those reported, some of which will not be recognised, while others will not be reported because they are not reported. and this last case coincides, unfortunately, with those crimes that are most connected to the perception of security, because perhaps they concern that microcrime that is more difficult to hit ex post. however, i think it is right that the report has raised doubts about how these challenges have been addressed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on crime prevention because it is on the basis of accurate and consistent statistical data that legislative and operational instruments can be developed at eu level. the phenomenon of organised crime has become transnational and therefore affects all member states. we need statistical data, obtained with uniform methodologies and criteria, which can be subsequently re-used at european level to develop coherent and effective policies. action against organised crime is essential to protect the security of citizens and the legal economy. increased judicial and police cooperation between member states and increasing levels of circulation of reliable information and statistics should also be promoted.
in writing. − the method of data collection for the production of european crime safety statistics has left some doubt about the actual effectiveness of this survey method and, consequently, about their actual statistical validity. in addition, the report presented by the commission contains further critical points, which are why i thought it appropriate to vote in favour of this resolution, which in fact rejects the statistical survey as a whole. i believe that some of the steps in the study and data processing process must therefore be revised and, finally, that the costs of this type of survey should be better accounted for and, where possible, while respecting the standards of efficiency and effectiveness, that costs should be reduced as much as possible.
in writing. - there are some problems with the methodology used, particularly with regard to the types of questions asked, as some of them are sensitive and it is difficult to imagine the added value or truthfulness of the answers. in addition, there is no clear and correct explanation of the expenditure indicated. for these reasons, i agree with the decision to reject the proposal.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of mr kirkhope's proposal to reject the commission's proposal to carry out individual and family crime safety surveys in the eu by collecting, compiling, processing and transmitting data collected from household/individual surveys to the commission by the member states. the proposal would cost €12 million and the data collected would not be released until 2014.
in writing. − european security policies have always been implemented on the basis of information and statistical data, which have been used to provide appropriate and effective security tools. i do not think that the provision of reliable measurements justifies the methodology used for receiving data. i think that in future action must be taken in this respect, taking particular account of the sensitivity of the questions raised. when investigating crime perceptions, it is necessary to ask clear, precise questions that are consistent with the sensitive data being investigated. similar inquiries are useful in so far as the questions asked do not leave room for divergent interpretations and each member state has a duty to carry them out. it is thought that not all member states have the same duty to collect information on, for example, domestic violence. i am voting in favour of the proposal in the hope that new legislative proposals will improve the methodology for collecting statistical data.
in writing. − common statistics at eu level are an important basis for developing eu policies. this is all the more true in the area of criminal law, which is a mixed area of competence in which eu action is bound by the principle of subsidiarity, also because criminal law is concerned with the way in which rights are understood. the proposal raises questions about the methodology used, particularly as regards the types of questions asked, as some of them are sensitive and sensitive and it is difficult to imagine the added value or truthfulness that the answers might have. at the same time, and in view of the particular situation of economic crisis, there is no clear and correct explanation for the expenditure of eur 12 000 000. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote.
in writing. - i do not support the zasada report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on groundhandling services at union airports and repealing council directive 96/67/ec. i believe that there is no credible evidence to justify a new legislative proposal to liberalize groundhandling services. i think that the available data show that such an act is only likely to destabilise the sector with repercussions for workers, who will risk further reductions in wages and already weak forms of protection at work.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the commission's proposal does not bring any benefit or improvement. i agree with the rapporteur who categorically rejects any further liberalization. the market for ground handling services has already reached a high level of productivity. increasing the social pressure on the workers in the sector and forcing them into a precarious situation is contrary to the interests of the security of the population. the objective of improving quality is not achieved by social dumping. the current standards, the regularity of operations and the strong motivation of workers are at risk. a full opening of the market would increase the pressure on ground staff, who would in turn be forced to reduce staff costs. this would lead to downward pressure on wages, less job stability, less training of staff and an increase in fixed-term work.
in writing. - ground support services, which are crucial to the smooth running of air operations, have long been the subject of debate. efficiency is being sought, in the knowledge of the importance of these. the objective of reducing delays and improving the quality of passenger services can be pursued through the reformulation of the legal framework of the regulation, which provides an opportunity to significantly improve the existing system. i believe, for example, that by providing self-service for each airline, the overall quality of service can be improved, particularly at large airports. since we have seen the negative effects of the experience of liberalization leading to the precariousness of work, i believe that the opening up of the care services market is a positive opportunity only if it is balanced, since a complete opening up of the market would lead to downward pressure on staff wages. it is also important to take into account the urgency of developing a common and transparent charging system for centralised airport infrastructure and facilities and of introducing improvements to tendering procedures. in the light of the foregoing considerations, i am in favour of ensuring the highest possible level of quality and safety.
in writing. - mr zasada's report is part of the so-called 'airports package'. although the commission's proposal on groundhandling services at eu airports can bring improvements to the current regulatory system, there are still several issues that deserve more appropriate scrutiny. only when this has been done will there be the requirements to ensure a real opening up of the market based on consistency, transparency and a better service for airport staff and consequently for european passengers.
in writing. − the new regulation on the allocation and use of airport slots represents, within the airport package, a step forward in efficiency and transparency in the allocation and use of slots at european level. while i share the commission's general objective of ensuring the optimal allocation and use of airport slots at congested airports in the european union, i nevertheless believe that the entire system of allocation of slots cannot be without a clear organisational and financial separation of coordinators from all the actors involved, such as airlines and airport operators. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that we need to seek greater independence for the role of coordinators, also through a more balanced presence of stakeholders within the coordination committee. i welcome two important developments: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united kingdom, which is currently being negotiated by the united kingdom.
in writing. - i do not support the uggias report on the allocation of slots at eu airports. the allocation of slots to air carriers is currently governed by regulation (eec) no 95/93. the mechanism provided for in the treaty has been suspended several times over the last decade. the 2009 suspension, which was due to the financial recession and the crisis in the aviation sector, had significant consequences in italy, leading to a de facto monopoly situation for alitalia-cai on linate. the text under vote contains a number of amendments to ensure that the mechanism for allocating slots continues to protect the free competition regime. but there is no provision for excluding any derogations, and that is precisely why i voted against it.
in writing. the new proposal for a regulation introduces parameters which would be too burdensome for airlines. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. moreover, the clause allowing for derogation from the application of this rule risks facilitating monopolistic positions, as was the case with alitalia - cai on the linate - fiumicino route. for these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. − the european union has been founded from the outset on the development of a common market as free and equal as possible. unfortunately, however, there are still pockets within the common market where various influences have prevented the free market from unfolding, and one of these concerns the european airport sector. this is why the management of airport take-off and landing slots needs to be improved, increasing the flexibility of their management and reducing distortions caused by external interference. the report we have voted on today goes in this direction: it is of great importance to regulate the allocation and exchange of landing and take-off slots between different carriers, by encouraging the exchange of unused slots and increasing the independence of slot coordinators from air carriers and airports.
in writing. − the european union is called upon to take concrete action to prepare for the future growth of air traffic: the number of people living in poverty is expected to double by 2030, with the greatest concentration in asia-pacific and the middle east. european airports are already congested and time slots are a valuable resource to be used in the best possible way. this report, which i support in its entirety, will enable us to review the current system of allocation of slots, by strengthening the mechanisms for allocation and use and ensuring their effective application, and by introducing the possibility of using the secondary market for slots. the report provides that slot allocation is to be managed by airport coordinators, independently of airport operators and airlines. in order to ensure maximum transparency, data relating to the sale of secondary slots will be published in annual reports and the proceeds from these sales will be used to improve services at airports.
in writing. − increasing air traffic has intensified pressure on available capacity at major eu airports. under the current legislation, airlines that have used their own time bands for at least 80% of the time during the summer/winter season are entitled to use the same bands during the same period of the following year. bands that are not sufficiently used are entrusted to the time band pool for reallocation . the regulation also allows airlines to transfer or exchange bands, but not to sell or buy them. an analysis shows that the current system prevents the optimal use of limited airport capacity, such as: abuse and late return of unused bands, barriers to entry and expansion of new competitors, lack of an eu framework for the secondary market and insufficient independence of band coordinators. i believe that in order to manage the limited capacity effectively, it would be appropriate to strengthen the systems for band allocation and not to increase the infrastructure in order not to harm the environment. i am in favour of the proposal to buy and sell time slots. however, i would stress the need for the secondary market not to jeopardize links with the main regional airports.
in writing. the leichtfreid report is based on the international civil aviation organisation (icao) estimates that the number of european citizens exposed to noise emissions from airports is set to increase significantly over the next few decades. i did not think i could support this text with my vote, because the measures identified in it and the way they are implemented will not be effective in achieving the objectives it sets out and will be highly counterproductive both for european industry and for the maintenance of socioeconomic balances. on the one hand, the european aircraft industry will be discriminated against in favour of production from third countries, and on the other hand the proposal does not assess the impact that further operational restrictions could have on the socioeconomic realities of our territories.
in writing. - the proposal contains the preconditions for a gradual reduction in the competitiveness of european airlines, mainly because of an article providing for exemption from the imposition of restrictions for aircraft registered in developing third countries. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. the same regulation would also prohibit night flights, which would cause serious inconvenience to shipping companies and their customers who would see deliveries of mail considerably delayed. for these reasons, i vote against.
in writing. − the adoption of additional noise abatement measures must be based on a systematic environmental monitoring and control process and a conservative approach, aimed at the early identification of necessary management and/or operational corrective measures. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted for it. air transport also provides citizens with mobility, and in recent years low-cost airlines have played an important role in making it possible to fly for a few hours for a few euros. the downside, however, is that our skies are clogged with planes, it is not uncommon for people to wait in line on the tarmac for their takeoffs, and entire neighborhoods near airports are living in nightmares and legal battles to stop commercial flights at night. by day, as well as by night, planes fly over homes and dump tons of spent fuel. the right of european citizens to a quiet and healthy life must not be at the expense of the freedom of movement of others. this balance has now been achieved by this resolution, which provides for a better distribution of take-off and landing areas by setting noise thresholds based on criteria such as health, economy and a balanced social approach. finally, it is right that the proposal to improve competition between companies operating groundhandling services at strategic airports has been referred back to the committee on transport: with at least 5 million passengers; it is an incentive to return to the debate on how to make airport services more competitive.
in writing. − noise is one of the main environmental impacts of airport infrastructure. the noise nuisance problems faced by local communities living near airports need to be addressed by measures to reduce nuisance. updating and optimising existing measures is part of the union's special responsibility with regard to noise pollution. in view of the continuing growth of the air transport sector, emphasis should be placed on the use of aircraft capable of providing state-of-the-art performance and on the development of airport infrastructure in line with traffic management needs. a balanced approach to the problem will also allow consideration to be given to the best relationship between achievable results and costs. i hope that the most appropriate measures will be identified to achieve the maximum environmental benefit at the lowest cost and that economic incentives will be considered if necessary. i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − this vote is part of the so-called 'airports package' and concerns the commission's proposal to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around eu airports, within the international framework of the icao's balanced approach to noise management. this balanced approach shall be applied consistently, focusing on reducing aircraft noise at source. land use planning and management, noise abatement operating procedures (such as the use of runways, routes or specific procedures) and operating restrictions.
in writing. − i support the scicluna report for the creation of a european statistical programme 2013-2017. the aim of this programme is to create a statistical system which will enable the community policies to be assessed more effectively through independent and high-quality data processing and to strengthen the role of the european statistical system at world level. i believe that having access to consistent and accurate data in a timely manner will make it possible to develop ever more effective policies at national and community level.
in writing. - in a context of economic crisis and measures to combat it, a high-quality statistical system would make it possible to better assess community policies. it is therefore necessary to develop consistent, accurate and transparent statistics to enable citizens to consult them, in particular online. for these reasons, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the implementation of the programme provides an opportunity to produce harmonised european statistics in order to contribute to the development, production and dissemination of common, comparable and reliable statistical information at union level. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − having reliable and reliable statistics at european level is also essential to prevent some of the glaring mistakes of the recent past. i am referring to the most famous case, that of greece, with the errors and falsifications which are at the root of the very serious situation we are in. a standardised system, as independent as possible, is necessary to avoid imbalances and variations in evaluation between member states and to ensure a uniform framework for analysis at european level. statistics are also used to formulate economic and financial policies, which then directly affect the lives of citizens, and should therefore not be underestimated or neglected. this report, which i have supported, provides for the drawing up of a five-year programme. from next year, 2013, we should be building on closer cooperation between eurostat and the various national statistical institutes, within a strengthened european statistical system, which we hope will at least avoid the gross and very serious mistakes of the past.
in writing. - statistics have always been a key element in the formulation of economic policies, so it is important to use great care in their development so that they do not undermine confidence between citizens and markets. to ensure high levels of quality and reliability of statistics, action on their integrity is necessary, including through the provision of tools to guarantee the independence and freedom of national statistical bodies. each state must ensure the independence of its statistical bodies and undertake to ensure the confidentiality of statistics. i also believe that european citizens should be allowed free access to statistical data: accessibility is the corollary of the principle of transparency. strengthening the current system to ensure the highest possible reliability of statistical monitoring is a priority and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to create a rigorous governance structure to ensure the integrity and quality of statistics in the eu. the commission, through eurostat, will continue to play a key role in coordinating with the european statistical system, publicly commenting on member states' practices and thus promoting a spirit of emulation. it is important to emphasize, then, that citizens will have free access to statistical data and it is therefore desirable that eurostat should take measures to make its data accessible and, above all, easy to use.
in writing. - i do not support the podimata report, the text of which considers authorizing the procedure for enhanced cooperation between 11 member states, aimed at introducing a financial transaction tax. i do not support the text because i do not think that the introduction of this tax in a limited number of member states would have a positive effect.
in writing. - mr president, the crisis that began in september 2008 has had a devastating impact on public finances and the economies of all our countries. european citizens, especially those on the lowest incomes, are paying the price. the financial sector is clearly responsible. today's vote recognises this responsibility and takes a step forward with the 11 eu countries agreeing to establish enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax. this is an important achievement, but the journey has just begun. there is no doubt that the other countries which are still opposed or hesitant to introduce this basic and minimal tax will now have to join the 11 countries which have led the way. in fact, it is ultimately a matter of promoting a little social justice by making those who are responsible for this situation pay a little. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this important report.
in writing. the financial transaction tax is the result of one of the battles in parliament to build a useful instrument to combat the crisis affecting europe. its entry into force, even if only in 11 member states, is of high value, considering the resistance that had to be overcome in order to introduce it in at least 9 countries (as provided for in the treaties). the european union's own resources are one of parliament's main assets. it considers it essential that the european budget be financed from european resources and not just from contributions from the member states. the financial transaction tax is one of these instruments. finally, in order to make this instrument more effective in its use, i believe it is necessary to accompany it with initiatives aimed at strengthening cooperation between the states on the methods of application and the methods of regulation.
in writing. − following the ecofin of 22 june 2012, which highlighted the impossibility of reaching a unanimous consensus on the commission's september 2011 proposal on the taxation of financial transactions, 11 member states requested the initiation of the enhanced cooperation procedure in this area, as provided for in the eu treaty - title iv. i decided to abstain on the podimata resolution on the authorization of enhanced cooperation because i do not agree with the acceleration that is being applied to the dossier, especially since the content of the legislative proposal that the european commission might present in the framework of enhanced cooperation is not known. i think the debate under way is useful, especially in terms of: generating new tax revenues for the eu; to combat speculation; avoid distortions of competition and the risks of double taxation arising from the application of national taxes in an uncoordinated manner. on the other hand, however, a thorough and careful evaluation of the best instruments for achieving these objectives is essential if we are to avoid the tobin tax becoming a boomerang for our economies.
in writing. - today in plenary we voted in favour of mr podimata's report, which gives the green light to the procedure for introducing a financial transaction tax (ftt) in 11 eu countries, including italy, in order to discourage excessive risk-taking in the future and to impose greater liability. the text stresses that the ultimate aim remains the introduction of a global ftt and calls on the eu to continue its efforts in this direction. the 11 eu member states which will participate in the enhanced cooperation procedure are: italy, austria, belgium, estonia, france, germany, greece, portugal, slovakia, slovenia and spain. together, they account for around 90% of the euro area's gdp. the council must now give its consent by a qualified majority in order to launch the procedure once and for all.
in writing. - i believe that the report by mrs podimata, to authorize enhanced cooperation in the field of the financial transaction tax, is a practical and necessary instrument to encourage the exit from the crisis. although a small group does not support this action, the existing coalition is already a positive sign and the enhanced cooperation, from the eleven currently involved, may be extended to other member states in the future. the financial crisis has been going on for five years, but now the creation of a common system can no longer be postponed and work must begin on the introduction of a financial transaction tax as soon as possible in order to meet the costs of the crisis in time. the financial transaction tax will be 60 times less than what citizens pay, but it will still send a message of justice to european citizens and help to ensure a fairer burden sharing.
in writing. the commission adopted a proposal for a council directive on a common system of taxation of financial transactions (ftt). i believe that in this connection it is important that all the states commit themselves to enhanced cooperation, as this will allow efforts to be directed towards the conclusion of an itf agreement at world level. the harmonization of the itf rules in the territories of the participating member states would encourage the introduction of this tax in the non-participating states. this is a tax which can generate a substantial revenue, which is necessary for the states in this difficult situation. this will help to avoid putting the cost of the crisis on the shoulders of the citizens, and will help to create a stronger and more cohesive single market and greater financial stability. for the reasons i have just given, i am voting in favour.
in writing. - following the failure to reach agreement among the 27 member states, it was decided to initiate enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction taxation, which, in addition to the european parliament's free hand, also requires the approval of the council by a qualified majority. while i am in favour of mrs podimata's text, which, on the basis of an analysis of the legal bases, approves the enhanced cooperation on this matter, i have some doubts about the distortive effects that the introduction of a financial transaction tax at eu level could have if it were not also applied at global level at the same time.
in writing. − the union has rules on the protection of animals during transport, which aim to remove technical barriers to trade in live animals while ensuring a high level of protection. i agree with the rapporteur that the uniform application of animal welfare rules is crucial to maintaining a high level of animal welfare and to avoiding distortions in the market. i am concerned about the commission's report on the state of implementation of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 because the data cited in it, which come from the member states and are not verifiable, may not fully reflect the reality of the facts, as different methods and control tools are used in each member state. the commission report finds serious shortcomings in the application of the rules in some member states. i therefore support the need for further measures to achieve better harmonisation in the context of their application and, in particular, the need to take action to establish uniform control mechanisms and penalties. i would ask the commission to consider the introduction of monitoring bodies to monitor compliance with the provisions on the protection and welfare of animals, including during transport.
in writing. - i support the wojciechowski report on the protection of animals during transport. i agree with the measures proposed to the commission in this respect, in particular the reference to the limitation of the transport time to not more than 8 hours and the suggestion to set up a network of local slaughterhouses with which, on the one hand, to promote rural areas and, on the other hand, to reduce distances and, with them, the suffering suffered by animals in the course of transport.
in writing. - considering that improving the efficiency of animal transport will have positive consequences in various areas, such as, among others, the reduction of co2 emissions, the development of 'local butchers' which will contribute to regional economic development, the transport of animals under more dignified conditions, the unification of community legislation in this field, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the protection and welfare requirements of animals during transport, insisting on more controls and prevention as sentient beings. i believe that animals should be slaughtered as close as possible to the place of production so that better quality can be guaranteed to consumers, in line with the '8hours.eu' petition, which calls for the introduction of a maximum limit of 8 hours for the transport of animals for slaughter. it would also be important to introduce improvements in particular with regard to the available space, such as the calculation of the kilogram per square metre ratio for the transport of horses. finally, i believe that the distance factor is important in ensuring a competitive balance both in the internal and external markets, by promoting the development of farms and consumption also at regional level, taking into account the particular disadvantaged geographical situation of the peripheral regions.
in writing. − member states must strengthen controls throughout the chain in order to eliminate practices that violate the regulation and worsen the conditions for the transport of animals: for example, allowing overloaded vehicles to continue to circulate or allowing control posts with inadequate facilities for feeding, watering and resting animals to continue to be used. my vote is in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the wojciechowski report on the protection of animals during transport because i agree with its structure and its focal points. in particular, i agree with the emphasis on the need to implement and strengthen the current community legislation in this area, including through the provision of proportionate and dissuasive penalties, and the indication that slaughter should take place as close as possible and the call to review regulation 1/2005 in the light of recent scientific data published by efsa on the need to improve the conditions under which animals are transported. i also voted with conviction in favour of the call to introduce a limitation on the transport time of animals for slaughter, which should not exceed 8 hours, taking into account loading times. this indication had already been brought to the attention of the committee i chair, having been the subject of a petition to the european parliament and supported by more than one million citizens.
in writing. i have supported this resolution which reaffirms, after the adoption of written declaration no 49, the need to limit the transport of animals for slaughter to eight hours. mahatma gandhi said that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way it treats its animals. we must do everything in our power to alleviate their suffering. our call for measures to reduce transport times for animals, including the creation of an eight-hour limit for the transport of animals for slaughter, demonstrates our commitment to their welfare. it shows that we are a union of states that wants to progress morally. the number of animals transported within the eu increased significantly over the five-year period 2005-09, up to 70% in the case of pigs. one third of these death journeys take more than eight hours. at least the last hours of these animals' lives are not suffering or torture.
in writing. - i have decided to vote in favour of the report by mr wojciechowski on the protection of animals during transport, as it suggests to the commission a number of measures to be taken for the welfare of animals during transport. in fact, there is a clear reference to the petition "8hours.eu" (signed by over a million eu citizens), it is emphasised that animals are sensitive beings, the need to manage the transport of animals both inside and outside the eu more effectively and the possibility of having local slaughterhouses which in addition to promoting rural areas reduce the distances to the slaughterhouses with the consequent reduction of co2 emissions. as regards control systems, a navigation system is introduced to monitor animal transport by collecting data via satellite navigation and the key role of retailers, catering companies and food manufacturers in ensuring, in their internal quality standards, the origin of meat from animals raised and slaughtered locally and transported under welfare conditions is emphasised.
in writing. − there is a growing interest not only in public opinion but also in the european institutions in the welfare and protection of animals during transport. this increased sensitivity is partly due to modern scientific knowledge that tells us that animals are sentient beings that feel emotions and partly because animal welfare is closely related to the safety of the food that they produce. the transport phase should be subject to greater uniformity. i would like to stress in particular the major problems in the transport of live animals, due to irregularities in the documentation, excessive load density, malfunctioning or even the absence of the watering system and other devices provided for in the means of transport. in order to ensure that the conditions for transporting animals are improved, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. − the uniform implementation and application of animal protection rules is crucial to maintain a high level of animal protection and to avoid market distortions in the european union. in some member states, for example, there will still be serious shortcomings in the application of the rules. the overall number of live animals transported increased significantly in the period 2005-2009. new measures are therefore necessary to protect the welfare of these animals, including slaughter animals. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's position that, in order to protect the welfare of animals during transport, he suggests the development of an objective and reliable assessment system and the adoption of measures vis-à-vis the member states to ensure a comprehensive and uniform monitoring of compliance with the animal control provisions.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against the report because it is a completely uncritical reproduction of the positions which have unfortunately been entrenched for some time in the european institutions, which see the concerns and needs of all the expressions and sensitivities of the most diverse and disparate minorities as prevailing, with complete disregard for the rights of peoples. as a follower of guy héraud's ethno-federalist teaching, my approach to the matter starts exactly from the point of reference represented by the rights of peoples, convinced as i am - as silvius magnago rightly observed - that europe is an extraordinary mosaic enriched by differences, peculiarities and traditions. all this is regularly ignored, as our ethno-cultural identity is trampled underfoot and threatened even in its primary expression, the linguistic one. it is not by chance that i tabled a number of amendments aimed at specific protection for the use of one's own language, the effective implementation of the right of ethno-linguistic minorities to access local, national and european radio and television programmes, and the urgent implementation of measures to block the process of homologation of minority cultures that is under way, with the clear political consent of those who are currently leading the european union.
in writing. − this final report on the state of fundamental rights in the european union, covering the two-year period 2010-2011, highlights critical aspects and positive aspects. the protection of fundamental human rights still has a long way to go, as at present several eu countries have to make some progress in developing and recognising a number of rights and freedoms. clearly, this process has not been facilitated by the worsening economic crisis, which has caused certain aspects to be put on the back burner, in the face of the much more pressing need arising from the lack of much more tangible goods. nevertheless, i believe that political action today is pointing in the right direction. i therefore share and support the recommendations contained in the report and i hope that there will be greater synergy between the european and national institutions to remedy the most critical and difficult situations.
in writing. − the effective protection and promotion of rights must be a general objective of all eu policies, including in their external dimension. moreover, the fulfilment of the duty to protect, promote and respect human rights does not require the conferral of new competences on the eu, but rather a proactive institutional commitment to this issue, so as to develop and strengthen a genuine culture of fundamental rights within the institutions of the union and in the member states. my vote is in favour.
in writing. − the situation of fundamental rights in europe has improved since the last report, but there are still important objectives to be achieved. families, children and women, together with the elderly, are the most vulnerable groups for which the commission must maintain a high level of political attention. i therefore supported the recommendations for action to help children, who are often innocent victims of direct or indirect violence. i have approved the pro-women's amendments, for example against female genital mutilation, against honour marriages - of course, even in our golden and civilized europe, they were adopted! - against domestic violence. i have, however, opposed those points in the text where, once again, this parliament takes the opportunity to cascade in a single vote the uncustomization of ideological positions concerning procreation, of all too casual interpretations of the concept of the family or to relativize the right of a child to have a mother and a father. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore abstained from the final vote.
in writing. - i have decided to vote against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2010-2011) by mrs flašíková beňová, as it calls on the council and the commission to commit themselves to member states to do more to implement legislation protecting the roma and ensuring family reunification for immigrants from third countries.
in writing. - the european parliament has always been an actor in the process of protecting human rights. in my view, europe's role is an integral part of the political and decision-making processes involved in the adoption of treaties with third countries aimed at promoting fundamental freedoms. i believe that monitoring and political accountability can be further implemented to ensure the impact of eu legislation on fundamental rights. in order to preserve the credibility of the eu, it is essential to ensure that democratic institutions function and operate in accordance with europe's fundamental values. respect for human rights must be the primary objective of the union's future action, in particular by vigorously defending them in peace-building and in all agreements concluded with third countries. i hope that future eu strategies will ensure greater coherence between the different eu human rights policies.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to greet all my colleagues, commissioner kroes, vice-president of the european commission, the representative of the council, mrs kozakou-marcoullis, and, in a particularly affectionate way, i would like to greet our former colleague, mr stavros lambrinidis, who is here today in this chamber, where he has been many times in the past years, including chairing our session, but who is now the european special representative for human rights. give stavros lambrinidis a big hug from the bottom of my heart. the agenda includes, for joint debate, the report by leonidas donskis, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2011 and the european union's policy on the matter (2012/2145 ((ini)) ((a7-0377/2012), and the report by rui tavares, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the review of the eu human rights strategy (2012/2062 (ini)) (a7-0378/2012).
mr president, mr lambrinidis, dear colleagues, i would like to draw your attention to amendment no 2 to the annual report on human rights in the world. it concerns the western sahara. signed by 96 colleagues, it condemns the ongoing repression of the sahrawi people in the occupied territories and demands the release of all sahrawi political prisoners. last year this parliament, by adopting a similar amendment, achieved an important success in the field of human rights. for this reason i strongly believe that we should not miss the opportunity to reiterate our support for a fair and lasting settlement of the western sahara issue on the basis of the right to self-determination of the sahrawi people. the rights of the sahrawi are those of us all. in the same amendment we ask for full access to the occupied territories for independent observers, ngos and the media. we call as well for the establishment of an international mechanism to monitor human rights in the western sahara. in this way we will contribute to putting an end to the last case of colonial oppression in africa.
mr president, i think the reports are very good. but we must become increasingly aware of the need to place the question of human rights in a broader context. we generally act mainly ex post facto, we make resolutions, condemnations and recommendations, but we must make much stronger the demand for preventive action on an international scale. we must define new guidelines here, for example, where constitutional processes are being formed in many countries, i am thinking of the mediterranean. that is where the decision is made at this moment, that is where we must act now so that we do not have problems later on with regard to human rights. finally, there is a further need to keep in mind the need to link human and civil rights with issues of economic and social rights. i 'd say more like: the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and the european parliament in particular are very concerned about the protection of human rights, both the right to live in one's own country and the right to practise one's religion freely. alas, the world is going through some very difficult times. i think, because today there was an important conference, to those iranian exiles who are in iraq, in camp liberty and camp ashraf, who are beaten and beaten every day, and they try to prevent food from reaching them. this is incredible, it is also incredible because many european countries are there on a peace mission, and yet there has been no peace. we are also present in other realities, and yet christians are being slaughtered, and the followers of other religions are being slaughtered, and this is unacceptable. i ask the european union and parliament in particular to press for serious and strong sanctions, not war, but real, real and tangible sanctions, when certain countries allow their governments to kill, massacre, kill and take away the rights of people.
thank you for the report. we'll notify the appropriate agencies.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. we must express our assessment of what has happened in the last few days and, above all, define some guidelines beyond the important chronological reconstruction of the events. the outcome of the current transition in egypt will affect the balance of the whole region and, of course, the difficult situation following the truce with israel and palestine. our presence through the task force has been and is very important. however, the actions taken by the egyptian president have caused quite a few problems with the democratic process and have provoked the right reaction of the opposition. i think we should be very clear, not meddle, but be very clear. it is not possible to imagine that the democratic transition in egypt will be achieved through handshakes. above all, there can be no majority logic whereby the winner has the absolute right to decide - take care - not just on government policies, but on democratic rules and the constitutional process. in this context, we cannot but say that the constitutional text is extremely flawed and conservative and that it does not represent the whole of egyptian society. we must work to ensure that dialogue prevails and that it is really possible to manage the transition phase by ensuring a neutral role for the armed forces. egypt cannot go back and the european union, starting with the commission, must have a much stronger presence on this because, even before the united states, europe has every interest in egypt peacefully defining its democratic path.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the intentions of president morsi and the muslim brotherhood are now clear: a draft constitution giving a predominant role to the shari'a as the source of law and a decree by the president himself that would put it above the law. muslim brotherhood leader mohammed badie has declared that his organization does not recognize israel and that jihad is a duty for all muslims, waiting for the right moment to take up arms against the west. the democracy of the so-called arab spring, which europe hoped for, is taking an increasingly authoritarian turn in egypt. the winners are not the young people and women of tahrir square, who fought for the rule of law and social justice, but islamist forces interested in destabilizing the entire region. we must take note of this situation and radically revise our policy of unconditional support for a democratic transition which is proving to be increasingly illusory and full of contradictions. more for more, as commissioner füle wants, and aid for genuinely democratic forces in egypt that really want renewal.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you that under the oslo accords all disputes, including those on settlements, should be resolved through direct negotiations between the parties. the settlements are not the only and main cause of the conflict, as it is true that the attacks on israel began more than 50 years ago, in the west bank area, when there was not even a settlement in palestine. a fundamental problem is the refusal, to this day, by the palestinian authority, the hamas terrorists and the majority of the arab states to recognize the legitimacy of israel to exist as a jewish state. without recognizing that the problem is not only territorial but also one of legitimacy, a stable and lasting peace will not be achieved. on the question of the territories, it would be interesting, very interesting, to hold a hearing to hear experts and lawyers from both sides on their different positions and thus to have more insight, more information on that historical, legal and whatever else is behind the israeli-palestinian issue.
mr president, the israeli government’s announcement that, in response to the un vote on palestinian statehood, it is to expand the settlements in the west bank sends the message that it has no respect for human rights and international law. settlement construction is the cause of forced displacement and a myriad of human rights violations. in addition, this new plan for settlements in the e-1 area could bisect the occupied west bank, potentially cutting palestinians off from jerusalem and the fatah movement and reducing their hopes for a contiguous state. we must remember that article 49 of the fourth geneva convention prohibits an occupying power from transferring its own civilian population into the territory it occupies. for this reason, i endorse the important council statement of last monday, according to which all eu agreements with israel must unequivocally and explicitly indicate their inapplicability to the territories occupied by israel in 1967, namely the golan heights, the west bank including east jerusalem and the gaza strip.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that i was surprised once again by the nature, at least in part, of today's debate and the latest discussions in parliament on issues concerning relations between israel and palestine. we are for peace, we have always explicitly stated our aims, we have always had great respect for the state of israel and we know how many times it has been the object of aggression, of violent acts against the state structure as well as against its citizens. but we must not hesitate to take action which calls into question the already precarious relations which exist and thus distances us from the prospect of peace. we must be very clear in our judgment, condemning and opposing actions such as those which have been the subject of discussion in these days. fear or hesitation of any kind is not helping the peace process in any way.
member of the commission. − madam president, i said a lot at the beginning. let me make only four short remarks. firstly, the contributions we have heard show this house’s interest in and commitment to eu-ukraine relations. i am sure this will also be heard in kiev. second, for me the way ahead is clear: the european union’s firm commitment to pursuing political association and economic integration with ukraine now needs to be mirrored by determined action and tangible progress by the ukrainian government and parliament. my third point concerns the vilnius eastern partnership summit in november 2013: what an appropriate time and place to sign a document as important as an association agreement with ukraine. what an appropriate time and place to address both the current challenges in the eastern partnership and future opportunities, including the future of the eastern partnership and the role of the european perspective in that regard. my fourth point is that i have no doubt that the association agreement is going to strengthen both ukraine and the european union. i have no doubt – and you emphasised this in your statements – that the association agreement will become a powerful transformation tool that will benefit ukrainian citizens. that is the name of the game: to share with ukrainians the same values, the same commitments to democracy and the rule of law, and to share the same european future.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the 2012 progress report on albania.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am grateful for this opportunity to exchange views with you today on albania’s prospects in relation to the european union. i believe that the resolution that you referred to sends the right message to albania by both acknowledging the hard work done so far and strongly encouraging all political parties and other stakeholders to remain focused on european integration and on the reform process. like the european parliament, the commission also regards albania’s future as being closely linked to the european union. we are ready to stand by our recommendation on granting candidate country status, but albania will have to deliver. we will report to the council as soon as necessary. progress has been achieved, including looking into the efforts made in the area of the rule of law. with your support, i am confident that enlargement will remain a strong and credible policy with the rule of law at its centre, to the benefit of the citizens of albania and all the enlargement countries as well as the european union.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, integration within the european union can only result from significant efforts at national level and from collective commitment. above all, albania needs to ensure a stable and constructive political dialogue. the high level of support among albanian citizens for european integration is a significant basis on which its political leaders can build a common platform in the interests of the country as a whole. let me conclude by highlighting the remarkable progress albania has made over the past year. it has demonstrated political will and delivered concrete results in bringing about much-needed reform. i am confident that this high level of commitment will continue and that we will see further positive developments during 2015.
i have received a motion for a resolution. the minutes have been tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2012. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the discussion of statements by the council and the commission on eu preparations for the possible influx of asylum seekers from syria.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago we were honoured to receive the nobel peace prize as the european union. some media, some parties, some intellectuals have, however, ridiculed this prize. is the european union really capable of guaranteeing world peace? the syrian situation raises this question every day, not only because of the increasingly bitter conflict between assad and the rebels, but also because of the management and solution we want to deal with the 500,000 syrian refugees - at least according to un figures - who are fleeing the war. a first step was that, as the european parliament, we extended the union's priorities for the asylum and migration fund to syrian refugees in the world, which was approved last monday in the libe committee thanks to an amendment of mine. but that is clearly not enough. we need a comprehensive political strategy between all the countries affected by syrian refugees, and in particular between all those countries in the european union where refugees, men and women, fleeing war, could arrive. it is also clear that without the european union this strategy cannot be activated, without any member state being left alone to face possible mass displacements of women, men, children, adults and the elderly, and without real solidarity between member states. i am therefore pleased with the resources made available and the regional programme set up for the protection of refugees and asylum seekers and all the other instruments that commissioner malmström has spoken to us about this evening. the activities of ngos working in this field will probably also need to be further developed. we have a few hours before the nobel peace prize is awarded, and we have the test to see whether this prize is a prize for the past and for internal borders or whether this europe is really capable of playing an active role for the future and in the most critical world scenarios. it is up to us to give a concrete follow-up to a prestigious ceremony.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you all for this important debate. i fear it is not the last debate on syria. we all see the horrible pictures from that country, and of course now that christmas is approaching, we know that so many civilians – so many children – will not be able to spend christmas in peace over there. we also know that a solution is not around the corner. i know that the international community and the ministers yesterday in the foreign affairs council have been trying to work on a political solution. but of course, as many of you have said, it is not obvious that this will appear at any moment. now the neighbourhood countries, as all of you say, are doing a fantastic job. they are sheltering all those people under quite decent conditions, considering the pressure that they are under. we are in contact with them and seeing how we can help, and yes, of course, we will mobilise more funds, we will mobilise more help, more assistance to the four countries in the neighbourhood who are dealing with the people who arrive there. we are working on this regional protection programme, as i said. this is more of a long-term strategy, and it is not going to alleviate the pressure immediately. however, it is an important part of a long-term solution, because whatever happens in syria, we will need to have a long-term plan for it. i speak almost daily with the unhcr, and my colleague mrs georgieva is also extremely engaged in this, in order to get an update. for the moment, there is not a lot of pressure on the european union. people want to stay in the neighbourhood. what we have asked of the member states is that those non-syrian nationals – palestinians, iraqis and so on – who are on a list from the unhcr could be resettled in europe. i have encouraged member states to join the international community and to resettle some of these people. it is also very important to consider those who are already in the european union. so far the majority of people coming to europe have gone to germany and sweden, not to the southern borders of the european union. this could of course change, but for the moment, the majority are in northern europe because there have been syrian minorities or diaspora there for a long time. we have encouraged member states to use the family reunification directive, so that people who have family members who are already in europe could apply and then be given a visa, whereupon they could be brought safely to their relatives in sweden, denmark, germany, switzerland, etc. via easo, we are talking to all the member states to see how prepared or unprepared their systems are to receive greater amounts of asylum seekers from syria. of course some of them are in better shape than others as is well known. we know of the difficulties facing greece. we have many times debated what we could do to alleviate the situation in greece and to help them to build up a proper system. as you know, we are now – as are many of you – engaged in finalising the negotiations on the asylum package in the hope that we will have a harmonised high-standard asylum policy in the european union. of course, that is also not for tomorrow, but it is important for the long-term statute here. i have called upon all the member states not to send back syrians. this seems to be the practice in member states, not to send them back. we have also said that they must be given access to the asylum system when they come, should they want to ask for asylum. now this is the situation today. as we all know, it could change very dramatically tomorrow. i will not hesitate, together with the unhcr, to organise a big pledging conference for resettlement, should that need appear. we also know that we could activate the temporary protection directive but that is still not the case. the directive states very clearly that we are talking about very big numbers of asylum seekers. twenty thousand is not a very big number in 27 countries. we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people. that could be the case, and that will have to be debated, but it will require the consent of member states. for the moment, i can tell you in this very closed assembly, that the appetite is not huge. i very much agree with all of you who have referred to the very recent events in norway, when the european union received the nobel prize. that gives not only honour for the past, but also for the future. it is very important that we stand up and show solidarity towards the people who run away from the horrors in syria, that we show solidarity towards the neighbouring countries, towards each other in the european union, and that we give those people shelter, while at the same time working with the international community and with all the member states to try and find a political solution to this horrible crisis. thank you very much for this debate, and i promise you that, from the commission side, i will update you regularly on every development in this area, on how we see the situation, and on how we plan for different events.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, our debate this evening has shown that parliament shares the concerns of the council about the deteriorating situation in syria and the problems that this is creating for civilians in syria and the surrounding region. we agree on the need to continue to address the humanitarian crisis arising from the conflict. that means ensuring that the humanitarian assistance we are providing to persons displaced in syria itself and to refugees in the neighbouring countries is sufficient to meet their needs. it also means showing solidarity to syria’s neighbours that are affected by this crisis. member states need to provide international protection for refugees from syria where appropriate, and to continue to monitor the situation closely in order to be prepared for the possibility of a large-scale arrival of refugees from the region in the european union. as already indicated the council is constantly following the situation in syria and is kept regularly updated of the relevant developments by the external action service, the commission, frontex, as well as the international organisations working on the ground, in particular unhcr and iom. the european asylum support office is also continuing to monitor developments relating to syria. the council will likewise continue to monitor progress made with regard to the establishment of a regional protection programme which could help in the medium and long term to find lasting solutions for the area and consequently to reduce the risks of increased migratory pressure on the member states. should the deterioration of the situation justify it, the council stands ready to adopt any measures necessary to address in particular the increase of migratory flows towards the eu member states. we also agree on the need to look for solutions in the medium and long term by establishing a tailor-made regional protection programme for syria. i am grateful to you for your support for the action which has already been taken to address the issue of migratory pressure as a result of this crisis. the european union and member states will continue to provide humanitarian assistance and address the wider effects of the crisis. we will be monitoring developments closely and stand ready to report further to you as the situation develops.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner reding, this week has been marked by a distinctly broad reflection, debate and vote on the question of the protection of human rights. there is no doubt that there is still a clear gap between the provision for the protection of fundamental rights and their effective protection. this is precisely the area in which we should be moving. this is a week in which we have seen important events, starting with the awarding of the nobel peace prize. peace and culture are linked in practical terms to a fundamental need, namely to widen the range of themes that the agency can deal with. we have noted that the council did not share the same view on police and judicial cooperation. we believe that, at a time when the european parliament is deciding to set up the special committee against mafias, corruption and money laundering, there is a need to acquire also significant information that the agency could provide. at the same time, we must not forget that other areas are also taken into account by the agency, including the disabled, the protection of victims of crime and the fight against discrimination on grounds of gender, language, religion and sexual orientation. what is more important today than ever is real and genuine access to justice, justice which must be combined with certain time limits and fundamental rights which must be guaranteed by the programmes and the work of the agency, but also by a framework of reference which is the one we are dealing with today. i think that the work of mrs ždanoka deserves support and that is why i believe that parliament can give further impetus to the question of judicial and police cooperation so that it can finally be included in the agency's areas of competence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for the sense of responsibility which mrs ždanoka has shown to her colleagues and to all the shadow rapporteurs in bringing the work on this report to a conclusion and in asking parliament to vote on it, despite her expressed dissatisfaction at the failure to obtain an extension of the mandate - i call it that - for the agency. i found the debate this morning to be in some parts overly partisan and instrumental. the agency is a support body, an assistance body for the eu institutions and for the member states, to which they can turn when they have a problem with the application of community law in relation to fundamental rights. with lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights of the union has become an integral part of the treaty material on which we must draw our inspiration. i am aware of this fact on a daily basis as chairman of the committee on petitions, since citizens turn to me to ask me to comment on the correctness of the institutions' conduct in the exercise and respect of fundamental rights. i believe that the agency's support in terms of information, study and in-depth study of the whole range of fundamental rights, in which we have included our action by transposing the charter of fundamental rights, is very important. i also believe that this mandate, which is implicit in the approval of the multiannual plan, cannot and should not be seen as restrictive. what we should be inspired by is the programme contained in the articles of the charter of fundamental rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president of the commission, today we are having the classic debate which always animates us in situations like this. renewing the agency's action, especially in times of crisis like the one we are going through, always brings with it the same question: is it right to spend new resources, maintain both physical and functional structures and stabilise constraints, sometimes interference and institutional conflicts? we are again reflecting this morning on whether to renew the european union agency for fundamental rights for the next multiannual framework and whether this is right or not. one thing we can say for sure: the judicial cooperation that this agency establishes is a good and right thing, especially in the field of fundamental rights which are so sensitive to our european institutions. moreover, we clearly cannot afford to block the multiannual framework, risking to stop or at any rate limit the work of an institution which intervenes in the field of racism, the protection of minors, asylum and against discrimination of any kind for the protection of justice and the participation of citizens. these are too important and too dear to us to stop and not give our consent. i know that in many member states there are institutions or agencies which work very well and have the same field of action, but the purpose of the european agency is precisely to be able to coordinate better what is happening in our member states and to improve the existing gaps, it is the possibility of comparing data and seeing how some phenomena develop globally in order to be able to give answers with appropriate policies. sure, that comes at a cost, but what doesn't? i think it's really important to move forward and then calmly evaluate the results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr hoang ngoc has already mentioned that an article appeared in the financial times on tuesday which i consider to be a remarkable example of intellectual jesuitism. the author is the vice-president of the european commission, olli rehn. it contained sentences such as these, and i quote in english: "a country may receive extra time to correct its excessive deficit", or "we also intend to accommodate public investment in our assessment of national fiscal plans", and again, "we must we must pursue prudent fiscal consolidation". the reader reads and thinks: well, perhaps, even in subtle movement, something is moving, some doubt has crept in about the effectiveness of austerity policy, and it's not. in classical rhetoric, a greek term was used, aprosdoketon. it was a stylistic process that raised an expectation in the reader which was punctually disappointed in the conclusion of the article and in fact vice-president rehn tells us: "in short, we need to stay the course". you'd expect to change course, but it's to stay the course. here the reference to jesuitism makes sense. in the european conservative establishment, a debate is under way similar to the one that divided the jansenists, known not by chance as "rigorists", and the jesuits between the 17th and 18th centuries. today, as then, the strict jansenists may feel that even rehn's cautious jesuitism risks underestimating the gravity of the sin of the debtor countries and fuelling laxity. well, if that's the case, let's get out of the ideological-religious debate about austerity and take a third way: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the elderly, such as the introduction of a new system of social security, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly, the introduction of a new system of social security for the disabled, and the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out to the commissioner that there are two problems in this crisis situation, among the many that have been mentioned, but which i find particularly dangerous. in the face of the lack of growth we often emphasize the problem of employment, pointing to the decline in employment as the main phenomenon, but forgetting the increase in poverty, which is becoming a real emergency for many areas of community europe. poverty is so dangerous because we have introduced an american phenomenon that we did not know but which has also arrived here, which is that of poor work. women in particular are now in a position to have a productive activity, a working relationship, and to be unable, with the income they derive, to cross the poverty line. i believe that this is the main problem among the negative effects of lack of development and therefore deserves special attention and specific policies.
in writing. − due to shortcomings in certain areas, such as respect for economic, social and cultural rights; the weakness of the monitoring mechanism as regards the rights of disabled persons; the inclusion of a specific chapter on the roma, a group which is known to refuse to be included in host societies, at the expense of other issues, such as those mentioned above, was not my vote.
in writing. - i believe that written statements are a tool which could potentially have a significant impact on issues considered important, also in order to raise public awareness of the issues dealt with by parliament. the proposed amendments will ensure that a greater number of written statements are followed up, and that the necessary number of members are supported. i also believe that the rules governing them should be changed so that they can only be proposed in cases where they have an impact on union legislation. for the reasons just given, i vote in favour.
in writing. − i strongly support this report because it stresses the need for the eu to act consistently to enhance the effectiveness of its human rights policies and to be a credible actor in external relations. in particular i am happy about the significant victory achieved by all human rights supporters with the adoption of the amendment on western sahara. in this amendment we condemn the ongoing repression of the sahrawi people in the occupied territories, demand the release of all sahrawi political prisoners and ask for a lasting settlement of the western sahara issue on the basis of the right to self-determination of the sahrawi people. the rights of the sahrawi are those of us all and once again this parliament showed its commitment to end this blatant violation of international law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2011 and on the european union's policy on the matter, because i believe it is essential not to accept the report in its entirety. strengthening the instruments for the promotion of human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy by cooperating closely in the implementation of a human rights policy in the world is the preeminent role to which the european union is called. the proper functioning of civil society and the development of a democratic and rights-based community is a long-term process that must be achieved from below and requires national, regional, local and international support. the political dialogue on human rights between the eu and third countries needs to include a more inclusive and comprehensive definition of the concept of non-discrimination on the basis of factors such as religion, personal beliefs, sex, race, ethnic origin, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity. the recent award of the nobel peace prize to the eu should not be seen as a milestone but as a first step which further encourages decisive action in the field of human rights, both now and in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr donskis’s report on the european union’s policy on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2011 for a number of reasons. the report highlights the importance of international humanitarian law (ihl), and particularly urges the eu to take a stronger stance in implementing ihl and considering it when entering into bilateral agreements with third countries. not only is it important that the eu respect human rights, but we should do everything possible to ensure that basic standards of human rights are upheld in countries throughout the world, which the report directly encourages. additionally, i support the inclusion of women’s rights in the report, as establishing human rights relies upon establishing equal rights between the sexes.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. in the wake of the arab spring, it is important to develop a coherent and diversified eu policy on transitional justice in addition to strengthening the independence of the judiciary, including linking with the icc as a court of last resort, in order to help countries in transition address past human rights violations, fight impunity and prevent the recurrence of such violations.
in writing. − the european union must commit itself to promoting and consolidating the values of freedom, democracy, development and respect for human rights, the values on which it is founded, through political dialogue and cooperation with third countries. i therefore voted in favour of mr donskis' text, expressing the hope that the union will continue to play its leading role in defending human rights in the world by making effective, consistent and reasoned use of all the instruments at its disposal to ensure the promotion and protection of democratic systems.
in writing. - i support the tavares report on the review of the eu's human rights strategy. i agree with the rapporteur's proposals, the revision is based on the fundamental principle of respect for human rights in all european and member state policies. i think it is essential to recall the passage in this text in which the high representative and the commission are called upon to implement a european neighbourhood policy by applying more consistently and more strongly the principles of 'more aid for more commitment' and 'less aid for less commitment'. third countries in which there is a clear lack of progress on the rule of law should see less support from the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution because we know that the european union is founded on the principle of respect for human rights and has a legal obligation, laid down in the treaties, to place human rights at the centre of all the policies of the union and the member states without exception, as well as at the centre of all international agreements. member states and third countries must implement concrete measures to ensure that human rights remain at the heart of these policies. the promotion of human rights and democracy is a joint and shared responsibility of the eu and its member states, but only coordinated and consistent action by both sides can achieve results and make progress. we unanimously agree that every human being should enjoy the universal human rights and freedoms enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, regardless of circumstances or situations, religion or personal belief, sex, racial or ethnic origin, age, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity.
in writing. − the eu's human rights strategy has repeatedly demonstrated its effectiveness and readiness to act in addressing problems related to this sensitive issue. however, as this report points out, it needs to be updated and revised, also in the light of the latest historical and social dynamics (e.g. the arab spring) in order to be able to continue to be effective and efficient. it also requires greater interinstitutional cooperation and greater coordination between the member states on policies relating to the subject.
in writing. - my vote is in favour. i agree with the rapporteur that it is essential to identify country-specific priorities, realistic objectives and forms of political influence in order to make eu action more effective and achieve measurable results. national human rights strategies must be integrated into the eu's common foreign and security policy and trade and development policies.
in writing. - development, democracy and the rule of law: these are the bases from which the european union must start to protect the ideals of democracy and respect for human rights. i therefore express my vote in favour and would like to stress the need for more effective action to support human rights activists in europe and in third countries, especially those who are threatened or forced to live in fear on a daily basis because of their work. i would like to conclude by stressing the need to include 'enforceable and non-negotiable' clauses on human rights in agreements between the union and third countries.
in writing. − i abstained on voting on this report because, although i support the need for the eu to enjoy a strategic relationship with russia and i praise the pragmatic view of this text, i cannot support a report which characterises mr khodorkovsky as a hero. whoever considers him a martyr of freedom is the victim of a blatant disinformation. mr khodorkovsky was one of the biggest oligarchs in russia during the nineties. his bad reputation is well established in his country and elsewhere, but he is still a rich man with a lot of capital deposited abroad. with this money, as some of us meps know from personal experience, he can pay the bills of prominent lobbyists and well-known public relations companies. this led to a shameful pro-khodorkovsky campaign in this parliament to which we must put an end.
in writing. - in voting on the swoboda report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for the new eu-russia agreement, i abstained. i consider the need for greater commercial interdependence in eu-russia relations to be fundamental, but i cannot hide my concern at the deterioration of the situation of respect for human rights and democracy in the russian federation. russia can be a great trading partner for the eu, but it is necessary to insist on a strengthening of the dialogue on respect for human rights, the union's founding value.
in writing. - we must cooperate with russia to ensure that it takes responsibility for improving stability, political cooperation and economic development in the common neighbourhood and to stress the sovereign right of each country to choose its own foreign policy and security arrangements. at the same time, we must be firm in calling on the russian authorities to put an end to the widespread climate of impunity for human rights violations and the absence of the rule of law in the north caucasus.
in writing. - i congratulate mr swoboda on his work. in the report adopted today, parliament, in the light of the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the russian federation, of the other part, which entered into force on 1 december 1997, reiterated that russia can only become a strategic partner for the european union if it begins to share and promote the democratic principles and values recognised by the 27 member states. to achieve these objectives, it will be necessary to continue and even strengthen the eu-russia talks, which will lead to the conclusion of a new and more precise pact of alliance and cooperation. finally, parliament rightly called on russia to take more seriously important issues such as impunity, endemic corruption, politically motivated persecution, arrests, detention and economic modernisation.
in writing. − the development of the european union's common foreign and energy policy, in line with the principle of conditionality, should include russia as a strategic partner, provided that the fundamental values on which the union is founded are shared and upheld, including democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. this vote will ensure that a new agreement provides a comprehensive, forward-looking and legally binding framework for the further development of relations with russia in the coming years, taking into account the need to make efforts to strengthen cooperation in all areas where eu and russian interests may coincide, while promoting european interests and values in areas where interests diverge.
in writing. the text by mr swoboda concerns the european parliament's recommendations on the negotiations for a new eu-russia agreement to replace the existing partnership and cooperation agreement in force since december 1997. the aim of this agreement is to build a closer relationship with russia, based on common core principles and values. the text stresses the need to strengthen dialogue with civil society and all the main political actors and to ensure the functioning of an independent and impartial judicial system in order to put an end to impunity in the country. the report rightly also points to the state of degradation of the development of civil society in russia, especially in the light of the recent adoption of laws on demonstrations, ngos, defamation and legal regulation of the internet.
in writing. − i strongly support this resolution because it condemns the israelis’ plan to proceed with the construction of 3 000 new settlement units in the west bank and east jerusalem. we must bear in mind that, if implemented, the announced plans will undermine the viability of the two-state solution, with special regard to the e1 area, where settlement constructions would divide the west bank in two, potentially cutting palestinians off from jerusalem and rendering the creation of a viable, contiguous and sovereign palestinian state impossible. israeli settlements in the west bank and in east jerusalem are illegal under international law. for this reason, with this text we call for an immediate, complete and permanent freeze of all israeli expansion activities. we cannot remain passive when israel keeps on violating human rights and international law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the israeli government's decision to expand settlements in the west bank. this decision is not only illegal under international law but also makes it impossible to establish a sovereign palestinian state with territorial integrity, as provided for in the 1993 oslo agreements. it is therefore a stone in the road to two peoples, two states, and it is a serious obstacle to any attempt at peace and increases tension in those areas. i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the matter. finally, i hope that a solution will be found soon to the pretextous decision of the tel aviv authorities to withhold $100 million in palestinian tax revenue, which is detrimental to the pa budget. i hope that europe will once again make its voice heard, loudly and decisively, in order to reaffirm the 'two peoples, two states' solution and to achieve the cessation of all conflict and the stabilization of the entire area.
in writing. - we must reiterate our support for a two-state solution based on the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital of both states, the state of israel and an independent, democratic, contiguous and self-sustaining state of palestine, coexisting side by side in peace and security.
in writing. the choice of the israeli government to expand settlements in the west bank, and especially in the e1 area, between the settlement town of ma'aleh adumim and east jerusalem, has raised unanimous disagreement. the international community's condemnation and the european union's disappointment are motivated by the catastrophic consequences that would result. this is a decision that would prevent the creation of two separate states, and expansion in that area would isolate east jerusalem from the rest of the west bank, threatening the future of the palestinian state in that territory. europe firmly supports the idea of the development of the two states. this would create a balance in support of lasting peace and security. i hope that an active european role can bring about a revival of these tormented territories, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − i agree that the eu need to establish closer political and economic ties with ukraine, but i cannot give my vote to a text which asks for the freeing and political rehabilitation of mrs yulia tymoshenko. i support the demand for a fair trial for mrs tymoshenko, but i dissent from a text which makes the assumption that the former prime minister of ukraine deserves to be supported as if she was a champion of freedom and justice in her country. she was and is just a very questionable politician, already arrested for corruption and seen negatively by most ukrainians.
in writing. − the ukrainian government must, together with all political parties, remedy electoral irregularities, including inconclusive results in some constituencies.
in writing. - i express my sincere concern about the situation in ukraine due to the human rights violations and the total lack of transparency which characterised the recent electoral consultations. cooperation between the european union and ukraine cannot continue in the absence of the reforms needed to establish a genuine democratic state. europe has committed itself to supporting ukraine on its path towards democracy. the commitment will only be continued after the mortifying violations of freedom of expression in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity have ceased, as they constitute a clear violation of the european convention on human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. i cannot help but draw attention to the disparity of treatment, the intimidation and irregularities in the counting of votes which characterized the voting process. i believe that europe can, through effective action, provide an incentive for future reform processes, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it reiterates our full support for albania’s future accession to the european union. as the commission’s assessment underlined, the country should be granted candidate status without further delay. in this past year indeed, albania engaged in the adoption of key reforms in the judiciary and public administration. with this text we praise the developing dialogue between the civil society and the albanian government and call on all the albanian political forces to continue to adopt concrete reforms leading to tangible results for the benefit of all citizens. nevertheless, we urge the albanian authorities to take further action to ensure the real independence, integrity, transparency and efficiency of the judiciary as this is a key element for a complete european integration
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr chountis' report on albania's progress towards eu membership, as i believe that he has taken due account of the commission's assessment that albania has met four of the 12 priorities, is on track to meet the other two and has positively recognised these results. as stated by the general affairs council last monday, i welcome the constructive role that albania continues to play in the region, but i would stress the need to intensify further efforts, particularly in the field of judicial reform in order to strengthen its independence, efficiency and accountability, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the protection of all minorities and the implementation of reforms. the successful conduct of the 2013 parliamentary elections will be a crucial test for the proper functioning of the country's democratic institutions. sustainable political dialogue and sustained engagement in all priority areas will be essential to implement the reforms needed for albania's european future.
in writing. − there has been limited progress in reforming the judicial system. the authorities should therefore be urged to take further measures to ensure the effective independence, integrity, transparency, accountability and efficiency of the judiciary and its freedom from political interference and corruption, in order to guarantee citizens' fair access to the courts, to ensure that trials take place within a reasonable timeframe and to accelerate progress in the implementation of the strategy for reforming the judiciary.
in writing. − the european parliament recognises that the political dialogue with albania so far is an important factor in achieving progress on the 12 priorities set by the eu with albania. parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations were not jeopardised by the threat of a military coup in iraq. finally, the improvements made by albania in the protection of minorities - although effective protection against domestic violence, forced prostitution and trafficking in women and children is still lacking - and the slight improvements made in the unemployment situation were highlighted. in addition, the balkan government was recommended to undertake reforms on the rule of law and to deepen the issue of property rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of granting candidate country status to albania on condition that the main reforms in the judicial system and public administration are completed and adopted. it is also essential that the albanian government commits itself to guaranteeing freedom of the media and respect for human rights. i would like to stress that all political parties and actors in albania, including the media and civil society, must work in the near future to improve the political climate in the country so as to allow for that dialogue and mutual understanding which are indispensable in the path to accession to the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the crisis in the steel sector because i believe it is essential, especially at a time of crisis, to ensure the safeguarding of sectors which are the engine of the eu economy. the steel industry is facing major challenges today, made inevitable by the current crisis and by increasingly fierce competition from third countries with less stringent environmental regulations and cheaper access to raw materials. it is essential that the eu protects more highly technological sectors, ensures the employment of workers and enhances their skills. it is a priority for the commission to plan a competitive and long-term industrial policy. this would ensure a level playing field and stricter social and environmental standards. it is also important to develop a concrete and well-defined action plan, as well as the introduction of quality certification for steel products, to strengthen the industrial sector and avoid relocations which are counterproductive for the eu-wide economy. support measures for workers in all establishments at risk of closure are a priority for safeguarding employment in the eu.
in writing. the steel industry is going through a period of deep crisis, as are other economic and industrial sectors. the eu can do much to safeguard a sector which, including the industry, provides employment for hundreds of thousands of citizens. i therefore agree with the commission's proposal to draw up and implement a new plan for the steel industry, so as to encourage its competitive practices and support it in the long and difficult process of recovering from the crisis.
in writing. − a competitive european steel industry is the backbone of development and value creation for many important industrial sectors, such as automotive, construction and mechanical engineering. the commission must therefore give careful thought to medium- and long-term initiatives to support and preserve the steel industry and its industries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, hoping that europe would finally react to the crisis in the steel industry. in recent years, if not decades, there has been a steady decline in steel production at european level, not so much because of a decrease in demand, but because of unfair competition, especially from asia, which offers materials at very low costs. this is because elsewhere the economic and social rules laid down by the european union are not respected, and the consequence is that more and more establishments are in danger of closing down and leaving thousands of workers at home. the steel industry has been the basis of the economy and development of many areas that revolved around it: the case of piombino is a clear example of this, and i am pleased that it has been explicitly mentioned in this report. the situation in the tuscan city is very serious, as i pointed out in this chamber last month: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must defend its steel: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the commission and the council must develop a new policy for the steel industry that stimulates growth and employment in the context of the economic crisis and is compatible with the health and safety of all eu citizens, as well as its residents.
in writing. - in a difficult period like the one we are going through, the european union must strongly support its industrial base if it is to return to growth. this is why it is important to support the steel sector, which has been particularly affected by the economic crisis. to counteract the negative trend of recent years, it is therefore necessary to give serious thought to the introduction of measures to promote a purchase price for energy above the current average. there is therefore a need to create a more effective industrial policy for the eu, one that is aware of global challenges and able to safeguard our production fabric, even in the face of fierce competition from outside europe.
