president of the commission. − mr president, the questions were in fact all addressed, understandably, to the prime minister and the acting presidency of the council. the right to answer those questions is a privilege i will not take away from her. let me use this minute to reiterate the need to concentrate this semester on supplementing our important efforts in terms of fiscal consolidation with growth-enhancing measures. i believe the danish presidency will be a very effective partner in this matter, in delivering pragmatically, in trying to find solutions. prime minister, you have heard parliament and i think we can say that there is broad support in this parliament for your programme. you can count on this parliament. you can also certainly count on the commission. we can therefore make this semester not a semester of more empty announcements and delay, but a semester of decisions and concrete implementation. we wish you all the best.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, leaders of the political groups, honourable members of this house, thank you very much for your remarks. it has been a real pleasure to take part in this lively debate that we have had today. what i take away from the debate today is a clear conviction that, yes, not all of us agree – i will come back to that – but also a solid and robust confirmation that we have support for the danish presidency programme and i thank you for that. we will do everything we can to live up to this support. many topics have been raised. time is limited, but allow me to address a few of the issues that you have raised. mr barroso and mr daul raised the question of the mff. we will be very serious in dealing with this during the danish presidency. i can assure you that it will be a top priority for the danish presidency to get as far as we can in terms of the multiannual financial framework. we will do that with the purpose of modernising our financial perspective and in such a way that we can use our common resources to create new jobs and new growth. in this context let me also make a remark on the financial transaction tax, which has been raised by mr callanan and others. i want to raise this to avoid any misunderstandings. the danish presidency will handle this dossier in a loyal and professional manner and as an honest broker. i am tempted also to draw attention to the wider agenda of the financial regulation, which we will intend to strengthen in our presidency. many have raised the question of hungary, namely mr verhofstadt, ms harms and mr moraes. as everyone knows, there is a debate on hungary taking place in the plenary later this afternoon. let me be brief: the commission plays a vital role as a guardian of our treaties. they have found grounds for initiating an infringement procedure on at least three counts against hungary. we must of course take that very seriously. we are in full support of the way the commission has handled this crisis. they have used what everyone is talking about today, the rules that we have, the treaties and – let us be clear – the community method. we are behind the commission in this. all member states are under the obligation to abide by our laws. that is an integral part of the way we do things in the union. many have addressed the debt crisis. the downgrading of a number of european member states underlines the need for european answers in this crisis but, before everyone decides that this is a crisis of europe, i would like to remind this house that the reason why we have a debt crisis in the european union is because member states have not watched their own budgets. this is at the core of why we have a problem. we need to focus on european solutions, but let us not forget that the reason why we have an economic crisis is because the member states did not abide by our rules. this takes me to the downgrading of some of the member states. mr verhofstadt referred to the wording and quoted, i believe, standard and poor’s. i have also noted what standard and poor’s are saying, because they were specifically referring to the lack of growth and employment perspectives in the european member states when they downgraded the countries. what they said was not said by a social democrat or the european left. standard and poor’s said that austerity also has to be followed up by growth initiatives. (applause) that brings me to the discussion about growth and employment. many have touched upon that – mr swoboda, ms harms, mr søndergaard, ms turunen, mr bendtsen, mr johansson and many other speakers. let me state very clearly that the european economies must consolidate. they need to do that and, for that reason, the danish presidency and denmark will support the fiscal compact. but let me also be very clear that it is not enough to focus on consolidation alone. we have to give a push in the right direction to growth and employment. young people all across europe are expecting that from us. we need to create european jobs now. i agree with the speakers who have suggested we go back to one of the biggest successes that the european union have had over the years: the single market. it is the internal market that has created growth and employment. that is why we want to finalise the work of the single market. therefore the president of the european council and i have agreed not to forget the issue of growth and employment. that is why we have agreed that at our meeting on 30 january 2012 we will emphasise this point and make sure that, not only do we discuss consolidation, but we also discuss growth and employment. this is what we want to do. many of you have mentioned the energy efficiency directive. mr turmes mentioned this as rapporteur and i appreciate that. i can only repeat and stress to you that, if we want to see clear results on the green agenda, we must make haste. this is an opportunity. we have a european parliament that wants to do that and we have a presidency that wants to focus on that. let us make it happen over the next six months. we can only do that if we all cooperate. (applause) many of you have addressed the question of european unity and the community method: mr daul, mr rohde and others. let me be clear, what sets europe apart is our commitment to solidarity with each other, to our unity as a union, but also to our commitment to the community method. i know that if citizens across europe are listening to this debate, they will look at us and ask what is this community method? what do they mean by the community method? i will state today that it is still worth defending because what the community method really means is that europe is no longer ruled by the strongest, but that europe is now ruled by law and democracy. friends, that is worth defending. (applause) it is worth defending not only for the smaller member states but for all of us. the community method and european unity must be an overarching goal for our endeavour. with your help, dear former colleagues, friends, honourable members of the european parliament, let us make it happen, let us work together and let us produce some tangible, real results for our european citizens. i am convinced that we can do that. if we do, we will also create a path out of the european crisis to a more prosperous future. (applause)
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate denmark on taking over the polish presidency of the european union and wish it every success. indeed, denmark faces a number of tasks of major importance for the future of the european union. this is both the practical implementation of the european project for an enhanced economic union and the further negotiation of the new multiannual financial perspective for the eu (2014-2020). denmark will have a huge task to push these negotiations forward. i am pleased that denmark, in view of the fact that this year is the european year of older people's activity and solidarity between generations, intends to pay particular attention to increasing the employment of older people. i appreciate that denmark, in its programme, not only talks about the elderly but also about young people and their preparation for the future labour market needs, not only about the present but also about the future employment problems. in addition, particular attention is paid to reducing the number of young people who are not in school. it is a pity, however, that the presidency's programme does not mention issues of vital importance to people, such as the maternity leave and the anti-discrimination directives, which have been on hold for over a year now. the future of both of these pieces of legislation has already been asked by the danish presidency when the member states plan to find a common solution with a view to adopting these important directives as soon as possible, and it would be very interesting to hear what concrete action the presidency intends to take on these two issues.
in writing. − colleagues, 2012 is a very important year for europe, which will have to provide a credible and sustainable solution to the sovereign debt crisis. i think the proposed fiscal pact is a step in the right direction, but we must not lose our vigilance. the truth is that no treaty can end the crisis. if the eu legislation currently in force had been properly implemented and properly complied with, there would be no need for additional legislation or more stringent agreements. our prospects are still bleak. according to business monitor international, lithuania's public debt is expected to reach 43% of gdp this year (compared to 15,6% in 2008). i very much hope that non-euro countries will be able to participate in the negotiations on equal terms. indeed, most lithuanians are sceptical about adopting the euro in the face of the debt crisis that threatens the survival of the euro area. a poll last month showed that 49 percent of lithuanians oppose the euro, while only 43 percent support it. lithuanians will not be satisfied with this long-term contract. they also need concrete and urgent measures to deal with the crisis in the near future.
mr president, i have not seen mr orbán’s government calling for an occupation of wall street in budapest. what we are taking about is improving the governance of the central bank to achieve more transparency and accountability in cooperation with the government. the independence of banks should not be misinterpreted as inaccountability, especially in view of their role in recent financial bunga-bungas. we should not serve the corporate interest of bankers. the solidarity of democracy should prevail over the solidarity of banks. therefore i call for cooperation, not an arbitrary confrontation. one special point: in my country, lithuania, the eurosceptics always try to compare the unfortunate soviet union – which was no union – with our true union of democracies. we european politicians in lithuania have consistently refused to accept any such mistaken parallel. now it will not be easy to avoid comparisons with 22 years ago when lithuania adapted her own independent constitution and was pressured by the kremlin’s ultimatums to denounce it. there then followed political and economic sanctions, a blockade and finally bloodshed. the commission was ill advised in using the word ‘sanctions’ when addressing hungary on its alleged serious infringements. our suggestions to hungary should not take the form of diktats from commission experts, using parliament as merely a tool to take action against disobedient member states. this would create a very serious situation, more serious even than being forced to live under a communist-era constitution for a considerable length of time.
the author. − if we speak of the european union as an association of equal states, then this is the policy of equality that we should consistently pursue. direct payments to farmers producing agricultural products in the european union cannot be 2, 3 or even 4 times different, because it is precisely these differences that program problems that will never bring us to a balance in the food supply chain. costs in the food production and supply chain are increasing for a variety of reasons: increased requirements in phytosanitary, animal welfare, environmental, hygiene and food safety, all of which are the same in all member states. however, the different levels of payments in the european union countries push food producers into a situation where fair competition is not possible, as in mars. another important issue to be addressed is that the food market is currently dominated by large distribution companies and that prices paid to farmers in the food supply chain are constantly being lowered. meanwhile, production costs continue to rise. farmers do not receive sufficient income from their produce, and large commercial monopolies make huge profits at the expense of farmers. the large difference between the price paid to farmers and the final price paid by consumers, as well as the lack of transparency, the disparity in the competitive conditions and, in some cases, the abuse in the food supply chain, make it unprofitable to engage in agricultural activities and put farmers' survival at serious risk. i believe that the first task for the commission and the member states today is to ensure that the rules of competition, operating on the basis of the principle of equal treatment, are respected at all stages of the food chain, both at the level of the suppliers and at the level of the consumers.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. food waste has reached such levels that it can be considered a global problem. since the 1970's, the world's population has increased by over 50 percent. food is wasted everywhere - in the fields during harvest, in the processing industry and, most importantly, in the homes of consumers. in this unholy rivalry, europe and north america are undeniably the leaders. people on both continents waste up to 115 kg of food per person per year. in the european union alone, the figure is even higher. according to the european commission's statistics, the average european throws away 179 kg of food, which amounts to some 89 million tonnes of irreversibly wasted food per year. it is not overproduction of food, as is commonly believed, that is the main cause of food waste and consequently of hunger, but poor stock management and misguided marketing strategies aimed solely at maximizing profits. however, the biggest impact on waste growth seems to be the use of a single 'use by' date on the labels. manufacturers should be encouraged to include two particulars, with one additional: 'use for'. the term 'use before' refers to the quality of the product, while the term 'use after' refers to its safety. this will help consumers make informed choices and, most importantly, prevent food that is still fit to eat from being thrown away.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which is a technical adjustment to the provisions on airport transit visas. as indicated in the submission, this adjustment will not change the practice of eu member states. the european parliament's present report therefore only proposes technical amendments, since the amendment to the regulation provides for the exemption from the requirement to hold an airport transit visa for third-country nationals who hold a valid visa or a valid residence permit issued by a member state which does not (yet) apply all the provisions of the schengen acquis (united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria and romania). the european parliament considers that such an adjustment is logical, as it is pointless to check a person who already has a visa or residence permit again if this person has already been checked before and has been found not to pose a risk of illegal immigration. in addition, the proposal should also reduce the administrative burden on member states.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i consider it inappropriate and unnecessary to repeat the control procedures on a third-country national who already has a valid visa or residence permit, since it has already been established during the initial check that he does not pose a risk of illegal immigration. in addition, in order to ensure legal certainty and transparency and the effective application of the provisions on airport transit visas, the exemptions from the requirement to hold an airport transit visa must be clearly and unambiguously laid down and applied in accordance with strict requirements. it is also very important to underline that the new provisions of this regulation will benefit not only individual travellers and air carriers but also member states, as they will reduce the administrative burden.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the european union (eu) and georgia have concluded an agreement aimed at mutual protection of geographical indications for a wide range of agricultural products such as cheese, oils and fats, bread and bakery products, fruit, vegetables, fresh meat and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wines, alcoholic beverages and beer. the agreement between the two parties fulfilled the commitment contained in the partnership and cooperation agreement, which entered into force on 1 july 1999, and which was conditional upon georgia's accession to the world trade organisation (wto) in 2000. this agreement will be mutually beneficial. the eu should help ensure that some 820 food geographical indications, 1 930 wines and 320 alcoholic beverages (from 23 member states) registered in the eu will be protected in georgia, which is of great benefit to eu agricultural production. the only geographical indications of georgia are made with wines (18 geographical indications), as viticulture is one of the oldest areas of specialization in georgia, having a significant impact on the entire economy of the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation as the european union (eu) and georgia have concluded an agreement aimed at mutual protection of geographical indications for a wide range of agricultural products such as cheese, oil and fats, bread and bakery products, fruit, vegetables, fresh meat and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wines, alcoholic beverages and beers. this agreement is comprehensive and consistent with the commitments undertaken under the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights. as indicated in the european parliament's recommendation, the parties agree on the criteria and procedures for the registration of geographical indications in their territories, as new geographical indications may be added if neither of the two parties objects, and a joint committee will be set up from both parties to monitor the implementation of the agreement and to improve the conditions for bilateral cooperation in the field of geographical indications. given that agriculture in georgia is a typical livelihood sector, on which half of the population of georgia depends for their livelihood, this agreement is of particular importance for georgia.
in writing. − i support the eu-georgia agreement on the protection of geographical indications for agricultural and food products. this agreement will be mutually beneficial. the eu will protect 820 geographical indications for foodstuffs, 1 930 wines and 320 alcoholic beverages registered in the eu. although georgia does not yet have any geographical indications related to food products and the 18 registered indications relate only to wines, it should be noted that the list of mutually recognised geographical indications will be able to be completed in the long term. i believe that the agreement will help georgia to diversify its export markets further. currently, georgia exports mainly to the russian and other cis markets, but exports of mineral water, wine and food products to the eu markets are also gradually increasing. the agreement should reinforce this growth trend and also help georgia to fully integrate into the global trade-related framework for the protection of intellectual property. the conclusion of the agreement on the protection of geographical indications is one of the steps towards the conclusion of a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement between the eu and georgia. i hope that the dcfta negotiations will be launched shortly. further strengthening of trade relations between the eu and georgia is one of the key objectives of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is of the utmost importance for both parties to reach an agreement that will ensure adequate protection of geographical indications for agricultural and food products. it should be noted that the provisions of this agreement will help to ensure that eu registered geographical indications are properly protected in georgia, while at the same time the characteristics and quality of agricultural production are properly assessed. it is also of great importance to note that adequate protection will also be extended to geographical indications in georgia related to wines. i believe that the recognition of geographical indications for georgian wines will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the sector and the agricultural economy, as well as promote the export of agricultural products. i believe that this agreement is a major step towards a wider eu-georgia trade relationship. it is also a great opportunity for georgia to negotiate and conclude a substantive agreement with the eu on a key trade-related aspect, including technical commitments.
in writing. − i think it is appropriate and very important to join the unece rules which set uniform standards for motor vehicles worldwide. this will ensure an appropriate level of protection in the areas of road safety, environmental protection and trade. it is also important to note that the integration of this rule into the eu type-approval system for motor vehicles and its effective application will remove many bureaucratic obstacles and create favourable competitive opportunities for european industry.
in writing. − the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) forum for the harmonization of world vehicle rules (wp.29) provides a common framework for globally harmonised vehicle rules, with participants from all over the world, in particular the major motor vehicle manufacturing countries. the benefits of such harmonised rules are felt in the areas of road safety, environmental protection and trade. currently, 126 rules have been agreed under the unece framework. the european union has currently acceded to 106 unece rules, of which it has decided to make 62 binding on the eu. two new draft rules have been put to the vote at ece level: one on pedestrian safety and the other on led power supplies. i support the position of the european union (the commission negotiates with the unece on behalf of the eu) as these unece rules will allow many countries to apply the same standards, reducing red tape and allowing european industry to compete more easily and on a wider scale.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as ensuring a high level of pedestrian protection requires uniform rules not only in the eu but also globally. the light emitting diodes shall be uniformly fitted to wheeled vehicles after the entry into force of these regulations. it is also important to note that standardised requirements will remove technical barriers and ensure a high level of safety and protection of vehicles.
in writing. - i voted for this document. international air links between member states and third countries have traditionally been established by bilateral air services agreements. in 2002, the court of justice of the eu ruled that national appointment clauses in bilateral agreements were in breach of eu law. they shall allow a third party to refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisation or the authorisation of an air carrier designated by a member state but not majority owned by that member state or its national entity and not effectively controlled by them. this was seen as discrimination against eu air carriers which are established in one member state but owned and controlled by another member state. the commission has negotiated an agreement to replace certain provisions in the existing 19 bilateral air services agreements between the eu member states and indonesia. the aim of this agreement is to ensure that all eu air carriers can benefit from air routes between the relevant eu member states and indonesia without discrimination and to prohibit anti-competitive activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation as the agreement between the european union (eu) and the government of the republic of indonesia on air services aims to ensure aviation safety, avoid discrimination against eu air carriers and ensure compliance with competition rules. in particular, in order to avoid discrimination against eu air carriers, the national designation articles listing the air carriers of the member states that have signed the bilateral agreement are replaced by an eu designation article listing all eu air carriers. this article aims to ensure that all eu air carriers can benefit from air connections between the relevant eu member states and indonesia without discrimination. as regards safety, the agreement provides that the safety provisions of bilateral agreements are to apply in cases where the regulatory control of an air carrier is exercised by a member state other than the one which has designated that air carrier. third, the agreement prohibits anti-competitive activities. the purpose of this agreement is therefore to extend the rights of member states to indonesian air carriers wishing to operate within the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation, which seeks to bring the provisions of the eu-indonesia air services agreement into line with eu law and to remove existing inconsistencies. the new provisions will provide more favourable conditions for eu carriers and will give them the right to enjoy air services between the relevant eu member states and indonesia without discrimination. i also support the proposal to give member states the right to apply a fuel tax to indonesian airlines wishing to operate within the union.
in writing. − the objective of the memorandum of cooperation is to shape and strengthen relations and cooperation between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao). it was signed in montreal on 28 april 2011 and in brussels on 4 may 2011 and has been provisionally applied since then. the icao was established by the 1944 chicago convention as a specialized agency of the united nations. its 190 current member states cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, aviation security, air traffic management and environmental protection. most icao standards and requirements are taken into account in eu legislation or even substantially transposed into european law (e.g. aircraft environmental standards). the eu therefore has a strong interest in contributing to the icao policy-making process, in particular with a view to the competitiveness of its own civil aviation industry. i supported the conclusion of a memorandum which will ensure greater harmonisation of standards, better coordination of the relevant actions and better use of limited resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support its main objective to strengthen aviation security, especially civil aviation. the specific objective of this communication is to endorse the conclusion of a memorandum of cooperation between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation (icao). the memorandum of cooperation aims to achieve greater harmonisation of standards and better coordination of relevant actions, and also to make better use of limited resources and avoid duplication of action while preserving the integrity of both parties. this memorandum has already been provisionally applied since 4 may last year. the icao was established in 1944 and today its 190 member states cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, aviation security, air traffic management and environmental protection. most icao standards and requirements are already reflected in eu legislation or even substantially transposed into european law, and the eu has a strong interest in contributing to the icao policy-making process. this would also increase the competitiveness of the civil aviation industry in the european union.
in writing. - i support this resolution on the memorandum of cooperation. i believe that the european union and the international civil aviation organisation need to work very closely together to achieve full harmonisation of standards and better coordination of certain actions in the field of safety. it is also important to note that the eu has a great opportunity to draw on icao's expertise and strengthen its position in this global organisation. the mou will also facilitate the use of limited resources, while avoiding duplication of effort and ensuring the highest level of aviation safety worldwide.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important directive. it aims to contribute to sustainable production and consumption, in particular by preventing waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) and by reusing, recycling and otherwise using that waste in such a way as to reduce waste disposal, increase resource efficiency and recover strategic raw materials. this directive also aims to improve the environmental performance of all operators involved in the life cycle stages of eee, such as producers, distributors and consumers, and in particular those operators directly involved in the collection and treatment of waste eee. the different application of the producer responsibility principle in different countries leads to a substantial variation in the financial burden on economic operators and to the impossibility of an effective waste management policy due to the different national strategies for the management of weee. i agree that the essential criteria should be set at union level and that european standards for the collection and treatment of weee should be developed.
in writing. − electronic waste, if not properly disposed of, poses a risk to both the environment and human health. on the other hand, due to the rare elements they contain, they are also a relatively readily available substitute for expensive resources imported into the european union. the fact that this document has been negotiated for so long shows that the issue is indeed relevant for the consumer, that the manufacturer is responsible for the assembly. the directive finally adopted today will establish both a clear framework for the management of such waste and, more importantly, will encourage some member states to take a more serious look at the existing disorder and lack of transparency in the electronic waste sector.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that we must do everything we can to prevent the spread of waste electrical and electronic equipment and thus contribute to sustainable production and consumption. it is essential to encourage consumers to also actively contribute to the collection of such waste by returning weee. in addition, distributors, municipalities and operators of recovery facilities have an important role to play. the development of common european standards for the collection and management of weee is also essential for efficient and environmentally sound waste recycling. it should be noted that the inadequate management of waste electrical and electronic equipment, in particular if it is landfilled or incinerated, can have a significant negative impact on the environment. implementation of the provisions of this directive will therefore ensure an adequate level of protection of human health and the environment.
in writing. - i voted for this document. biocidal products are necessary for the eradication of organisms harmful to human or animal health and organisms which damage natural or manufactured products. directive 98/8/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 1998 concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market ('the directive') establishes a harmonised system for the authorisation and placing on the market of biocidal products and for the establishment and regulation of the list of active substances authorised for use in biocidal products. the provisions of the directive require that, seven years after its entry into force, the commission draw up a report and submit it to the council. the review of the application of the directive has shown that the simplified procedure provided for in the directive has no real impact on the evaluation of active substances, in particular those used in low-risk biocidal products, and that the data requirements and provisions on the non-requirement of data may be unclear or inconsistent or, in certain cases, may be disproportionately burdensome. the new regulation aims to improve the existing regulatory framework without compromising the high level of protection of the environment and human and animal health, to ensure the free movement of biocidal products on the union market and to reduce the administrative burden on companies and public authorities.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament is taking another step towards ensuring that consumers are properly informed about the substances used. among the many welcome provisions of the regulation adopted today is the provision of comprehensive information to the consumer on the biocidal products in the product. on the other hand, the authorisation procedure provided for in the regulation fills the gaps in the regulation of chemicals left by the adoption of the reach regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the placing on the market and use of biocidal products must not have any direct or indirect undesirable effects on human and animal health or the environment. i believe that harmonised rules on the supply and use of biocidal products are necessary to improve the functioning of the internal market. i support the proposal that for reasons of legal certainty and transparency, active substances should continue to be included in an annex to the regulation rather than in a separate document which is not included in the regulation. since biocidal products can present serious risks due to their specific properties and uses, it is essential to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that, with the rise in the prices of agricultural resources, the best possible optimisation of agricultural production processes and improvement of resource management is needed. i think this would not only allow farmers to reduce costs, increase their independence and their income, but also move towards a more sustainable and consumer-friendly way of farming. for example, energy consumption has increased by around 60% over the last decade, while the purchase prices of agricultural products have increased by only 25%. this report therefore proposes measures to increase the capacity of farms to save energy in buildings, farming, transport and invest in renewable energy production on the farm or on site. another area where management could be improved and thus savings made is the use of fertilisers and soil improvers. improving the analysis and management of nutrients used on the farm through better soil fertility analysis and management. another way of increasing the efficiency of agricultural production is proposed in the report: instead of using certified seeds on farms, the use of preserved seeds on farms should be chosen. such seeds have many economic and ecological benefits: they cost on average 40% less, allow farmers to grow crops adapted to the specific agronomic conditions of their regions, often require less fertiliser and at the same time preserve plant biodiversity.
in writing. - today we are talking about issues that cannot be dealt with one by one. the rise in food prices, associated with the increase in the cost of production, is just the tip of the iceberg. however, by looking at the issue in a complex way and taking complex actions, we could reduce these costs while achieving other positive outcomes. i am talking in particular about the economical and efficient use of resources linked to production - energy, fertilisers. changing the attitudes and habits of producers themselves would not only save resources and reduce costs, but also contribute to environmental conservation reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the release of chemicals into soil and water.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is only through joint efforts that we can help farmers to reduce costs in order to increase their independence and income. in addition, an efficient supply chain for the farm's production materials will contribute to a more efficient and sustainable use of production resources. it is worth noting that the pressure on the cost of raw materials is constantly increasing due to the shortage of resources, the increasing demand for food and the limited access of eu farmers to cheaper feed on the world market. it is therefore essential to ensure that farmers receive the appropriate support to match agricultural and environmental performance with the new climate, environmental and economic challenges. i believe that the research framework programme should devote more resources to research and technological development on the efficient use and management of agricultural production materials and to improving the efficiency of agronomic methods. at the same time, closer cooperation between the public and private sectors and farmers' organisations should be promoted at eu level. in order to increase farmers' purchasing power, they must be encouraged to organise collectively the storage and purchase of production materials and to form groups to better manage resources and apply sustainable farming practices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important resolution. employment in the food supply chain, agriculture, the agri-food industry and distribution accounts for 7% of total employment in the eu and is worth €1.4 trillion a year - more than any other manufacturing sector in the eu. recent fluctuations in food and commodity prices have raised major concerns about the functioning of european and global food supply chains, and increased uncertainty about farmers' incomes and long-term investment. the income problem for farmers continues to deepen and the price consumers pay for their products is not reflected in the price farmers pay for their production, thus preventing farmers from investing and innovating. this may lead to the decision of most farmers to abandon agriculture, further slowing down the economic recovery across europe. i agree with the resolution that agricultural policy must enable small and medium-sized farms, including family farms, to earn a decent income, to produce sufficient quantities of food of appropriate quality at affordable prices, to create jobs, to promote rural development and to ensure environmental protection and sustainability. in addition, given the dominant concentration and abuse of market power, national and european competition authorities must take active action against the abuse of buyer power by dominant wholesalers and retailers, which systematically puts farmers at a very disadvantage in negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because of the recent volatility in food and basic commodity prices, the growing concern about the functioning of european and global food supply chains, and the increased uncertainty about farmers' incomes and long-term investment. in addition, the income problem for farmers continues to deepen and the price consumers pay for their products is not reflected in the price farmers pay for their production, which prevents farmers from investing and innovating, which may lead to the decision of most farmers to leave agriculture. the imbalance problem in the food supply chain is therefore of european importance and requires specific measures at european level. attention should be paid to the fact that agricultural policy must enable small and medium-sized farms, including family farms, to earn a decent income, to produce sufficient quantities of food of appropriate quality at affordable prices, to create jobs, to promote rural development and to ensure environmental protection and sustainability. the european parliament therefore calls on national and european competition authorities and other regulators of production and trade to take action against the abuse of buyer power by dominant wholesalers and retailers, which systematically puts farmers at a very disadvantage in negotiations.
in writing. − there are several weak links in the food supply chain that need to be addressed more seriously. while the consumer's interest in safe products is already, so to speak, protected by the various legislation on product labelling, the price-fixing aspects are not yet favourable to either the consumer or the producer. one of the elements of eu competition policy is the regulation of entities in a monopoly or dominant position, ensuring the functioning of the free market. on the other hand, such regulation should not lead to a return to the days of price regulation. i therefore support the resolution in principle, but i think that there is still a long way to go before legislation is adopted in this area.
in writing. - i support this resolution because only joint efforts can eliminate imbalances in the food supply chain. in particular, it is necessary to ensure fair and transparent relations between food producers, suppliers, processors and distributors and to establish an effective regulatory mechanism. it is essential that farmers are paid fair and profitable prices for agricultural products and that the highest profit margins for large trading centres are established. this will promote the fair distribution of added value in the food supply chain. i support the proposal that the commission should maintain the system of production quotas, which must be adapted to the needs of each country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's contribution to the development of the european union's space policy, which is one of the most important areas of eu industrial policy. the european space industry generates a consolidated turnover of eur 5.4 billion and employs more than 31 000 highly qualified people. it is estimated that 6-7% of gdp in the west (around eur 800 billion in the european union) is currently dependent on satellite navigation, which requires the creation of a legal and institutional environment for space policy to continue to develop successfully in the european union, and space services markets are growing rapidly. in its report, parliament proposes that the commission should clarify and include the assessment of the technical feasibility and the associated costs and benefits of all space programmes. it is also necessary to establish a clear governance of space policy with effective monitoring and coordination mechanisms in order to align priorities and resources from national funds and the european union. in its report, parliament also asks the commission to complement the legal and financial framework of the galileo programme appropriately, in particular by establishing the multiannual financial perspective for 2014-2020.
in writing. − i support this resolution on the creation of a space strategy for the european union that is beneficial to citizens and that would contribute to the establishment of the objectives of the eu's digital agenda. space is a source of growth and innovation, contributing to increased prosperity and opening up opportunities to meet the eu's socioeconomic and security needs. in this context, space policy must be real policy, and therefore awareness of the importance of space must be increased. europe must also preserve its independence in the use of space. i believe that support for european space infrastructure and research needs to be strengthened. it is also essential to ensure that the european space programme focuses on those areas which provide the greatest added value for europe as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. every year, more and more healthy and edible food is lost throughout the food supply chain in europe (some estimates put the figure as high as 50%). according to a study published by the commission, some 89 million tonnes or 179 kg of food waste per capita are generated each year in the 27 member states. in the european union, 79 million people still live below the poverty line. i agree that more investment is needed in ways to reduce food waste, to reduce the losses suffered by agri-food businesses and to reduce food prices, thereby improving access to food for poorer populations. in order to ensure a high level of consumer protection, member states should be able to take appropriate measures to ensure that the use of such products is not disproportionate to the risks posed by the products concerned. the commission should also identify measures and actions to encourage greater involvement of agri-food businesses, wholesale markets, shops, distribution networks, public and private catering establishments and restaurants, public administrations and non-governmental organisations in the fight against food waste.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the first important step in the fight against hunger in the world is to reduce food waste, to address the problems of the growth in demand forecast by the food and agriculture organisation (fao) and to improve the nutritional level of the population. every year, more and more healthy and edible food is wasted throughout the food supply chain in europe, and in some cases, even after food reaches the consumer, it becomes waste. food waste also has ethical, economic, social and nutritional consequences, as well as health and environmental consequences, as food waste contributes to global warming and food waste produces methane gas, which is 21 times more greenhouse gas-intensive than carbon dioxide. the european parliament therefore calls on the council, the commission, the member states and the actors in the food supply chain to urgently address the problem of food waste throughout the supply and consumption chain and to establish guidelines and support ways of improving the efficiency of the food supply chain in each sector. the european parliament also calls on the commission to assess and support advance measures to reduce food waste at the beginning of the chain, such as labelling with two expiry dates (sell by and consume by ) and selling expired or damaged products at a lower price.
in writing. − food depletion in the developed world and food scarcity in the developing world are both topical and closely interrelated issues. the european union, one of the most developed regions in the world, with its overproduction-promoting common agricultural policy, is also, unfortunately, a major contributor to the fact that a large proportion of food products do not reach those who need them most, but are thrown away or otherwise destroyed. we propose to address the problem by developing strategies and concrete measures. but i suggest that we start with ourselves -- spend twice as much time in the grocery store next time, but think twice about whether we're actually going to use this or that product instead of throwing it away when it's expired.
in writing. - i support this resolution because food waste is a global problem and a food waste chain has already developed alongside food production. to address this problem, strategies for improving the efficiency of the food chain must be developed at eu level. the fight against food waste must be a priority on the eu's political agenda. in this context, it is necessary to increase the efficiency of the food chain, raise public awareness and information. i believe that the commission should assess as soon as possible the possibilities of a coercive policy on food waste and set specific food waste prevention targets. i support the proposal that, in the context of public procurement rules for catering and hotel services, priority should be given to those undertakings which ensure the free distribution of unused products. in addition, low-income consumers must be able to buy high-quality food at lower prices.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the house for a very lively, interesting debate which raised a lot of new ideas. i think it underlies the clear sentiment that this summit was very important and crucial because, after a certain period of time, the primary focus was on growth. it was very important for us to address the greatest concern of our citizens, which is growth and employment, in this way. of course a very important element of the summit was to continue our work on guaranteeing stronger economic and fiscal governance. i would like to use this opportunity to thank parliament’s negotiators, mr verhofstadt, mr gualtieri and mr brok, for an excellent job and for the good cooperation with the european commission. coming back to the outcome of the summit – and i believe mr van rompuy would testify to this – i think there was a consensual approach to the discussion on growth and to the importance of growth and of streamlining our policy to achieve that goal. i cannot agree with those who believe that we can create new jobs by dismantling the european social model. we had such a situation here in europe in the 17th and 18th centuries; let us not go back, please. as regards the focus on youth, i think that the measures adopted during the european council to help our young generation – those 7.5 million young people who are not employed, not in education and not in training – are absolutely crucial. action on this is immediate: letters have been sent to the eight member states, the joint action teams will meet in february, funds are mobilised and these new job plans for the young generation should be debated by the european spring council. i believe we cannot act any faster; what we need is your support and good cooperation from the member states. turning to the very important issue of economic and fiscal governance, i think it was quite clear from this debate, and i think this is echoed by the european council, that we cannot have consolidation without growth. last year we were very much breaking new ground when we were trying to save the euro; trying to save the european monetary union. now we are moving beyond that. we see a certain stabilisation. we can focus on growth, which will bring hope to many families in the european union. there is one thing which it is important to underline. when i was listening to the debate some of the speakers were describing the outcome in much bleaker terms than it really deserved. i think that parliament and the commission acting together have been instrumental in upholding the community method and guaranteeing that the european parliament would be involved in economic governance, that the european institutions would be central in economic governance, that we will have no new european institutions and that this treaty will be incorporated in european law within five years. i think these are very important positive gains and we should look at them in this positive light. some very quick remarks on the specific questions. i absolutely agree with mr daul as regards the importance of the services directive. the full implementation of this directive would increase trade in commercial services by 45%. it would increase foreign direct investment by 20%. it can bring about an increase of 0.5 to 1.5% in gdp. where else can we find such an easy potential for growth? it is lamentable that this directive is not yet in operation; we have started infringement procedures against the remaining two member states which have yet to transpose it correctly. mr verhofstadt mentioned patents. i can assure you that this was highlighted very forcefully by me in the general affairs council and also by the president of the commission in the european council. it is true that, having the chance to decrease costs by 80%, we should do it as soon as possible. we have been discussing the patent for decades, and i am pleased that we now have a deadline and that we should definitely solve this issue before the june european council. i would plead with the three countries which cannot agree where the seat will be to find a solution, because our innovation community, our scientists, are really waiting for it. as regards mr swoboda’s comment on the financial transactions tax and mr verhofstadt’s comments on the eurobonds, the financial transaction tax is a very important proposal. i would like to assure you that the commission is not going to give up. we had one difficult political debate on this issue and it was definitely not conclusive but, if we gave up after each difficult political debate at council level, there would be no european law. we are going to continue and we will need your support. i believe that in the end, in all member states, they will realise how useful this measure can be, the kind of fair burden-sharing it could bring from the financial sector, and the kind of healthy regulatory effect it could have on the financial industry. i believe in rational arguments and these arguments are very rational. i believe they will prevail. as regards eurobonds and stability bonds, you know that the commission believes that this is an excellent stabilising and investment tool and a very good instrument. i think this was clearly shown in our options paper and now we see that the discussion is ongoing. it is very difficult, but i believe that these new efforts in fiscal consolidation will actually increase mutual confidence among the member states in how responsible we are in managing our public finances. i personally believe that we will see the day when we will use the eurobonds, the stability bonds, as a very important financial and investment tool in the european union. coming to the last piece of information: co-financing. i agree with mr verhofstadt that this is a very important tool in helping countries in distress. as you probably know, we have already increased the co-financing rate from 75% to 85% – at first temporarily for latvia, greece, portugal and romania and we did something similar for ireland. now we have increased it even further: 95% in the case of greece. moreover we are helping the greek authorities to better absorb these funds on the ground.
the european council - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said in my introduction, growth and employment policy is a policy at different levels. there is the short term, there is the long term, there is the economic aspect, there is the aspect which is purely a matter of employment policy, there is what can be done at the level of the member states, there is what can be done at the level of the union. as far as the short term is concerned, i hope i shall be brief. firstly, we must not forget that we are, of course, experiencing a period of stagnation, of recession, but that we are coming out of two years of positive growth of about 2% in the euro zone and indeed throughout the union. we tend to forget that and think that the period we have left behind is a recession. this is not the case, despite the consolidation efforts that have been made on average. of course, there are countries that are under programmes and those that are subject to market pressure. but, overall, when i average out the years 2010 and 2011 as good for growth and employment. in a country i know better than others, belgium, we even created 100,000 jobs in 2010 and 2011. we lost 7,000 in the crisis year of 2009. even this year, 2012, growth is positive. i know there are problems in a lot of countries and in a lot of regions. but i also want to emphasize that we have also had positive developments in the last two years. for short-term growth, the most important thing we can do - everyone agrees on this - is to foster renewed confidence in the euro area. if confidence returns to the euro area, consumers and businesses will have more confidence and that will lead to more economic growth. we saw in 2009, once confidence returned, once confidence in the banks was restored, there was a renewed economic growth and an increase in employment. so we have to work on that. the last few months have not been as catastrophic as some people try to make out. for example, the spreads relative to germany have decreased substantially for italy and spain: 1.6 for spain and portugal compared to the highest level of the spread a few months ago. i'm not saying we've reached the goal, i'm just saying there's a positive turnaround. i am not even mentioning ireland where there is a decrease compared to the bund - there is about 7%. is that enough? no, you can't! is there a turning point? i know! i hope we will continue along this path. in the short term, spending more and increasing deficits is not the answer. this is not the answer, we tried it, we failed. even outside the european union, those who have practised this policy of fiscal stimulus must now return to a more orthodox policy. and even under the golden rule, if there is a small deficit that can be tolerated, it is a structural deficit. so there is room for manoeuvre: it is structural, it is not nominal or a deficit of 0.5% at any time. there's an appreciation and there's this structural effect that we have to take into account. in the short term, every disadvantage has an advantage, the recent depreciation of the euro is a help to our exports and there are even studies that prove that this can happen very quickly. in the long term, there is the europe 2020 strategy. we don't care, we compare it to the lisbon strategy. i believe that now we are taking it very seriously and have integrated the europe 2020 strategy into the european semester and the six-pack. there is also a much stronger commitment from this parliament than in the past to work on this. we also have commitments for employment in the euro plus pact. of course, all this must be carried out. but i think we have made all the arrangements necessary to make this long-term strategy a success this time. i share your disappointment about the european patent. i look at it but it's my character from a perspective that has positive elements. i started my political career with a prime minister in the 1970s who said: 'we have not succeeded in reaching agreement on the european patent at the european council.' i'm talking about the year 1978. we are now much later and, under the belgian presidency, and even with a minister for economic affairs whom some know better than others, we have managed to make a breakthrough through enhanced cooperation. now we have to take the final step; it will take a few weeks, but i am sure that the danish presidency - and we are helping it a lot - will find a solution to this problem. as regards the social aspect, the specific employment policy, it must be recognized that a great deal can be done at european level. we can work in the single market. we can mobilise european funds, and we are doing so: we have reduced the co-financing rate, and the vice-president of the commission has done well to mention this. so we can do all of this, there are project bonds, but we have to admit that the biggest work has to be done at the national level. we can influence national governments and parliaments. we can encourage them. we can ask for commitments. in some ways, they can even be punished. all this is planned in the european semester. but the bulk of the work has to be done by national governments and parliaments, otherwise we cannot explain the difference between germany, austria, the netherlands and some other parts of europe in terms of unemployment rates. for example, for young people, the rate may be quite low, around 8%, while in other cases it approaches 50%. there are huge differences which are due to the policy that has been pursued in the past. what we are going to do now is to encourage national governments and member states to follow the good examples, including the austrian example, through financial and other incentives. the commission's recommendations will be very important and our conclusions in the european council are in that direction. i won't belittle them as much as some have. so there is this economic side and this social side and of course, as i have just mentioned, what can be done at the level of the union and what can be done at the level of the member states. as regards the treaty, ladies and gentlemen, when i compare everything that was said before it was concluded with what is now being said, i think we have done a good job. we have worked well with the help of many people, including and especially in this parliament. a great deal of work has been done to integrate this intergovernmental treaty into the philosophy of the european union treaties. we must make an effort - it will be the task of our successors, at any rate of mine - to incorporate this treaty into the treaty itself as such within a few years. we have also made sure that there is more coherence in the european union. at one point, some felt that we were heading towards a two-speed europe. we got a deal for 25. unfortunately, not 27, but 25, which means that there are eight countries outside the euro zone that have shown solidarity with those who have a common currency. and we have reached an agreement that those who are not in the euro zone, but who ratify the treaty, can participate in key moments in the deliberations of the euro zone summits and of course be associated with all the subjects that are agreed in the treaty. the cohesion of the union has thus been safeguarded as far as possible. once again, when i compare what was said before the negotiations and listen carefully to what is now being said about the treaty, we have come a long and interesting way, and i am glad of that.
in writing. it is now more important than ever what message the european parliament will send to the half billion people in the european union (eu). we must show a united position in the european parliament's resolution on the conclusions of this week's european council. i think we have to advocate for saving wisely, for the efficient use of eu funds, but it is very important to stress that saving alone will not help to overcome the eu crisis. it is also worth noting that in some member states, the excessive use of funds has led to an even greater increase in poverty and social exclusion in recent years. in some member states, the response has been emigration, especially among young people. in the european parliament we must stress that the crisis can only be overcome by promoting economic growth, increasing employment, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and other concrete measures. unfortunately, at this week's european council, the declaration on growth and jobs was relegated to the background, as the focus was on institutional matters and disagreements between some member states over a crossborder agreement on the treaty. we must be in favour of not dividing the eu into euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries, because that is how we divide the community, people's trust in the european union as a united, responsible and solidary community.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − as indeed you said, the elections on 15 january 2012 – as the osc said – were not in accordance with the principles of democratic elections and we have commented on that. the ensuing violence that we have seen between striking oil workers and the police is extremely worrying and again we have sought that the kazakh authorities should investigate and find a solution to this. i am quite worried about the situation. tomorrow the foreign minister, minister kazykhanov, will be here and i will be meeting with him. i will not only express my own concerns; i will of course, on behalf of honourable members, make our concerns known to him. it is very important that, especially in their current role in the oic, they really do take these issues seriously and deal with them properly.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − as you know, i have raised these issues with the iraqis from the beginning. you and i have been in many dialogues about this and rightly so. it is a very worrying situation. i do know that martin kobler has been in touch with the residents of camp ashraf throughout this process. there is a lot of information so that it is quite hard to unpick exactly what is happening. there are different kinds of interests at work in this whole process. he will be here tomorrow and i know he is meeting with you. he knows not only how important this is to you, but how important it is to members of this house. he will also be in paris to have discussions. the ambition is to now find the solution that will take these people to a better future, enabling them to live the lives that we all want them to lead. i hope that the transition through camp liberty is a way of ensuring that they move forward in the future and that their needs are properly addressed. we will be meeting with him tomorrow to make sure that those messages get through.
madam high representative, belarus remains the only country in europe which imposes the death penalty and carries out executions. i would like to draw your attention to the case of two young belarusians – dmitry konovalov and vladislav kovalyov, aged 25 and 26 – who have both been condemned to death and could be executed at any moment without warning. they were accused of committing terrorist attacks in vitebsk in 2005, in minsk in 2008 and in the minsk metro in april 2011. the guilt of these two young men has not been proven and even relatives of the victims expressed their doubts that konovalov and kovalyov are guilty of committing these crimes. my question to you is: are you aware of this case? what actions have been undertaken by you, or do you foresee undertaking, in order to save the lives of these two young men?
mr president, i welcome the eu decision to place an embargo on iranian oil imports, ban new contracts and freeze iranian central bank assets, because the recent eu decision, coupled with existing american measures, will come close to imposing the ‘crippling sanctions’ referred to by the us secretary of state, hillary clinton. it is important to note that the eu, as a block, is iran’s second largest customer, taking about a quarter of iranian exports. the latest set of eu and us sanctions goes beyond targeting the persons and institutions involved in the nuclear programme. hopefully those sanctions will achieve their aim, but more important is that the eu member states are perfectly aware of the possible consequences and that the respective governments are prepared to deal with them. the european parliament, in its resolution, makes a strong statement in support of the eu’s dual-track approach for the negotiations with iran, which offers both rewards and punishments. what is clear is that we are far away from trusting the current iranian regime and, at the same time, we would wish iran to become a country like japan, which has the capability to become a nuclear power quickly if need be, but which has rejected taking the final steps to possessing nuclear weapons. finally, in this context, what could give negotiations and diplomacy a chance is the ever-changing situation in iran and in the region, including the move towards democracy in the middle east.
we often say that the european union lacks a unified voice in foreign policy, so it is really very gratifying that european member states, which are experiencing economic difficulties and importing iranian oil, have been able to reach an agreement and decide on broader sanctions against iran. this is a serious signal to the iranian government first and foremost. the iranian regime's verbal claims that its atomic weapons are peaceful are unfounded and unconvincing. meanwhile, the european union's policy remains one of duplicity, leaving it up to the iranian authorities to impose further constraints on the country's economic development. the primary objective of sanctions is to ensure that a substantial threat to global security and regional stability in the middle east is eliminated. it is a pity that some countries with global ambitions are unable to transcend narrow national interests and take a stand for global security - i am talking about russia and china. however, i think we need to set very clear conditions and criteria for the lifting of the sanctions announced.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the increasing political and economic importance of brazil, russia, india, china and south africa requires the development of a coherent and effective union policy towards those countries. it should not be based on our fears or our fear of the emergence of new powers, but on cooperation and mutual trust. relations with the bric countries should be based on a real partnership, but also, and importantly, on shared values. the union must take due account of the new political and economic importance of the emerging powers in order to maintain its own international standing. for these reasons, several of the priorities in mr saryusz-wolski's report need to be highlighted and supported. the concept of bilateral strategic partnerships with each of these countries will strengthen the union's position. the renewed partnership with brazil on the basis of the eu-mercosur association, which will be the most important agreement signed by the union so far, should be supported. brazil can also be a great example for us to build energy self-sufficiency by supporting the production of biofuels. the role of the strategic partnership with russia in promoting peace and security in europe should also be emphasised. finally, i would like to express the hope that the union will properly appreciate the importance of china as a major economic power of the future and take the lead in engaging with china in order to revive the economy of our continent.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. energy services affect all aspects of people's lives and livelihoods. without free access to these services, societies are forced to live in poverty. about 1.3 billion people in the world have no access to electricity. this is a big problem in the third world. but there is another problem, affecting the people of the european union itself, and especially its new member states, which is limited access to electricity because of its high price. this is particularly true in rural areas, which is why it is so important to strengthen the eu energy fund to support marginalised rural areas and dispersed households. the promotion of and investment in renewable energy sources should become the main union action in this area. the goal is clear: to provide affordable energy services to the poor, especially in rural areas. in central and eastern europe, including countries such as lithuania, many hectares of land are uncultivated. by supporting biofuel energy initiatives, we would have a triple benefit: cheaper energy, a return to agricultural production and a reduction in unemployment by creating new jobs in the agricultural sector. the union should develop clear guidelines on the criteria for financing and supporting the production of biofuels and alternative energy sources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu foreign policy towards brics which makes recommendations, identifying key areas of reform, where the eu could seek to streamline its action and institutional architecture and thereby increase its potential and effectiveness as a global actor. i agree with the rapporteur that the overall coordination of eu foreign policy towards the brics and other emerging powers should be ensured by the commission, that better linking of foreign and security policy with eu sectoral policies should be implemented by the following actions: increasing the participation of the ep in bilateral summits between the eu and its strategic partners, increasing the role of the brics in international development policy that better reflects their share in global gdp, strengthening the strategic dialogue between eu and usa on global governance and reform of international organisations. we, members of european parliament, conclude that the eu should take into account the new weight in political and economic terms of the brics and other emerging powers and use its political leverage to continue promoting universal values in the looming new multi-polar system of global governance and be at the forefront of the process of reform of the international governance system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the growing demographic gap between the west and the brics and other emerging market economies in the near future threatens to change the established balance of power in the international arena and the very system of global governance. the seven emerging market economies (brazil, russia, india, china, indonesia, mexico and turkey) are projected to have larger economies than all the g7 countries (the united states, japan, canada, the united kingdom, germany, france and italy) by 2050. china is projected to become the world's largest economy by gross domestic product by 2020 and india could become the world's fastest growing economy by 2050. these countries will become increasingly important economically and politically on the international stage, especially in addressing global challenges such as the fight against climate change, international terrorism, the distribution of resources and rare earths, global political stability, etc. the eu needs to strengthen cooperation with the brics and other emerging market economies in the global governance framework and in international organisations. i agree with what needs to be considered at eu level, how to increase the role, influence and voting power of the eu in international forums and how to achieve smoother coordination and a more coherent position among eu member states in these forums.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the european union must define a common foreign policy objective and strategy for regions with rapid economic development, such as the so-called brics countries (brazil, russia, india, china, indonesia, mexico and turkey). on the basis of current data, brics economic growth is projected to continue strong and even surpass the g7 (the united states, japan, canada, the united kingdom, germany, france and italy) combined by 2050. the european union will therefore have to take due account in the conduct of its foreign policy in the future of the new economic and political strength of these emerging market economies and to act as one strong political and economic entity. this is particularly important if, as a region of the world, we are to continue to lead the reform of international governance and play a key role in finding a global solution to transnational challenges such as climate change, access to raw materials and rare earth metals, terrorism and global political stability and security.
in writing. − in 2050, the economies of the seven emerging market economies (brazil, russia, india, china, indonesia, mexico and turkey) will be larger than the combined economies of the g7 (usa, japan, canada, uk, germany, france and italy). it is projected that china will become the world's largest economy by gdp by 2020 and india may become the fastest growing economy by 2050. i supported this document because addressing international challenges such as climate change, global governance issues, access to raw materials and rare minerals, terrorism, the fight against radical non-state movements, sustainable development, global political stability and security will require a rules-based, integrative approach based on partnership, shared values and common consensus, comprehensive consultation and cooperation with new emerging market economies. efficient solutions to international problems will have to be found through concerted efforts. i also agree that the eu can and should take the initiative in this area.
in writing. − universal values such as human rights and freedoms must be and remain the central dimension of international relations and global structures. in the context of changing global economic and political realities, the european union must take a leading role and promote the strengthening of universal values in the emerging multilateral system of international relations by developing bilateral and multilateral relations with the brics countries based on democracy, mutual respect and shared values. growing economic power allows for the creation of additional poles of power in the global system, but increasing political and economic weight also means increasing global responsibilities. it is important that these countries choose the path of cooperation, rather than confrontation, in addressing issues of global security, stability and prosperity. the eu can and must contribute to creating a world of tomorrow where no one doubts that they are supporting a tyrant or a murderer.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which sets out the eu's foreign policy objectives and future strategy towards brics and other rapidly developing countries. the rules-based approach to integration and continued and constructive cooperation with new emerging market economies are needed to address the current and pressing global challenges. it should be noted that the eu's foreign policy must take into account and assess the interests and role of each individual brics country, rather than the collective interests of these countries as a group of countries. in addition, in order to reform financial and economic governance institutions globally and contribute to the consolidation of the multilateral order, the eu needs to strengthen its political dialogue with the brics countries and to better align its policies with the us.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution where the ep recommends to the council a consistent policy towards regimes against whom the eu applies restrictive measures when their leaders exercise their personal and commercial interests for their personal wealth within eu borders. i agree with the rapporteur on the proposed clearer criteria for eu sanctions, in order to enhance the consistency, transparency and credibility of their application. i also agree that an annual report should be made on the implementation of sanctions, the european parliament should be fully and regularly associated in the review process and the evaluation of sanctions should be done in dialogue with the people and civil society organisations of the targeted countries, with the aim of developing and strengthening the respect for democracy and human rights. the eu member states would have to declare when persons on sanctions lists have physical or financial assets within their borders, to apply financial sanctions or restrictive measures in case of any financial intervention. we, members of european parliament, believe that measures clearly targeted to the accountable regimes and eu coordinated action will strive to minimise the adverse impact on the civil population, in particular the most vulnerable.
in writing. - i voted for the report. it is estimated that over the past two decades, more than $150 billion (u.s.) has been taken out of north africa - algeria, morocco, and tunisia. the application of sanctions or restrictive measures, such as arms embargoes, trade sanctions, financial and economic sanctions, account freezes, flight bans, admission restrictions, diplomatic sanctions, boycotts of sporting and cultural events and suspensions of cooperation with third countries, can only be effective if they are applied jointly at eu level. disagreement between member states often leads to inconsistent application of restrictive measures, which undermines the credibility of the eu and adversely affects the effectiveness of these measures. i agree with the european parliament's recommendations that an effective eu-wide sanctions policy should be developed by establishing clear criteria for the application of sanctions, with clear objectives, the form and guidelines for the assessment of the sanctions to be applied and a review procedure, which would allow for improved cooperation and interaction between member states and ensure that no double standards are applied when deciding on restrictive measures or sanctions.
in writing. − the european union is attractive to many authoritarian leaders and those associated with them as a source of investment, wealth, banking and healthcare, and as a place where they enjoy the freedom to travel and spend their often dubiously earned money. i voted in favour of the document because decisions on sanctions should be taken by the eu only after a full assessment of how democratic change can be most effectively achieved in the country concerned, and each decision should be duly justified. sanctions themselves should be used only to influence the elite responsible for repressive or criminal regimes and the responsible non-state actors in failed states and to ensure that restrictive measures and sanctions are not applied inaccurately, are proportionate to the objective pursued and minimise the negative impact on the civilian population, in particular the most vulnerable. it is therefore necessary to improve cooperation and interaction between the 27 eu member states in this area, and we must speak with one voice and in a consistent manner.
in writing. − the eu must strengthen the effectiveness and coherence of restrictive measures and sanctions against authoritarian regimes, while maintaining flexibility. it is necessary to ensure that the impact of these measures on ordinary citizens is minimised. this requires common criteria and standards for the imposition and removal of sanctions. the effectiveness of restrictive measures will be enhanced by the full involvement of both countries belonging to the european economic area and countries seeking eu membership. the application of sanctions should also be binding on all persons and entities, including third-country persons and entities, operating on the eu market and on eu nationals and economic operators operating outside the eu. i believe that the immediate publication of all such cases would have a major preventive effect in discouraging the access of representatives of authoritarian and criminal regimes to the european union market, financial institutions and structures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu must pursue a consistent policy towards regimes subject to restrictive measures. first, it is essential to ensure that every decision taken by the eu is properly reasoned. in addition, clear and precise criteria for the application of restrictive measures and an effective sanctions policy must be established. each restrictive measure and sanction shall be applied in a targeted and proportionate manner, following a detailed analysis of the economic and social situation in the country concerned. it should be noted that a coherent policy towards authoritarian regimes must be pursued not only outside the eu but also within the eu. in this respect, a special role is assigned to the member states, which must ensure that restrictive measures are effectively applied against the leaders of authoritarian regimes when they pursue their personal and commercial interests within the eu.
in writing. - colleagues, the eu must learn from its mistakes. there have been many examples - some of which are mentioned in this report - of leaders of ruthless dictatorships who have increased their wealth by helping other eu member states. what's even more shocking is that it's been done so openly for so long. for example, the gaddafi regime was valued at billions of dollars in assets across the eu, particularly private property in the uk. the assets of egyptian president hosni mubarak and his family amounted to almost $70 million, most of which was invested by the eu and the us. at the very least, there is an urgent need to strengthen restrictive measures against recognised authoritarian regimes by targeting their personal and commercial activities in the eu. i agree with the main point of the report that we need a coherent policy towards authoritarian regimes. but we must go further. we also need a consistent policy towards those member states which break the rules. last week, human rights watch released a report condemning the eu and its member states for showing a reluctance to address human rights abuses within the eu, despite speaking out about the importance of human rights and freedoms during the arab spring.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution requesting the commission to submit swiftly a proposal for a directive on the cross-border transfer of company seats. currently, there is a lack of consistency in legislation on procedures for transferring the registered office or real head office of an existing company from one member state to another within the single market. the transfer of company seats is often accompanied by administrative difficulties, high costs, social implications and the lack of legal certainty. we, members of the european parliament, agree that the process within the eu should be harmonised, the directive should apply to limited liability companies and allow companies to exercise their right of establishment by migrating to a host member state without losing their legal personality. the transfer should not circumvent legal, social and fiscal conditions. any company against which proceedings for winding-up, liquidation, insolvency or suspension of payments or other similar proceedings have been brought should not be allowed to undertake a cross-border transfer of seat. this legal harmonisation will strengthen competitiveness at eu level.
in writing. − articles 49 and 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union guarantee freedom of establishment for all enterprises and companies. cross-border corporate migration and the possibility of relocating companies to other member states are among the most important factors in the completion of a well-functioning internal market. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the directive on the transfer of business between member states. in the public consultations launched back in 2004, a majority of participants considered that it would be useful to adopt a company law directive on the relocation of company headquarters to another member state, which would ensure a harmonised regime in all member states. i therefore support the european parliament's recommendation that the commission submit a proposal for a directive on the relocation of companies to another member state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a report in which the european parliament, in the exercise of its newly acquired right of legislative initiative, which previously belonged exclusively to the european commission, asks the latter to submit a proposal for a directive on the relocation of the headquarters of companies to another member state of the european union. the european parliament has exercised this right because it considers that the commission's inaction on this issue is wrong, since it does not remove the obstacles to the exercise by companies of one of their fundamental eu rights the freedom to establish companies throughout the european union. the european parliament's opinion was based on the results of numerous public consultations and also on the conclusions of the european court of justice that there are still too many differences in the national laws of the member states applicable to the establishment of companies, which hinder the exercise of the freedom of establishment and therefore require a harmonised regime throughout the eu. such unification of the legal regime applicable to the establishment of companies throughout the eu would remove many administrative obstacles and reduce social and tax costs for a company seeking to establish itself in another member state.
in writing. - 2 february 2012 i voted in favour of the document because companies still face administrative obstacles and social and tax costs in implementing mobility policies. it is therefore necessary to lay down appropriate measures to give effect to the freedom of undertakings to move their head offices. the commission should submit a proposal for a directive on the relocation of company headquarters to another member state, taking into account the need to guarantee freedom of establishment for all firms and companies. the transfer of the head office should preserve the continuity of the legal personality of the undertaking or company concerned and thus ensure its proper functioning. the transfer should not affect the rights of the interested parties (small shareholders, employees and creditors) which they enjoyed before the transfer. legal specificity is required, with full respect for the legal, social and fiscal conditions. it should also be noted that the relocation of the company's headquarters is one of the most important elements in the creation of the internal market.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it will facilitate the exercise of the right of establishment by limited liability companies and their migration to the host member state without losing their legal personality. the companies will thus be able to be restructured under the law of the host state without being liquidated and at the same time ensuring that they have the right conditions for their activities. moreover, the transfer of undertakings from one member state to another will give due regard to the interests of workers, respect their rights and protect them against dismissal. in view of the benefits of this directive, i consider it appropriate to oblige the commission to submit as soon as possible a proposal for a directive on the relocation of company head offices to another member state, as cross-border corporate migration is one of the most important factors in the creation of an effectively functioning internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which outlines the efficiency and effectiveness of the echo control, monitoring and supervision system, in particular when it comes to framework partnership agreement (fpa) partners or to international organisations (such as the un). the eu (the commission together with the member states) is the world’s largest donor of humanitarian aid. the eu’s total contribution of aid, including the member states, in 2010, was eur 2 957 million. the average budget managed by dg echo for its humanitarian aid activities between 2006 and 2010 is eur 889 million annually. in 2010 the budget was reinforced to eur 1 115 million to respond to crisis and disasters (haiti, pakistan). we, members of the european parliament, agree that there is additional need for sustainability, coherence and complementarity of humanitarian actions.
in writing. − in recent years, the world has witnessed a dramatic increase in the frequency, scale and severity of humanitarian disasters, affecting an increasing number of countries. in 2010 alone, the two major disasters in haiti and pakistan demonstrated some of the inefficiencies and lack of coordination needed to respond effectively to disasters. it is also necessary to ensure adequate control and transparency of the use of eu funds and to increase the accountability of beneficiaries, preventing misuse of funds. i believe that in order to strengthen audits and increase the credibility of the checks carried out, it is important to take account of the court's recommendation to monitor better the allocation and post-allocation of funds and to reach an agreement with the un agencies that jointly manage humanitarian aid with the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to make the delivery of humanitarian aid by the european union more transparent and efficient. also, strengthen the control of the use of funds when the eu provides humanitarian aid in a joint management with other partners the united nations and other international organisations. in the case of joint management of humanitarian projects, budget implementation and control are delegated to international organisations, with the european commission performing only monitoring and verification tasks on the spot. in the context of the discharge procedure, the court and parliament have repeatedly criticised the way in which international organisations are managed jointly. the criticism was prompted by a lack of consistency, rigorousness and various sources of confusion arising from the many additional levels of legislation that lead to the most errors. the weaknesses in the control of eu funds and monitoring of progress have also been widely criticised. this report therefore proposes to replace the joint management method with indirect management, which would allow the budgetary authorities to be more accountable to the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because there has been a dramatic increase in the frequency, scale and severity of humanitarian disasters, affecting more countries in the world. the eu's key role as a global humanitarian provider and the increasing number and frequency of interventions in and outside the eu, as well as the current budgetary constraints, highlight the importance of sound financial management in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. the massive disasters in haiti and pakistan have once again demonstrated the need to improve the eu's response capabilities in terms of efficiency, speed and coordination. the most important thing is that the most vulnerable groups receive timely and effective assistance.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as the dramatic increase in the number of humanitarian disasters makes it particularly important to ensure sound financial management based on the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. the eu is the largest provider of humanitarian aid and the european commission's directorate-general for humanitarian aid and civil protection needs to be adequately equipped with financial and human resources to fulfil its mandate. the effectiveness and efficiency of eu humanitarian aid depends on an objective and consistent assessment of needs. in addition, the aid must be implemented using innovative methods and the continuous involvement of beneficiaries in the planning and management of the aid must be encouraged. in view of the constant increase in the number of different large-scale natural disasters, the eu needs to strengthen its response capacity. it is important to note that in order to achieve these objectives, it is essential that a realistic humanitarian aid budget is finally established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which addresses the exchange of views on the commission’s public consultation examining possibilities for introducing a system of collective judicial recourse (‘collective redress’) at european level. the report highlights the principle that anyone who has suffered damage must have the right to receive compensation but that those bringing collective actions must not be in a better position than individual claimants. the eu legal tradition is directed towards solving disputes between individuals rather than through a collective entity. some member states’ legal systems have developed differing approaches to the issue of collective redress. it is in this context that the commission must put forward evidence that, pursuant to the principle of subsidiarity, an action at eu level is opportune. we, members of the european parliament, agree on the need for this new legal initiative and on initially proposed horizontal procedural actions and safeguards which should be further analysed, tested and developed.
in writing. − the commission's consumer policy strategy sets the objective of creating an efficient internal retail market by 2013 and enabling consumers and retailers to feel as safe as they do when buying in their own country. cross-border trade in the eu is developing very slowly because consumers are not assured that their rights will be protected and that they will receive compensation for damage if problems arise. the integration of european markets and the resulting intensification of cross-border activities have created the need for a common european concept of collective redress. the commission has made considerable efforts in this area, which is still regulated at member state level. i believe that a clear impact assessment must be provided and that possible measures must be identified to improve the current eu regulatory framework at eu level, to compensate those who have suffered damage as a result of breaches of eu law, and thus to strengthen consumer confidence and ensure the smoother functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament (ep) report because in a european area of justice, eu citizens and businesses must not only have rights, but also the possibility of actually exercising those rights effectively. in addition, all eu citizens should be guaranteed the right to a fair trial. it should be noted that the system of collective actions for damages can complement the legal protection of individuals, but cannot replace it. the european parliament welcomes the commission's work towards a common european concept of collective actions. the ep asks the commission to demonstrate in its impact assessment that, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, action at eu level is needed to improve the current eu regulatory framework in order to compensate those who have suffered damage as a result of breaches of eu law, thereby enhancing consumer confidence and ensuring the smoother functioning of the internal market. the european parliament also welcomes the efforts made by member states to strengthen the rights of victims of unlawful activities when they adopt or plan to adopt legislation aimed at facilitating the redress process and avoiding an abusive litigation culture. however, it also recognises that national collective redress mechanisms differ widely, in particular in their scope and procedural features, which may impede the exercise of rights by citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because in a european area of justice, citizens and businesses must be able to exercise their rights under eu law effectively and efficiently. in the case of mass or dispersed damage, victims of the unlawful activity may indeed not have a right to claim compensation, as the costs of individual redress may be disproportionate to the damage suffered. in this respect, the concept of european collective redress can be useful, as it may be important for victims of unlawful activities to pool their claims which would otherwise have to be brought separately, and for undertakings to have a single dispute settled or a single court decision to provide legal certainty on the matter in question.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which establishes a uniform concept of european collective redress. such a concept will allow for the resolution of cross-border disputes and ensure the effectiveness of consumer redress and enforcement measures. it should be noted that the importance of the institution of collective redress in the protection of consumer rights is undeniable. mandatory eu-level collective redress mechanisms will ensure the highest level of protection of eu consumer rights and a more competitive internal market. i believe that the role of consumer organisations in collective redress should be encouraged and strengthened in order to achieve the objectives pursued. in addition, a european-level remedy for collective actions must be available to consumers at both national and eu level.
in writing. − the labelling of products and the indication of the nutritional value on food packaging are intended to increase consumer awareness of the composition and nutritional value of food. eu legislation on food labelling and nutrition labelling aims to provide information to the consumer in a clear and simple manner and to prevent any misuse, ambiguity or misleading use of such information. currently, information on food packaging indicating that a product is light or dietary can mislead the consumer and influence his choice of a particular food, even though such information is often not linked to the true nutritional value of the product. i voted in favour of the european parliament's position against the commission's proposed claim of a 10% lower nutritional content, as this claim can be confusing and incomprehensible to the average consumer, and i supported the call for a new draft proposal with new and clearer wording.
in writing. − i believe that the most important objective we have to pursue in the adoption of legislation on food labelling is consumer safety, which is impossible without ensuring that consumers are adequately informed. it is therefore a wrong practice to allow the same property (in this case the reduction of substances) to be described by several statements. in particular, where these claims can be used even if other conditions expected by the consumer (e.g. reduction in calories after reduction in sugar) are not met. as it is a regulation on the provision of information to consumers, it may even be liable to mislead consumers.
in writing. − i think it is appropriate to disagree with the commission's new regulation which proposes to amend the list of nutrition claims in foodstuffs. in particular, nutrition and health claims made on foods must not be ambiguous or misleading. consumers must be provided with accurate and specific information on foodstuffs, their origin, characteristics and properties. it should be noted that comprehensive and accurate information on the product allows comparison with other foodstuffs and the selection of the most appropriate foodstuff without any health risk. the amended list of nutrition claims currently in force will not only have a negative impact on consumers, but will also distort competition in relation to products with the currently used claims.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as fiscal stability is not only one of the key tools for overcoming the crisis, but also strengthens solidarity and ensures sustainable growth and employment. in this context, it is necessary not only to apply existing measures but also to develop new measures to stimulate the economic recovery. it is therefore appropriate to establish a debt repayment fund, develop a draft of bonds, a guideline for stability bonds and introduce a financial transaction tax at european level. i believe that member states whose currency is not the euro should be given full participation rights in all euro-related summits, not just those on competitiveness, the overall structure of the euro area and the basic rules. it is welcome that the international agreement on a fiscal stability union will take due account of and pursue the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. it is also essential that the content of the agreement is incorporated into the eu legal framework within five years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution concerning the conclusions of the informal european council meeting of 30 january 2012. i support the criticising opinion of the european parliament and i agree upon the proposed improvements to the final text of the conclusions. i agree with the common concerns that the uk maintains its objection on the final text of the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union. the economic recovery requires measures to strengthen solidarity and boost sustainable growth and employment and insist that the european council decides on concrete and far-reaching measures. i support the ep request for a further series of measures to ensure fiscal stability, and calls now for the establishment of a redemption fund, project bonds, a road map for stability bonds and the introduction of an ftt at european level, for which the commission has already made a proposal. we members of european parliament point out that some further important elements are missing from the new agreement, such as the avoidance of double standards between the norms in the agreement and those in the lisbon treaty and contained in the acquis communautaire. we also insist and reiterate that ep participation in these negotiations is further extended.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. fiscal stability in the eu and in the member states is an important component of the solution to the current crisis, and the new fiscal treaty will provide the basis for new principles for the coordination and surveillance of the economies of the eu member states. the european parliament succeeded in getting very important provisions, in particular on the participation of non-euro area member states in euro area summits, included in the final text of the treaty. so far, agreement has been reached on the right to participate in those meetings which concern competitiveness, the general structure of the euro area and the basic rules which will apply to these member states in the future, but i believe that non-euro area countries should not be restricted from participating in other meetings. in addition to this agreement, other urgent measures are needed, including the introduction of a financial transaction tax at eu level as soon as possible and the establishment of an eu credit rating agency.
in writing. − i voted for this european parliament resolution because it is very important what message we send to the half billion people in the european union about the state of the eu, the economic situation and better governance. the european parliament (ep) recognises that fiscal stability is an important component of the solution to the current crisis, but stresses that measures to strengthen solidarity and to promote sustainable growth and employment are needed to achieve economic recovery. the ep welcomes the fact that the european council recognises this, but insists that concrete and far-reaching measures are needed. it is important to realise that austerity alone will not solve the european union's crisis. in order to ensure fiscal stability, the european parliament proposes to use not only the series of measures envisaged but also the drafting of a bond, the guidelines for stability bonds and the introduction at european level of a financial transaction tax, which has already been proposed by the commission. the ep also urges the contracting parties to fully honour their commitment to incorporate the stability, coordination and governance treaty into the eu treaties within five years at the latest, and to take this opportunity to address the remaining shortcomings of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. −fiscal stability is an important component of the solution to the current crisis, but the recovery of the economy requires measures to strengthen solidarity and to promote sustainable growth and employment. it is good that the european council recognises this, but it does not take concrete and far-reaching measures. i therefore abstained. the new agreement also lacks a number of other important elements: first, the desire to avoid double standards between the agreement and the lisbon treaty and the rules of the acquis communautaire; second, all contracting parties to the agreement, current and future euro area members, should have the same right to participate fully in all euro-related summits. euro-area summit meetings should be held in an expanded format. we must all work towards fiscal stability, economic recovery, strengthening solidarity and sustainable growth and employment for our citizens.
in writing. − eu foreign ministers agreed on additional restrictive measures against iran in a number of sectors. gradual embargoes on crude oil imports to the eu have been imposed, measures have been taken against the central bank of iran, further export restrictions have been imposed. these measures reflect serious and growing concerns about the possible military aspects of iran's nuclear programme. there is no effective dialogue between the west and iran and tensions have risen dangerously in the gulf region. however, the eu remains committed to a comprehensive and lasting solution that would strengthen the international community's confidence in iran's peaceful nuclear programme. i agree that the solution to this issue should be to seek by all means a diplomatic solution to the nuclear crisis and to avoid military conflict, and that the humanitarian consequences of additional sanctions against iran should be carefully assessed and monitored.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the proliferation risk associated with iran's nuclear programme remains a major concern for the eu. it is of concern that the iaea report makes the claim that there is credible information that iran has engaged in activities related to the development of a nuclear explosive device. iran's enrichment activities may be in violation of six unsc resolutions and eleven iaea council resolutions. this is evidenced by the recent start of an operation to enrich uranium to 20% at an underground facility in the fordovo area near como. iran must immediately halt its development of enrichment technologies, which go far beyond the need to ensure the security of fuel supply for civilian purposes and show disregard for international concerns about covert military intent. it is necessary to engage in meaningful and constructive discussions in order to address substantially the concerns raised by the nuclear programme.
in writing. the atena report has sent a distress signal to the world. the military dimension of iran's nuclear programme poses a direct threat to the middle east region, in particular to israel, and to world peace and security. iran is a member of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and the existence of a military dimension would be a serious breach of international law. in the absence of cooperation from iran, the 27 eu member states unanimously agreed to new sanctions and continue to call on iran to return to the negotiating table. iran shall immediately provide all answers to the questions raised, resume negotiations and fully open documents, sites, infrastructure and persons to iaea inspections. those members of the un security council who supply nuclear technology and expertise to iran must freeze such exports, renouncing narrow economic and political interests, assuming their responsibility as guardians of world peace before the world, because they are very likely to be collaborating in the creation of a new source of global threat.
in writing. − i believe that the eu must take a firm stand and that all issues concerning iran and its nuclear programme must be resolved peacefully. we can't cross that line, there's no going back. the use of military force and means is not an effective way to resolve the conflict. it will not bring results but will only exacerbate disagreements and increase tensions. military force cannot be used as a means of political pressure, especially now that the world is still experiencing economic instability. in this context, constructive negotiations and mutually beneficial decisions are necessary to ensure a reliable supply of energy resources. it is also essential to ensure that the strict penalties which should be applied as a measure of last resort are effective, adequate and proportionate to the objective pursued.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution giving the ep reaction on the european commission’s communication on sport of 18 january 2011, which is the first contribution to define new eu competences for sport. i support the commission position as the proposed policy promotes an increase in the social role and a healthy lifestyle, combats doping and violence, gives benefits to the economy and will ensure better governance in sport. furthermore, the report stresses the fact that sport can contribute to the strategic objectives of the european union, given its educational and cultural value. however, in the future, the european union has to create a future specific programme on sport with a view to defining and supporting a real european dimension in sport. we, members of european parliament, believe in actions at eu level such as a focus on doping, trafficking, mobility of athletes, racism and violence and on the fight against criminal activities such as money laundering, match-fixing, human trafficking and exploitation of minors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. sport generates a high added value across the eu, contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and having a significant positive impact on social inclusion, education and training and public health. sport also helps to reduce social security and healthcare costs, as it improves health, increases productivity and ensures a better quality of life. i support the objectives set out in the commission's communication, in particular the inclusion of compulsory sport in all schools, increased support for organisations seeking to integrate people through sport, in particular those at risk of social exclusion and people with disabilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because sport is a very fast-growing sector not only in the european union but also beyond. the data show that increased sporting activity creates around 15 million jobs in the eu. the sports sector employs 5.4% of the active population and has an annual turnover of around €407 billion, or 3.65% of european gdp. sport plays a major role in society and contributes to social well-being by promoting employment and integration, contributing to society and social education. the european union has recently been given new competence in the field of sport and is invited to contribute to the promotion of sport. in response to the commission communication 'strengthening the role of eu action in sport', the european parliament proposes that the eu focus on issues of international concern such as doping, illicit trafficking, athlete mobility, racism and violence in sport. the commission is also proposing to examine and deal with money laundering, match fixing, human trafficking and the exploitation of minors. it is also proposed to establish a european register of persons who have shown aggressive behaviour during matches in the past as a result of illness. the discussion of such problems at eu level could make a significant contribution to their solution and would create real added value for action at eu level in the sport sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it calls on the commission to propose, in the context of the public health benefits of sport and its social, cultural and economic benefits, an ambitious budget for a specific sport policy under the future mff. sport for people of all ages is an important area with great potential to improve the overall health of europeans and the eu and the member states are therefore encouraged to promote participation in sport and to promote healthy lifestyles, making full use of the opportunities offered by sport, as this will ultimately reduce healthcare costs. it is welcome that attention is being paid to persons with disabilities by encouraging them to take part in sporting activities and by providing adequate funding for the development of disabled sport and competition, in particular by providing access to sport and equal opportunities for disabled people to participate in sport and to use a free sports facility adapted to the needs of disabled athletes. sport plays an important role in ensuring social inclusion, public health and volunteering across borders, and the promotion of physical and sporting activities makes a significant contribution to public health cost savings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because sport is not only a key public health tool, but also a social and cultural phenomenon and a dynamic economic sector. sport is also an important tool for development policy. in this context, it is also necessary to coordinate joint action at eu level in the sports sector. an ambitious budget must be earmarked to achieve this objective. given the benefits of sport, both the eu as a whole and each member state must encourage citizens to participate in sport and promote healthy lifestyles. particular attention shall be paid to the integration of disabled persons into sporting activities. i support the proposal to regulate the profession of sports agent and to establish a european register of agents to help protect athletes from the risk of conflicts of interest. furthermore, in order to prevent doping and other forms of manipulation at sporting events, member states should be encouraged to exchange information, experience and good practice on a regular basis.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur that sport can encourage our citizens to contribute to society and help to strengthen a sense of social inclusion. we can learn a lot from sport: the recent eurobasket in lithuania demonstrated the enthusiasm, purpose and unity that are sadly lacking in lithuanian politics and public life. in lithuania, sports are very poorly funded. this is understandable in view of the economic crisis that has struck my country. but we can't blame the economic crisis for the lack of funding for sports. another problem is the weak administration of the lithuanian sports system. last year lithuania's sports budget was 39 million litas (just over 11 million euros). for example, the sports budget in latvia is almost double that. greater transparency and better governance are needed. part of the problem is the distribution of funds - while some of the larger lithuanian sports federations receive the bulk of the funding, a few dozen federations are left without incentives. the issue of sustainable financing of lithuanian sports should be further examined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution initiated by the ep (epp group) based on fact-finding visits and petitions of european citizens to the parliament concerning the environment, in particular the inappropriate application by the member states of the waste management directive (new plants, landfills and incinerators). three main problems were identified: a lack of a sound environmental impact assessment and public consultations in the permission procedure for landfills; incorrect operation of waste management facilities and deficiencies in waste management systems. i agree that the ep, at eu level, should urge the member states to speed up the transposition of the waste framework directive into national law, that there should be reinforcement of the existing european environment agency for monitoring purposes rather than creating new instances, and that the member states should be recommended to impose, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle, adequate and dissuasive fines and penalties for illegal disposal of waste, especially with regard to toxic and hazardous waste.
in writing. − the european parliament's committee on petitions receives an increasing number of complaints about the inability of the public authorities in many member states to deal adequately with the problem of waste management. failure to address these problems and to prioritise them negatively affects not only human health and well-being but also the prospects for the planet. waste management is becoming a major political and social issue, and people are looking to the european union to solve it. i agree that the commission needs to take a much bigger role and be much more active in identifying persistent shortcomings in the implementation of the waste directives by member states and taking action against member states if they fail to properly comply with their obligations under eu law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because a large number of citizens of the european union are petitioning about the non-disposal of waste, and most of the petitions are related to waste treatment plants. citizens' petitions show that they believe the authorities are not in control of the situation and in some cases are not prepared to make the effort needed to find solutions, and that trust has been shaken, open confrontation has occurred and a deadlock has arisen, which has impeded action. in addition, most eu citizens expect public authorities to provide effective and efficient public services in the areas of health, education, transport and security. the apparent inability of public authorities in many member states to deal adequately with the problem of waste management is thus a determining factor in the increasing number of petitions. the european parliament calls on the eu member states to transpose the waste framework directive into their national law without delay and to ensure that all the requirements set out therein are met, in particular the requirement to draw up and implement detailed waste management plans, as well as to amend in a timely manner all the targets set under eu legislation. in addition, the commission should closely monitor the transposition of the eu directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law in the member states to ensure that this is done in a timely and effective manner.
in writing. − i supported the report because most european citizens expect public authorities to provide effective and efficient public services in the areas of health, education, transport and security. however, in many countries the apparent inability of the authorities to deal adequately with the problem of waste management is a determining factor in the increasing number of petitions. member states must ensure that any decision on a new waste management, in particular on the incineration or methane production of a facility or, in the worst case, the installation or construction of a new landfill, is subject to a full and mandatory environmental impact assessment. the commission is invited to propose clearer and more specific criteria for the location of landfills, taking into account the distance to local dwellings, schools or health facilities, in order to provide greater guarantees for the protection of human health and the environment against potential hazards, bearing in mind that there are many variable and site-specific circumstances that need to be taken into account. i believe that the achievement of the recycling and prevention objectives set out in the legislation requires the active involvement of civil society, the increased involvement of stakeholders and better information for the public. the recommendations in this report should help to improve the implementation of waste management policies in the future.
in writing. − in the resolution adopted today, we have highlighted two very important aspects. first, the need for the commission and the member states to pay greater attention to informing the public about the necessity and benefits of waste management. currently, in some member states, sorting is slowing down, mainly because of a lack of public confidence in its benefits. secondly, the specific impact of the environmental impact assessment process on the transparency of waste management. it is the lack of clarity and public awareness in the design and construction of waste management facilities (in particular incineration plants and landfills) that leads to waste crises and even disasters during the rdp (as shown by real examples in italy, spain and other countries). therefore, in the next review of the ppp directive, we need to make more efforts to ensure that the public is properly and effectively involved in the consultation, that their views are taken into account and that the process itself is transparent and independent.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in particular, in order to properly implement the waste management directive and other related legislation and to develop effective waste management strategies, it is necessary to allocate appropriate funding from the cohesion fund or the european investment bank for the installation of infrastructure and facilities. in addition, member states must carry out monitoring, inspections and other necessary actions at all stages of the waste management chain. i believe that common eu standards for the colour labelling of waste by category should be established for the sorting and recycling of waste. it is also essential to ensure that environmental impact assessments are mandatory before any decision is taken on a new waste facility, in particular the installation or construction of a new landfill. in addition, local authorities should engage in a constructive dialogue with local populations in order to reduce their resistance. local residents must be assured that the licensing and operating authorities are transparent and properly compliant. i think the commission should impose dissuasive penalties for illegal waste disposal. in addition, greater attention should be paid to the impact of all forms of organised crime on environmental crime.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution reporting the daphne programme’s success and suggesting a number of improvements to correct imbalances that have arisen, e.g. in the breakdown of projects between member states. i agree that this eu initiative running from 1997 was undoubtedly beneficial to eu citizens and, therefore, the daphne objectives in the new programme should be maintained. i agree to the proposal to maintain the daphne programme for smaller ngos and also to the list of programme intervention in recital k containing a list of types of violence against women and children, including sexual abuse, rape, domestic violence, prostitution, trafficking and violation of women’s health and reproductive rights. the success of this programme over 15 years indicates how extremely important for eu, and especially lithuanian, citizens is the continuity of the programme.
in writing. − the daphne programme, established in 1997, aims to combat violence against children, young people and women. given the success, effectiveness and popularity of the daphne programme, its continuity and adequate funding must be ensured. the new generation programme will focus on women, children and young people who are at particular risk of violence due to social exclusion. i support the call for member states to collect data on violence against women on a regular basis in order to understand the scale of the problem in the eu, and for the commission to provide more funding for projects aimed at informing the public, and in particular people at risk of violence, about the new forms of violence associated with the increasing use of online social networks (threats, psychological pressure, victims, child pornography on the internet). this type of violence is more disguised than other forms of violence, but it can be just as traumatic physically and psychologically.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because the daphne programme is the only programme of its kind aimed at combating violence against women, children and young people throughout the european union. since its launch in 1997, the programme has been a real success: firstly, it has been popular with stakeholders (beneficiaries, public and academic institutions, non-governmental organisations) and, secondly, the projects financed by the programme have been implemented effectively. it is therefore essential to ensure continued funding for the daphne programme in order to continue the implementation of the measures currently in place and to introduce new measures that are effective in combating all forms of violence against children, young people and women. the daphne programme is a crucial tool to promote greater public awareness of violence against women and to provide women's organisations and other relevant stakeholders with the opportunity to develop their activities and concrete actions in this area. the daphne programme will be integrated into the rights and citizenship programme from 2014, but it is essential to ensure that the objectives of the programme, in particular the objective to combat violence against women, remain within the objectives of the new rights and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020. moreover, given the success, effectiveness and popularity of this programme, the next generation programme should continue to ensure its high funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as it seeks to strengthen the impact of the programme and asks the commission to continue to pay particular attention to women, children and young people who are particularly at risk of violence because of social exclusion and marginalisation. i also agree with the need to increase funding for projects aimed at informing young people in particular about the new forms of violence associated with increased use of online social networks (threats, psychological pressure, bullying, child pornography on the internet). this type of violence is more disguised than other forms of violence, but it can be just as traumatic physically and psychologically. the aim of european, national and all of our policies is to prevent and combat violence against women, children and young people.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which looks at the achievements and future prospects of the daphne programme. it is important to note that this programme is of great importance and is necessary to prevent violence against women, children and young people throughout the european union. it should be noted that such violence includes all forms of human rights violations. in this context, there is a need to continuously improve the dissemination of the programme in the member states, as well as the cooperation between different organisations. in addition, the prevention and reduction of gender-based violence inevitably requires legislation at european level and substantial funding.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i am very much in favour of the daphne initiative, which aims to combat violence against young people and women, even with a small amount of money and the sharing of experience. i am therefore very concerned that the report shows that certain member states, including lithuania, are very poorly represented in the daphne programme. according to data provided by lithuanian non-governmental organisations (ngos), 63% of lithuanian women have experienced physical or sexual violence or threats. the vast majority of these women said that the experience had made them feel hated and powerless. most disturbingly, only 10.6 percent of all victims reported serious incidents to the police. according to the lithuanian women's information center, police and courts avoid domestic violence cases unless the victim is severely beaten or killed. police resources against criminals are often limited. the network of crisis centres provides inadequate assistance to victims of violence. in 2011, there were 15 crisis centres and 6 shelters for battered women in lithuania, but they do not cover the whole country and only 2 of them are financed by municipalities. this is too big a problem to leave to ngos. politicians should take decisive action.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because sexual violence mass rape, trafficking in human beings and other forms of sexual violence against women and children are still unacceptably used as a tactic of war in conflict regions around the world. in addition, the lack of governance in post-conflict areas may lead to a deterioration in the situation of women and girls, as was the case in libya and egypt. sexual violence in conflict has devastating consequences for victims, including physical (risk of infertility, transmission of sexually transmitted diseases, etc.) and psychological consequences, as victims are often condemned, rejected, abused, shamed, and often ostracized from the community, and sometimes even killed. the families of the victims also suffer greatly, as sexual violence is considered degrading. the impunity of perpetrators of sexual violence is also a major concern, as illustrated by the armed conflict in colombia, where sexual violence against women is systematic and covert, with perpetrators escaping virtually all punishment. this form of violence should therefore be considered a war crime. to improve this situation, the post of eusr for women, peace and security should be created. the creation of such an office would make all policies and actions more coherent and effective, and would provide the united nations with a focal point through which to cooperate in more similar ways.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because i believe that women in peacekeeping operations play an important role in military and/or civilian organisations, as role models, as mediators between cultures and as promoters of greater empowerment for women, and as breakers of stereotypes for local men. gender considerations should be addressed from the very beginning of the planning of civilian and security missions. history has repeatedly shown that warfare is a highly male-dominated activity and therefore it is to be expected that the particular capacities of women to engage in dialogue and non-violent action can make a significant contribution to the peaceful prevention and management of conflicts. the commission, the eeas and parliament's delegations must find ways to encourage developing countries that have not yet done so to sign, ratify and implement the 1998 rome statute (relating to the international criminal court), as this is a necessary step to protect women's rights in war situations and to avoid impunity for criminals.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because in armed conflicts women and children are often the first civilian victims of the belligerents. i am thinking in particular of the use of mass rape as a weapon of war, and of sexual violence which often goes unpunished. this report emphasises the role and place of women in military and civilian peacekeeping operations, particularly the role they can play in conflict and peace negotiations. the report also calls for zero tolerance for sexual violence and sexual exploitation of children and women in armed conflict and refugee camps. it strongly condemns the use of sexual violence against women as a weapon of war, equating this form of violence to a "war crime". we call for an end to impunity for perpetrators of sexual violence and for women who have been victims of abuse and violence to be able to bring complaints before international courts under conditions compatible with their dignity.
in writing. − in armed conflict, women and girls are often easy targets. violence against women has long-term consequences for the victims themselves, their families, communities and ultimately societies. in some parts of the world, sexual crimes and other forms of violence against women are war tactics and demoralising tactics, and are justified, deliberate and encouraged. the definition of war crimes should therefore be supplemented in order to treat sexual crimes as any other war crime and to eliminate the possibility of avoiding responsibility for such crimes. the positive role of women in conflict prevention and reconciliation is not sufficiently recognised and exploited. i therefore voted in favour of the report, which highlights the diversity of the problem and sets out a number of proposals which, if implemented, i believe would make greater progress in protecting women and children from sexual violence in armed conflict.
in writing. − i believe that we must make every effort to prevent sexual violence in all its forms in conflict regions around the world. in this context, it is necessary to provide for specific provisions to enable women to be more effectively protected against various forms of sexual offences. appropriate funding must be allocated to these objectives. in addition, discrimination against women and stereotypes in promotion policies and in job-promotion companies must be prevented. each person, irrespective of his or her sex, shall be appointed to the appropriate post in accordance with his or her abilities and competence. it is important to note that not only the eu but also developing countries must take certain steps to protect women's rights in war situations and to end impunity for criminals. these countries must sign, ratify and implement the rome statute as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution aiming to support the objective of universal energy access by 2030 bringing greater attention to how the international community could generate funding (usd 756 billion by 2032) for central and more sustainable forms of energy generation across the world. i agree that the debate on sustainable energy access and consumption should be in parallel with the eradication of poverty with the establishment of a specific ‘energy and development’ programme within eu development cooperation policy. moreover, the use of renewable energy resources should be at the heart, as they can offer an economic solution in developing countries with benefits to health, the environment and local development, as well as the fight against climate change. we, members of european parliament, call on the developing countries to commit seriously to the goal of universal energy access, and recommend increased assistance to ministries of energy in developing countries to enable them to make the case for support, including the development of long-term sustainable energy strategies and improved regional cooperation in energy matters.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i agree that energy services affect all aspects of human life and livelihood and that without access to these services, entire communities are condemned to poverty. the european union must therefore, in contributing to the millennium development goals, continuously seek ways to contribute as effectively as possible to the accessibility of energy services for all. the european parliament stresses in its resolution the need to increase the use of renewable energy sources and calls for eu financial support to be directed specifically to promoting the use of these resources. the european parliament also notes that the european energy fund is one of the few financial mechanisms operating on an international scale and that it is therefore necessary to review the effectiveness and efficiency of the mechanism in the preparation of the new multiannual financial perspective (2014-2020). in its report, parliament also stressed that an effective partnership between the public sector, the private sector, communities and local authorities will be needed to expand access to sustainable energy services. parliament also recognises that the public sector alone cannot meet all the financing needs needed to expand access to electricity, and therefore draws attention to the importance of private investors and market-oriented reforms in the energy sector.
in writing. − i voted for this document because access to modern energy services is essential to reduce poverty and promote sustainable social development of people. unless decisive action is taken to improve the situation, some 67% of the population will still be without access to electricity in 2015. over the past decade, access to energy resources for the poor has been modestly funded. bilateral cooperation between eu member states in energy aid has been directed primarily at economic growth and environmental objectives, rather than at the access of the poor to energy resources. transparent, democratic participation of civil society, local authorities and regulators in the energy sector is important to enable them to monitor the implementation of universal energy access, to ensure good governance and fair competition and to curb corruption.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for reducing poverty and ensuring sustainable social development. each country is responsible for ensuring access to universal services, but not every developing country is able to ensure access to energy resources for poor people on its own. the eu's contribution in this area must therefore be very strong and substantial, including funding, capacity building, technology transfer and governance reform. the eu needs to develop clear and precise guidelines on environmental sustainability criteria and other initiatives to ensure that modern sustainable energy services are available to all. it is worth noting that developing countries are currently under-represented and under-funded in terms of increasing access to energy resources for the poor.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the report contains important measures to combat the lack of local electricity and the high levels of poverty in the developing world. some of the projections made by the rapporteur raise concerns in 2015, some 67% of sub-saharan africa is still likely to be without access to electricity. maybe not, but ordinary lithuanians are going through a hard time too. according to eurostat, the highest price jump for electricity in lithuania between the second half of 2009 and last year was 31%. meanwhile, the eu price of electricity increased by 5,1% over the same period. since 1 january 2012, the price of electricity in lithuania has increased by 1,4 ct/kwh. the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant was one of the conditions for accession to the eu, which significantly changed the structure of electricity production in lithuania. our leaders lack a comprehensive and realistic electricity strategy for lithuania. in early 2010, prime minister kubilius said that nothing bad would happen if the plant was closed. we're prepared to supply as much power as we need. although no harm was done, the situation of most lithuanians with regard to electricity deteriorated.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the ep annual report on taxation issues. the report focuses on the tax initiatives taken by the commission during 2011 and on areas where further initiatives are necessary in order to improve the functioning of the single market and to create a more competitive europe. the report also stresses that improvement of the single market and eventually some tax harmonisation could be key factors for encouraging growth and job creation; that tax policies must aim to foster european competitiveness and lower costs for european business, namely for small and medium enterprises. i agree with the rapporteur’s proposal that the ep should ask the commission and member states to cooperate further on their respective tax policies against double taxation, tax fraud and tax evasion in order to increase transparency and reduce loopholes and uncertainties for businesses and citizens with regard to tax collection. to make the taxation process more coherent, i support the ep call upon the commission in cooperation with the european parliament to establish an eu definition and list – taking into account, as a first step, the oecd definition and list of tax havens or secrecy jurisdictions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the first time that the european parliament has published its annual report on taxation, with the aim of contributing to the european commission's work in this area. indeed, the current economic and financial crisis has led to a significant increase in the debt of member states, and robust fiscal consolidation and a fairer and more accurate distribution of the tax burden are therefore essential to ensure fiscal sustainability. in this context, where both cost reductions and tax increases are needed, it is crucial that growth-oriented tax changes are prioritised. it is also crucial to remember that in these circumstances, now more than ever, we need to ensure that, alongside austerity measures, automatic stabilisers of the social security system are in place in all countries to ensure growth and social cohesion. the european parliament therefore calls for closer coordination of tax policies in the european union, which would reduce costs and administrative burdens for citizens and businesses, and stresses the need to simplify the procedure for paying vat in order to eliminate double taxation and red tape for employers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i believe that low taxes are necessary not only for the welfare of social families and households, but also for the competitiveness of new jobs. however, it is also important to control and use public expenditure efficiently and to pursue stable public finances. the commission's taxation proposals should contribute to the eu's competitiveness by removing the distortions of competition that arise from the different tax systems in place. the commission and the member states should continue to cooperate in developing their respective tax policies aimed at combating double taxation, tax fraud and tax evasion, in order to increase transparency and reduce gaps and uncertainties for businesses and citizens in relation to tax collection, in particular with regard to their respective administrative procedures for filing tax returns. member states should aim to reduce the costs of tax compliance for smes by simplifying procedures and reducing red tape where possible. it is clear that member states have different corporate tax bases, which in practice can become cross-border barriers to trade, hindering growth and employment.
in writing. − low taxes are necessary not only for social welfare but also for competitiveness of new jobs. it should be noted that taxation is a matter of national sovereignty. in this context, each member state should aim to reduce the tax burden, paying particular attention to smes. it is also essential that tax policies, both in the eu and in the member states, are directed against double taxation, tax fraud, tax evasion and abuse. i believe that the commission's taxation proposals should first and foremost increase the competitiveness of the eu and ensure the efficient functioning of the single market, but should in no way increase the tax burden. the vat payment procedure should also be simplified and bureaucracy reduced. taking into account the interests of citizens and businesses, a clear, transparent and stable tax environment should be established, which would eliminate the cross-border tax obstacles, discrimination and double taxation of citizens and businesses that currently still exist.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution welcoming the commission report on competition policy 2010. to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the report on competition policy, this year’s edition begins with an overview of the major developments of competition policy and enforcement over the past 40 years. i agree with the rapporteur that eu competition policy has brought numerous benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has been an essential tool to eliminate obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. i agree on the emphasis that the ongoing consolidation in the banking sector has actually increased the market share of several major financial institutions and, therefore, the commission has to maintain a close watch on the sector in order to enhance competition in european banking markets. we, members of european parliament, recall the parliament’s invitation to the commission during the early steps of the implementation of the third energy package to closely monitor the level of competition; it also asks the commission to intensify the efforts that it is making in order to open up competition in the credit rating agencies sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because competition policy is an essential tool for the european union to create a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market and to be competitive on the global stage. the european parliament welcomes the commission's prompt and reasonable response to the crisis by adopting specific state aid rules and using competition policy as a crisis management tool. the large amount of state aid provided during the crisis, for example in the form of guarantee schemes, recapitalisation schemes and additional liquidity support provided by banks, contributed to the large imbalances in public finances. the commission should further investigate the competitive situation in the retail sector, in particular in relation to the alleged abuse of market power by dominant retail chains to the detriment of small retailers and producers in the agri-food market. the european parliament also believes that competition policy should contribute to the promotion of open standards and to the application and interoperability of activities, in order to avoid that the small number of market participants prevents consumers and customers from participating in the development of technologies.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as protectionism and non-compliance with competition rules would only deepen and prolong the crisis, and competition policy is an essential tool for the eu to create a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market and to be competitive on the global stage. despite all efforts to combat the economic crisis, cartels remain a major threat to competition, consumer welfare and the proper functioning of markets and cannot be tolerated, especially in times of economic crisis. eu competition policy has brought many benefits to consumer welfare and remains the main instrument for removing barriers to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. competition policy remains the main instrument for safeguarding the single market and protecting consumers' interests. only by combining strong principles with flexible procedures can competition policy be a constructive and stabilising factor in the eu's financial system and the real economy in general. i believe that greater price transparency is essential to promote competition in the single market and to give consumers real choice.
in writing. − competition policy is an important crisis management tool for shipping. it also helped to create the single market and to boost the eu's economic growth. in view of its contribution, a new, permanent framework for the regulation of state aid rules, operating under stronger and stricter rules, especially in the case of aid to the banking sector, must be established. however, it is essential that the state aid does not distort competition but encourages entrepreneurship. in addition, competition policy must be conducted on the basis of a comprehensive approach to the internal market, with particular attention to citizens, consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. i believe that the commission must develop as a matter of urgency a system for solving the problems of europe's troubled banks, which would allow it to respond quickly to the difficulties it faces and to take more effective decisions.
in writing. the european commission's move to channel the remaining eu structural funds to support smes and tackle youth unemployment is welcome. this eur 82 million injection is expected to help tackle youth unemployment by finding ways to reduce the rate of youth unemployment rapidly. it is great that we are talking about efforts to develop internship opportunities or incentives for employers to hire young people. but this financial injection and momentary attention or measures are far from the panacea. even now, with youth unemployment high on the political agenda, it is necessary to look for targeted measures that are truly effective in a fast-moving and dynamic eu market. we have been saying for many years that we need to strengthen the link between business and education and to promote cooperation between them in order to bridge the gap between them. it is the gap between business and education that is the main cause of the huge youth unemployment: employers constantly stress that young people lack specific skills and practical skills and that their expectations of pay do not correspond to reality. another concern is that the eu education system does not focus on the development of young people's entrepreneurship, their ability not only to take up jobs but also to create them. it is to be hoped that the ec experts, in consultation with the member states, will pay due attention not only to the current youth unemployment crisis but also to the search for integrated solutions in the education, social affairs and economic sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal related to the management of the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy in order to fight against infringements of intellectual property rights, increase the awareness of public and private sectors of the impact of counterfeiting and piracy and inform consumers of the dangers related to the purchase of fake products. i supported adjusting the observatory’s title to its more extended role by changing its name from ‘european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy’ to ‘european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights’. i also supported the proposal to clarify the scope of the regulation in line with directive 2004/48.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the europe 2020 strategy is based on a smart growth foundation, which consists of promoting creativity, knowledge and innovation. over the next decade, it is necessary to improve the eu's research performance and to ensure a greater uptake of smart products and services in the market. the successful establishment of the single market for research will depend on the effective protection of intellectual property rights. the increasing number of intellectual property infringements in recent years (a study in 2010 shows that piracy in the music, film, television and software sectors cost the eu some eur 10 billion and led to the loss of over 185 000 jobs in 2008) is undermining investment in innovation, destroying jobs, threatening the health and safety of european consumers and preventing the expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises. i agree that the office for harmonization in the internal market should be strengthened to this end, with certain tasks relating to the protection of intellectual property rights, which would help to better understand the extent of infringements of intellectual property rights and to respond to them more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's position on the european commission's proposal to combat piracy and infringements of intellectual property rights. the commission has proposed to the european parliament to merge the management of two separate bodies set up respectively to collect information on intellectual property and trade marks and to combat infringements of intellectual property rights. this will make them more efficient and save money. this proposal was very well received by the european parliament, which had already asked the commission in 2010 to strengthen the role of the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights, and this will be possible by entrusting the office for harmonisation in the internal market, which was established in 1996, with certain additional resource-intensive tasks. the new structure of the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights, with additional resources, will therefore include: more transparent governance based on a clear, predefined methodology; greater accountability to the european parliament, the commission and civil society; and a balanced representation of the interests of industry, consumers, small businesses and independent creators. it is important to note that the european monitoring centre for infringements of intellectual property rights will not retain any functions that could be equated to the role of law enforcement authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because the economic prosperity of the union depends on sustainable creativity and innovation. effective measures to protect them are therefore necessary to ensure their future welfare. intellectual property rights are a vital part of business assets they help to ensure that creators and innovators are properly remunerated for their work and that their investments in research and new ideas are protected. we need a sound, coherent and progressive approach to intellectual property rights. the ever-increasing scale of infringements of intellectual property rights poses a real threat not only to the union's economy but also, often, to the health and safety of consumers in the union. therefore, effective and coordinated action at national, european and global levels is urgently needed to successfully combat this phenomenon. taking into account the need to protect intellectual property rights the council invited the commission to set up a european monitoring centre on counterfeiting and piracy. the centre should be the main centre for the collection, monitoring and presentation of information and data relating to all infringements of intellectual property rights. it should become a platform for cooperation between national authorities and stakeholders to exchange ideas and expertise on best practices and to provide policy-makers with recommendations on common rights strategies.
in writing. − i support this resolution as it is necessary to promote greater cooperation between member states and the eu institutions. in particular, private-public cooperation should be encouraged by improving cooperation in the field of law enforcement. it should be noted that no legal regulation should create an additional administrative burden. in order to promote economic growth, employment and cultural diversity, it is necessary to develop new competitive business models that expand the legitimate supply of cultural and creative content. the ipr monitoring centre should therefore become a platform for cooperation between national authorities and stakeholders to help prevent infringements of intellectual property rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the proposed directive because there is an increasing demand for access to information on companies in a cross-border context, either for commercial purposes or to facilitate access to justice. cross-border groups, as well as many restructuring operations such as mergers and divisions, involve companies from different member states of the eu. cross-border access to business information requires cooperation between business registers. some cooperation between them already exists, but it is limited to certain types of information and does not cover all member states. this proposal will benefit the citizens of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to ensure technical interoperability between existing national registers. the interoperability of business registers is an important tool to promote further integration of the economic area within the european union and to ensure greater legal clarity for businesses and citizens. currently, commercial registers are managed at national and regional level and there are everywhere factual and legal differences in their legal significance and the reliability of the records. the increasing scale of cross-border economic activities in the eu requires greater legal clarity and transparency and better interaction between business registers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to simplify the exchange of business information at european union level. the exchange of information in business registers is currently regulated by several directives in the european union, but these registers are managed at national and regional level and vary widely in terms of their legal significance and the reliability of the records. as the scale of cross-border economic activities increases, better interaction between business registers is necessary for legal clarity and transparency. it is important to note that this directive will only cover the exchange of information already contained in the national registers and will not create a commercial register with separate data. the aim is to create a platform that will help improve and accelerate communication and access to information for citizens and businesses. such an eu business data platform will provide greater legal clarity for businesses, potential investors and citizens.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because the increasing scale of economic activity across borders and the need for legal clarity and transparency require better interaction between business registers. this would save time and money. the interoperability of registers will make it possible to make effective use of the possibilities of electronic register management. the purpose of this directive is to ensure technical interoperability between existing national registers only and not to harmonise legal implications. the exchange of information contained in the registers is therefore limited and no separate trade repository is established. a platform will be created to improve and accelerate communication and access to information between citizens and businesses. however, the successful interaction of business registers can only be achieved through close cooperation between the commission and the member states. at the same time, this should help to ensure the reliability and accuracy of the information.
in writing. − the system of interoperability of business registers should not create an additional tax and administrative burden for business entities. it is also necessary to ensure that the functioning of such a system should not alter either the content of the company data stored in the national registers or the information on companies transmitted through the system of central, commercial and companies registers. adequate funding is necessary for this interaction of business registers to function effectively. however, member states should not be subject to an additional financial burden in relation to the adaptation of national registers to this system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, whereby the parliament gives its consent to the new protocol of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau. while maintaining the provision of financial assistance to guinea-bissau, it renews the terms of the previous protocol and contains an additional clause providing for its suspension should human rights and democratic principles not be respected. i agree with the rapporteur on the need to monitor closely the implementation of the measures set out in the council decision of 18 july 2011 concerning the conclusion of the consultation procedure with the republic of guinea-bissau under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. i strongly support the ep position that article 9 of the cotonou agreement must be respected and its emphasis on the need to monitor the human rights situation in guinea-bissau.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives the european parliament its consent to the conclusion of a new fisheries partnership protocol between the european union and guinea-bissau. this protocol sets out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation for eu countries in the territorial waters of guinea-bissau. the new protocol sets out the allocation of fishing opportunities among the member states concerned, while the fishing conditions remain essentially unchanged. however, the new protocol contains additional provisions on the suspension and review of the payment of financial compensation and on the suspension of the application of the protocol to this agreement in the event of violation by guinea-bissau of fundamental and fundamental principles of human rights and democracy. under the protocol to the fisheries agreement, eur 7,5 million is allocated to a limited number of european union vessels for a one-year fishing licence, part of which is intended to support the policy of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector and to improve sanitary fishing conditions.
in writing. − i supported the conclusion of the memorandum of understanding as it appeared to be relevant to the needs of guinea-bissau as a key contributor to macroeconomic and budgetary stability and as a driver of the country's fisheries policy, as it provided the financial conditions for the implementation of important measures in the sector to support economic development and sustainability (which, according to the evaluation report, represented on average 7.3% of annual government revenues and about 88% of budgetary expenditure on fisheries). this agreement has had a particular impact in reducing iuu fishing and has improved the sector's compliance with the sanitary requirements for eu trade in fishery products, two important conditions for the development of the country's fisheries sector. the fisheries partnership agreement is an important instrument for maintaining the enlargement agenda in times of economic and budgetary instability. it also assisted the eu and the bissau guinea authorities in continuing the political dialogue to promote responsible fishing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which endorses the conclusion of a new protocol between the european union and guinea-bissau. it should be noted that guinea-bissau has substantial coastal and ocean fish stocks. the protocol will also benefit both parties to the agreement in order to continue the political dialogue to promote responsible fishing. i agree with the new provision in the protocol that financial compensation for violations of fundamental and fundamental principles of human rights and democracy should be suspended. it is also appropriate to suspend the application of the protocol if guinea-bissau does not make efforts to make its fisheries responsible and sustainable.
in writing. − the kingdom of morocco has embarked on a comprehensive process of political, economic and social reforms for several years, and the eu has consistently supported morocco's efforts to implement reform programmes. on 13 october 2008, the european union and the kingdom of morocco adopted a 'joint eu-morocco document on the strengthening of bilateral relations and the enhancement of the status of morocco'. the high-level status reflects a shared desire to support the country's reform process through a structured open dialogue with human rights as its main theme. i supported this report and the support it expressed for the continuation and strengthening of the dialogue through the eu-morocco summits, the association council meetings and the work of the subcommittee on human rights, democratisation and governance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses the european parliament's position on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco on the participation of morocco in eu programmes. the european parliament has given its consent to the conclusion of this agreement, which will enable the european union to play a more active role in supporting economic development and other positive developments in neighbouring morocco. this approval confirmed the higher level of participation of morocco in eu programmes. the major changes taking place on the southern mediterranean coast since the tunisian revolution and the subsequent developments in neighbouring countries are indeed an incentive for the eu to support even more the aspirations of the people of these countries to develop a partnership with the european union. this agreement allows morocco to participate in all current and future community programmes open to morocco. it also encourages morocco to intensify its current reforms, as well as future reforms, while giving citizens and society the opportunity to contribute much more actively to the implementation of these reforms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol, as the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the eu and morocco on the general principles for the participation of the kingdom of morocco in community programmes marks a decisive stage in bilateral relations. it allows morocco to participate in all current and future community programmes open to morocco. this new perspective is in line with the objectives of the new eu neighbourhood policy. through this protocol, the eu strongly supports and encourages morocco to further pursue the reforms it has initiated and to embark on new reforms, while ensuring effective citizen participation.
in writing. − i believe that the admission of morocco to the activities of eu agencies and to current and future programmes is a great example of the right of morocco to develop its partnership with the eu and to gradually integrate into the eu internal market. i support this agreement because political and strategic cooperation goes hand in hand with economic and financial cooperation. the agreement also provides for a higher status for morocco, which will provide an incentive for morocco to pursue the reforms it has undertaken and those it is pursuing. it will also facilitate a constructive and open dialogue on human rights.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because bluetongue has caused a great economic loss in the eu over the last decade and the aim is to make the vaccination against bluetongue in ruminants (cattle, sheep, goats) more flexible.
in writing. - i support this resolution because it is becoming increasingly difficult to control the spread of the bluetongue virus. in this context, it is necessary to provide for more flexibility in the vaccination against bluetongue and to allow the vaccination of animals in areas where their movement is not restricted, as the disease may become endemic in some areas. it should be noted that vaccination of animals against bluetongue is the only effective measure for prevention and control. in addition, vaccination reduces the economic losses caused by trade restrictions and reduced animal productivity and stops the spread of the disease over a larger area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it aims at establishing an internal market for payment services in euro (single euro payments area or sepa) in which there is no difference of regime between cross-border and national payments. this decision may well bring benefits to the european economy that could amount to eur 100-300 billion in six years time. i believe this proposal will benefit eu citizens as the regulation eliminates the need for consumers to provide a bic code for domestic payments. the consumer only needs to provide the iban code and the bank will automatically establish the bic without extra charge. for cross-border payments, this requirement will be enforced on 1 february 2016. a member state may also allow consumers to use bban instead of iban for two extra years, but the banks need to provide the conversion services for free. i also support the parliament’s proposal that there be no extra charges for payments above eur 50 000.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. secure and efficient payment systems are an essential prerequisite for economic transactions and the proper functioning of the internal market. since 2002, cash payments have been made easier for member states using the euro. however, for a number of reasons, electronic union-wide payment instruments have not yet replaced national payments. this has led to market uncertainty, a difficult economic climate, a lack of legal certainty and high costs for dual payment systems. i agree that it is urgent to create an internal market for euro payments (single euro payments area sepa) with effective competition and no distinction between international and national payment systems, which would save considerable money and benefit the european economy as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to create a single area for payments in euro throughout europe, otherwise known as sepa. sepa is an area where national and international payments in euro are treated on the same terms as if they were intra-country payments in euro. its objective is to increase competition and encourage new services. the proper implementation of these rules in the member states will therefore make international payments in euro as convenient and fast as local payments in euro. such a single banking system would make a significant contribution to reducing banking charges for both individuals and businesses, and at eu level, according to the european commission, would save around €100-300 billion. the implementation of this initiative will also speed up the timing of international banking transactions in euro. such banking operations are already required to be executed within 1 day as of 1 january this year and in the future it will be aimed to execute such operations in real time.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it provides that the guidelines for member states' employment policies, as set out in the council decision of 21 october 2010 on guidelines for member states' employment policies, will continue to apply in 2012 and will be taken into account by member states in their employment policies. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states and the union shall work towards developing a coordinated strategy for employment, in particular by developing a skilled, vocationally prepared and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are adaptable to economic change, in order to achieve the objectives set out in the treaty on european union. the analysis of the draft national reform programmes of the member states presented in the draft general report on employment shows that member states should continue their efforts in these priority areas in order to increase labour market participation and reduce structural unemployment, to develop a skilled workforce adapted to labour market needs and to promote good quality work and lifelong learning, to improve education and training systems at all levels and to encourage higher education, to foster social inclusion and to combat poverty. the employment guidelines adopted in 2010 should remain unchanged until 2014 in order to focus on their implementation. by the end of 2014, the guidelines should be updated only in a very limited way.
in writing. - i support this resolution, which lays down the rules for credit transfers and direct debit operations in euro. the integrated market for electronic payments in euro is important from an economic and political point of view. it will not only contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market and increase competition in payment services, but will also bring clear benefits to consumers. the eu single payment service will ensure that both citizens and businesses can use secure and reliable payment services at a lower cost, given that payment costs are currently very high in some countries.
and i am certainly glad that we have found a compromise solution that we can accept and which will allow us to provide the same level of food aid to the poorest of our people for the next two years until the new multiannual financial perspective. it is very important that the 500 million litas should come 100 per cent from the european union budget, and i am in favour of using only products and foodstuffs produced in the european union and not imported from elsewhere. indeed, the council's desire to reduce the amount of food aid at this difficult time, when the number of people in need of aid has indeed increased as a result of the crisis, is totally incomprehensible. i agree that there is a need for savings today, both at the level of the european union and in the member states, but this cannot be done by reducing aid to the growing number of the poorest. we all agree that saving certainly did not reduce them during the crisis and would not solve the problems of financial hardship in this place, but we would turn our backs on our citizens and remember the goals we set for ourselves a year ago to lift up to 20 million people out of poverty.
the abolition of milk quotas is a major change for the european milk sector, which could upset the balance of bargaining power between farmers and milk processors. it may also lead to unfair commercial practices in the setting of milk buying-in prices. such a process would particularly harm small producers, especially in countries with a high number of small farms. this is why the european union should support farmers' cooperation and organisation in producer associations and cooperatives. this would strengthen their bargaining power in the future. support for cooperation is particularly relevant in lithuania and in countries where farmers' cooperation has not been adequately supported. this will protect farmers from unfair competition in the milk sector. thank you, mr. nicholson, for a great negotiation.
i am one of those who think that if we confront the societies of the member states with the fact that they are losing some of their sovereignty and independence, we will not achieve the desired unity and financial control. i'm one of those people who thinks the new deal is gonna be a huge setback. by destroying a treaty whose draft has hitherto been inaccessible to the citizens of the member states, we are destroying the idea of a union of equal states. mr president, any question relating to the constitutional order of the member states, their independence and their statehood must not be decided behind closed doors but in national referendums.
in fact, there have been many bold and true words spoken in this hall today. we voted on the composition of the european commission two and a half years ago, and there were many good, beautiful plans put forward, which were also discussed today. and practically none of those plans have been implemented today, and it's recognized that many of the guidelines we've envisioned are not working today. today the greek minister of the interior made a statement that we must listen to very carefully. these consequences, which will now be borne by greece, will have to be borne by the european commission, because it has not agreed to extend or give greece hope that it will also be supported by the european union. we socialists have said many times that we have to address the social exclusion that exists in all countries, but we were profit-oriented, we were only focused on economic indicators, and social exclusion was very difficult, so i would like to ask the commission to take more personal responsibility, and that we actually feel that the situation of people on low incomes in each country is improving.
it is indeed very important to draw the attention of the european council to the fact that the social consequences of the crisis, such as unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, have been exacerbated by the excessive application of austerity measures by some european countries. this was particularly felt by young people, pensioners, disabled people, the long-term unemployed and low-skilled workers. unfortunately, the reality is that working poverty is increasing in the european union. this means that jobs are increasingly substandard, insecure and low paid, and it is therefore necessary to stress in the governing council that budgetary management, growth and employment measures need to be considered together, as they are all interdependent and are a necessary condition for economic recovery.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the financial crisis, followed by the social crisis, has made it very clear that the union needs better economic governance. this is particularly necessary in the employment and labour market sector. unemployment in the eu has risen sharply since 2008 to 23 million people, or 10 per cent of the working age population. this is an average for the union as a whole, and there are member states with much higher unemployment rates, especially the new eu members. the labour market is particularly difficult for young people, regardless of their education, who are offered contracts with no guarantee of employment. maintaining the potential of the young generation in the economy requires the european council to give priority to the issue of youth unemployment and to develop an effective strategy for young people in the european union. this strategy should be developed in close cooperation with the social partners and should include the european youth guarantee. under it, member states would ensure that every young person in the eu has the right to be offered employment, vocational training or further training after a maximum period of unemployment of no more than six months. similar initiatives are mentioned in mrs cornelissen's report and deserve a thorough analysis. this should go hand in hand with the european council's budgetary incentive to invest in sustainable job creation in as many sectors of the economy as possible.
today in the plenary i voted for the distribution of food to the poorest of the poor. as the european union is experiencing economic recession and rising unemployment, the number of europeans living in poverty is unfortunately increasing, and it is therefore essential to ensure that the food programme to alleviate the situation of these most vulnerable people continues. it is also important that the continued main funding of this programme be provided by the european union. why would you do that? because some member states are going through very difficult times and it would be too difficult for them. other actions are also important in this context. the european parliament has expressed its position on the introduction of double expiry dates for food. this could simplify the distribution of food aid, but the main thing should probably be the responsibility of the member states, i.e. that food aid actually reaches the people who need it most, so as to avoid any abuse. this should be ensured by the member states and the relevant authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important result of negotiations with the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation on the participation by those states in the work of the committees which assist the commission in the exercise of its executive powers as regards the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. i support the final outcome of the agreement by which, among other activities, the associated states will be associated as observers with the work of the current and future comitology committees assisting the commission in schengen matters. i also support a joint declaration which stresses that this specific association shall not be regarded as a legal or political precedent for any other field of cooperation between the european community and those countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation on the participation by those states in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers in implementing, applying and developing the schengen acquis. the agreement provides for the participation of the associated states as observers in the work of the current and future comitology committees assisting the commission on matters relating to the schengen area. the list of committees of the schengen comitology will be updated regularly by the commission and published in the official journal. therefore, in order to ensure the effective participation of the associated states in the work of the committees of the schengen comitology, the agreement sets out clearly their rights and obligations.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that, in order to ensure consistency and equal treatment of the participation of all associated states, it is appropriate to conclude a single agreement granting iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland the right to participate as observers in the work of current and future committees assisting the european commission in matters relating to the schengen area. these parties will thus be able to express their views on any matter relating to the drafting, development or implementation of provisions of concern to them, but without the representatives of these states taking part in the voting of these committees. this will ensure the application and uniform implementation of the new schengen acts or instruments.
in writing. − employment policy is one of the main factors driving growth and jobs. i believe that each member state should pay particular attention to increasing flexibility and security in employment and removing obstacles to growth. social inclusion, the fight against poverty and the improvement of labour market functioning must be continuously strengthened. in particular, the opportunities for participation in the labour market must be increased and structural unemployment reduced. in addition, training systems and skills development adapted to labour market needs should be developed. only by implementing these and other measures under the employment guidelines will more and better jobs be created across europe and employment-generating growth be encouraged.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i am concerned about the low employment rate in the eu countries and i agree that eu policy guidelines are needed to tackle this problem. youth unemployment, as high as 49% in some countries, precarious and low-paid jobs, a shortage of suitably qualified workers, social exclusion and the fight against poverty are common challenges across the eu. therefore, only joint action and coherent policies can ensure sustainable growth. i agree that member states must coordinate their national programmes and their implementation, and that the measures in these programmes should be directed towards promoting entrepreneurship and adapting education and training systems to market needs. the european social fund should be used more efficiently and the system for granting micro-credit to small and medium-sized enterprises should be improved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i fully support what it has achieved. the european parliament's present report confirms the compromise decision of the eu institutions which will allow the european union to provide the same level of support for the poorest people in the european union as before for the two years remaining until the new multiannual financial perspective. indeed, the council's desire to reduce the amount of food aid at this difficult time, when the number of people in need of aid has increased as a result of the crisis, was particularly difficult to understand. i agree that we need to save today, both at the level of the european union and in the member states, but this cannot be done by reducing aid to the growing number of the poorest. saving money in this place would not solve the financial crisis, but we would turn our backs on our citizens and remember the goals we set ourselves a year ago to lift as many as 20 million people out of poverty. it is a shame that this matter has taken so long to resolve.
in writing. − i voted in favour because, due to the emergency situation created by two years of blocking in the council, the european parliament no longer has real operational freedom to negotiate in depth with a view to amending the council's position. it should also be recalled that the european parliament, in its resolution of 7 july 2011, called on the commission and the council to prepare a transitional solution to be applied for the remaining years of the current multiannual financial framework, in order to avoid a sudden reduction in food aid due to the reduction of funding from eur 500 million to eur 113 million and to ensure that people dependent on food aid do not suffer from food shortages. at the tripartite dialogue of 6 december 2011, the majority of the european parliament's negotiating team acknowledged that, in view of the explanations provided by the representatives of the presidency and the commission that there was no better solution to this extremely difficult situation, it considered itself obliged to accept the council's compromise option as the only means of reaching a transitional solution for the remaining years of the current multiannual financial framework. in the light of these arguments, which were also accepted by the majority of meps at the agri special committee meeting on 12 december 2011, i supported the rapporteur's proposal to adopt the council position without amendments in order to have the current version of the position adopted definitively by the european parliament in plenary (the so-called second preliminary reading).
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the right to food is a fundamental human right and is guaranteed when all people have physical and economic access to adequate, safe and nutritious food at all times. food aid measures are one of the components of an integrated poverty reduction policy. in the light of the current economic, financial and social crisis, assistance to the most vulnerable and deprived members of society at european level is vital and cannot be abruptly reduced or stopped. only through joint efforts, through coordinated and effective measures, will we be able to ensure that food dependents do not suffer from food shortages simply because food aid funding has been drastically reduced.
in writing. − the food aid programme benefits 18 million eu citizens. its importance has increased even more during the crisis. in lithuania alone, more than half a million low-income people are asking for food aid. as energy prices rise, the high cost of heating puts more working families and families with children in poverty. the poor include the unemployed, some elderly, disabled people, and single mothers. the extension of this programme is therefore vital. it is to be welcomed that the european commission and the council have reached agreement on the extension of the programme for 2012-13 and have earmarked eur 500 million for its implementation. this decision by the eu institutions proves that european solidarity is not a principle on paper. i agree with this report, which stresses the importance of appropriate and transparent purchasing and distribution of food originating in the eu. it is necessary to ensure the continuity of the programme and of the activities of non-governmental organisations such as the food banks after this transitional period of several years.
in writing. - according to a eurostat report published last week, 20% of lithuanians live below the poverty line. this is one of the highest rates in europe. for example, in greece the figure is 11.6% and in the czech republic 6.2%. lithuania's poverty risk index is well above the eu average (8.1%). in lithuania, the figure is 46 percent for single-parent families. so it stands to reason that we cannot drastically reduce food distribution when the number of poor people is increasing. i agree with the rapporteur that a compromise with the council on the programme for the distribution of food to the most deprived is necessary, because it is a shame that the proposal was blocked in the council for two years. the compromise may be a temporary measure, but it would resolve the difficult situation of the persons dependent on the programme and allow sufficient time for further negotiations on the implementation of the programme beyond 2014. the report says that 18 million of the eu's poorest people depend on the food programme. we cannot allow bureaucratic procedures to prevent us from helping those who are in dire need of our help.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on radio spectrum policy. i support the second reading of the resolution, which contains important amendments such as the 800 mhz frequency band to be made available for broadband wireless internet in all member states by 1 january 2013, the development of a mobile broadband connection with a minimum speed of 30 mbps for all eu citizens by 2020, etc. i agree with the rapporteur that this political agreement will pave the way for developments that will make the eu a world leader in broadband speed, mobility, coverage and capacity. this agreement will also be crucial for the development of a flexible and coherent european spectrum policy.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i agree that in these difficult economic times we need to improve and develop the telecommunications sector, which is one of the sectors that generates the most jobs, thus contributing significantly to economic growth. it is also one of the sectors most likely to adopt innovative technological solutions and to offer the most new services to people. the objective of this document is to establish a common eu-wide radio spectrum management system. indeed, it is a public resource beyond national borders, and its management at european union level would balance the interests of broadcasters and citizens alike and safeguard europe's cultural diversity. the practical expression of this coordinated control will allow the use of radio frequencies, which have been used for analogue television until now, for high-speed wireless internet. this will reduce the load on the current 3g networks, improve broadband services in remote areas and accelerate the deployment of innovative services across europe.
in writing. − i agree that this political agreement will pave the way for a development that will make the eu a world leader in broadband speed, mobility, coverage and capacity. this agreement will be crucial for the development of a flexible and harmonised european spectrum policy, which will allow the exponential growth of mobile data flows to be controlled in the future by the reallocation of spectrum, so that inefficient use of spectrum will be a thing of the past. by supporting the proposal of the parliament and the commission to make the 800 mhz frequency band available for electronic communications services by 1 january 2013, member states will contribute to the development of a european telecommunications market where new services can create new opportunities and ensure the growth of a market of 500 million users. however, the economic crisis and the difficult financial situation may not allow all member states to meet their targets on time, which may not only place additional financial burdens on them. i also believe that member states should have more freedom of action in pursuing the objectives they set themselves, as the technical and financial capacities of the member states differ.
in writing. − as we have seen on many occasions, legislation often lags behind progress in the relationships it regulates. this is particularly true for digital technologies, for example. the european parliament's view expressed in this document is therefore welcome, that at least in the field of digital and radio data transmission we should not follow technological progress but go beyond it and set the course of action at least a decade ahead.
in writing. − i believe that radio spectrum policy must be based on the principles of effective management and use of limited resources, technological neutrality, functional equivalence, proportionality, transparency and non-discrimination. furthermore, the effective implementation of this policy should ensure the minimum necessary regulation in this area, legal certainty in a changing market and due regard for the criteria of economic development, the guarantee of effective competition, the protection of consumer rights, conditions and the objectivity of procedures. given the importance of spectrum policy not only for the eu but also for each member state individually, and the consequences of the past financial crisis, we must avoid making hasty decisions on the allocation of spectrum. it should be noted that not all countries may be adequately prepared and have sufficient resources to implement the technical conditions for the allocation of radio frequencies in the 800 mhz band by 2013. therefore, in order to protect against anti-competitive behaviour and anti-social measures, only a minimum level of regulation should be ensured at eu level, and the decision on the essential issues should be left to the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european dairy sector is extremely sensitive and economically important to the eu. the milk and milk products sector faced exceptional events between the years 2007-2009 which, combined with the effects of the financial and economic crisis, resulted in farm-gate prices crashing in 2009. europe’s dairy sector will experience a major shift after the expiry of quotas in 2015. the commission identified three key elements: the bargaining power of producers, contractual relations and inter-branch organisations. in its report, the committee on agriculture also highlighted the need for pdos (protected designations of origin) and pgis (protected geographical indications) to be able to manage the volume of their production. i agree with the proposal that, in order to secure a stable future for the sector, the bargaining power of producers needs to be strengthened. however, still further negotiations between the institutions are needed to define the best rates and quotas to maintain competition among farmers, but also to protect consumers and the european market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to increase the bargaining power of farmers in the dairy sector, thereby ensuring fairer milk prices and enabling farmers to meet the milk production quotas set. this regulation was initiated by the european parliament in response to the fall in milk prices in 2008 and 2009 and with a view to stabilising the markets for dairy products. this regulation will allow organisations of dairy farmers to negotiate the conditions for the sale of milk, such as prices, quantities sold, duration of contracts, etc. the commission notes that the milk levy is not a direct or indirect taxation of milk, but a taxation of milk products. this leads to unfair commercial practices, since farmers often do not even know what the price of the milk they deliver will be, since the price is often set much later by the dairies on the basis of value-added criteria that farmers cannot control unless they join cooperatives.
in writing. - i have supported this document because it is clear that there are many differences between the milk production and processing sectors in the member states. in addition, the situation as regards operators and types of operators varies considerably between member states. however, in many cases the concentration of suppliers is low and this leads to a balance of bargaining power between farmers and dairies in the supply chain. this can encourage unfair commercial practices, for example farmers often do not know what the price of their milk will be because the price is often set much later by the dairies on the basis of value-added criteria which farmers cannot control unless they join cooperatives. i believe that the abolition of quotas could help to raise awareness and the responsibility of operators in the milk chain to take account of market signals, to better coordinate prices in the chain, to coordinate supply and demand and to help to avoid unfair commercial practices. in order to ensure a rational development of production and a fair standard of living for dairy farmers, their bargaining power vis-à-vis processing undertakings should be increased in order to ensure a more appropriate distribution of added value in the supply chain. cross-cutting organisations can also be useful for ensuring dialogue between supply chain parties, helping to promote best practice and market transparency. i hope that the european milk sector will be transformed by the end of the quota period in 2015.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to strengthen the position of milk producers in the milk supply chain. producers must be adequately prepared for changes in market conditions following the abolition of the quota system. in view of the difficult market conditions in this sector, the collapse in prices which has forced many european dairy farmers out of business and the existence of other milk producers is at serious risk, producers need to be confident that they will be offered the right price on the market and will be able to continue their activities and that the sector will remain viable and competitive. it should be noted that contractual relationships, negotiating power of producers, inter-branch organisation and transparency are complementary elements that together ensure the efficient functioning of the supply chain. written contracts between milk producers and processing undertakings will ensure transparency, fairness and legal certainty. strengthening the bargaining power of producers will increase the overall productivity, competitiveness and sustainability of the sector. in addition, producers should be encouraged to join producer organisations and measures to promote transparency should be supported on a continuous basis.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the report addresses the problems of price volatility and the imbalance in negotiations between farmers and large dairies. this is very much related to the situation in lithuania. although lithuania is the leading milk producer in the baltic states (about 1.9 million tonnes per year, or 23.4% of total agricultural production), the lithuanian dairy industry is poorly structured. as a result, milk prices are higher than the european average. a recent survey revealed that lithuanian consumers are paying 40 percent more for milk today than they did in 2004. this situation is partly due to the fact that 60% of lithuanian dairy products are exported and at the processing level the current dairy industry consists of only four large companies. the report states that this imbalance can lead to unfair commercial practices. therefore, in order to ensure a fair standard of living for dairy farmers, their bargaining power vis-à-vis processing undertakings should be increased. this would allow for a proper distribution in the supply chain. more stability is needed, especially as the european milk sector faces major changes following the end of quotas in 2015.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution proposing the amendment of rule 48(2) with a view to improving the treatment of own-initiative reports, in particular at the plenary stage, and to examining the question of whether rules 163 and 167 should apply to ini reports. i agree with the rapporteur’s proposal to reduce the necessary quorum for tabling amendments in plenary from one-tenth to 40 members, to extend the application of rule 163 (split voting) and rule 167 (roll-call voting) to ini reports and to amend the last sentence of rule 48(2) to endorse the cop (conference of presidents) recommendation according to which the decision on whether an ini report is ‘strategic’ or not should be carried out by the cop at the authorisation stage. these amendments will make parliament’s work more efficient and dynamic.
in writing. − while acknowledging that own-initiative reports should have a greater strategic relevance, particularly on issues where the ep draws the commission's attention to matters of particular importance, i would like to highlight another aspect. it is often the case that the ep produces reports on its own initiative one after the other on the same issues. unfortunately, even when we express our views on important issues (such as demography or biodiversity conservation), these messages often replicate each other and do not offer anything new, much less a solution to the problem. i would therefore like to draw the attention of the parliament's management to the need to focus more on the relevance and originality of the topics of own-initiative reports rather than on the relevance and originality of the topics of the reports being prepared.
in writing. − it should be noted that the european parliament is the institution representing the citizens of the member states. the elected members of the european parliament act on the basis of the principle of 'free mandate', which is a fundamental law of parliamentary democracy. in this context, the right to make own-initiative reports should not be restricted. furthermore, i do not think it is appropriate to apply the split vote and the roll call vote only to committee proposals for resolutions and their amendments and the roll call vote only once during the final vote on alternative motions for resolutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which expresses the european parliament's provisional position on the commission's green paper and will be followed by a more detailed resolution or report on the subject. the euro area and its member states must ensure the long-term stability of a currency used by more than 330 million people and many businesses and investors, with implications for the whole world. i agree that stability bonds could be an additional instrument to promote compliance with the stability and growth pact. however, important issues such as budgetary discipline and competitiveness, criteria for lending to member states and the ability to meet debt obligations, measurable and implemented debt reduction programmes, etc. still need to be addressed. the envisaged stability bonds have the potential to enhance the stability of the euro area in the medium term, but the commission should make proposals as soon as possible to effectively address the current sovereign debt crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that we need to look more closely at the proposed euro bonds idea, looking for ways to ensure stability in the euro area and to make the euro a strong currency again and contribute to the stability of the international monetary system. the idea of a single bond issue is compelled by the fact that the continuing tensions in the euro area bond markets, reflected in the widening of bid and offer spreads over the past two years, are highly volatile and vulnerable to speculative attacks. however, the european parliament draws the attention of the commission and the member states, reiterating once again that the common bond issue is conditional on the establishment of a sustainable fiscal framework aimed at strengthening economic governance and promoting economic growth in the euro area, and that it is essential to establish the appropriate sequence of actions, including the development of a binding action plan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the possibility of a stability bond could be an additional means of promoting compliance with the stability and growth pact, provided that the issue of non-pecuniary damage and joint liability is addressed. it is one of the possible ways to help resolve the situation today. i agree that the commission should come forward as soon as possible with proposals that would resolutely address the current sovereign debt crisis. the euro area and its member states must ensure the long-term stability of a currency used by more than 330 million people and many businesses and investors, as this affects not only the eu but the whole world. we need to be open to debate, to actively discuss all the issues - both the advantages and the disadvantages - of the possibility of issuing stability bonds, evaluating the various alternative options in order to find the right answer to the current sovereign debt crisis.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it is necessary to create a sustainable fiscal system that will use effective measures to strengthen economic governance and stimulate economic growth in the euro area. in particular, the euro area should have a common liquid and diversified bond market, which would provide an alternative to the us dollar bond market and enhance the role of the euro in the global financial system. the euro will thus become a global safe haven. in addition, the stability bonds will help avoid a recurrence of the debt crisis, stimulate growth in the medium term and increase market efficiency. however, we cannot make hasty decisions in the context of the introduction of stability bonds. better policy coordination is therefore needed to ensure high credit quality and the availability of the stability bonds to all member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the annual growth survey, which sets out what the commission believes have to be the main priorities for the coming year in terms of budgetary, economic, employment and social policies and reforms. i agree that the key message should be that more efforts are needed to put europe back on track and sustain growth and jobs. member states should focus on five priorities: pursuing differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation; restoring normal lending to the economy; promoting growth and competitiveness; tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and modernising public administration. together with other members of this parliament, i express a general concern that fiscal consolidation was set as a general priority and that fiscal consolidation measures are a threat to people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the crisis has had particularly dramatic consequences for the situation of young people trying to seek stable employment but who are now facing an unemployment rate of over 20 %, and of more than 40 % in certain member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in the eu member states, over 10% of people of working age are unemployed, and this trend is increasing as member states adopt austerity measures that are holding back the economic recovery of both the member states and the eu as a whole. the social consequences of the financial and economic crisis are affecting a growing number of eu citizens and increasing poverty among working people across the eu. i support the calls in the report for member states not to undermine the incentives for growth and employment through austerity measures, and to give priority to spending to stimulate economic growth, such as spending on education, lifelong learning, research and innovation, while ensuring that these spending are effective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the assessment of the 2012 annual growth survey and i agree that there is indeed cause for concern that the current set of national indicators is not sufficient to achieve the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on employment, education and poverty reduction. unfortunately, the guidelines for the fight against unemployment do not correspond to the guidelines for increasing employment, improving the quality of jobs and creating the necessary conditions for more active participation in the labour market. many member states do not offer measures to ensure that workers are paid fairly and have decent working conditions. it is also important to emphasise that, where savings measures are applied, they should not interfere with the respect of social security, health and safety standards. the crisis has had a very negative impact on youth employment on average, one in five young people in europe is unemployed. for many countries, this has become a serious labour market problem, often addressed by seeking work abroad. this phenomenon also undermines the investment made by the state in the skills of people, which cannot be realised. young people try to escape by going on to university, but this only delays the solution of the problem and reduces their motivation to work. and the worst is when the most beautiful dreams and plans of life are destroyed by long-term unemployment. there are currently 7.5 million people in the eu who are neither working nor studying. it is a pity that these people are poor, when their work is so needed by an ageing europe that seeks to ensure a well-being for all based on solidarity between generations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the social consequences of the crisis are severe and have been exacerbated in some countries by austerity measures to combat the sovereign debt crisis, by job losses in both the private and public sectors, by cuts in benefits, by a reduction in the provision of public services and by the deepening of poverty and unemployment across the eu. the current labour market situation for young people, regardless of their level of education, is particularly difficult, as they often face precarious employment contracts and unpaid traineeships. the difficult situation of young people is also due to the fact that the skills they acquire do not correspond to the needs of the market. among those who have also been hit hardest by the crisis are early retirees, the long-term unemployed and low-skilled workers. the growing number of people at risk of low income, the growing risk of child poverty, severe material deprivation and social exclusion require measures to ensure sustainable, progressive, sustainable and inclusive growth, investment and tax reform to support sustainable job creation, to improve the quality of jobs and conditions for greater participation in the labour market, to combat youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, and to enhance democratic legitimacy, accountability and responsibility.
in writing. − the economic crisis and the euro area sovereign debt crisis have forced member states to adopt exceptional austerity and budgetary discipline measures. these measures are necessary to manage the crisis, but some of them have other effects, such as increasing social exclusion. even countries that are more successful in controlling the effects of the crisis will remain fiscally constrained, and it is therefore unreasonable to expect an increase in social spending. member states must therefore take well-considered systematic and targeted measures to reduce the negative impact of austerity on the economy and people, and to promote economic growth and job creation. these measures must be based on the eu level, because the failure of one country can mean the loss of all. across the eu, about 23 million people are unemployed, representing about 10% of the working age population. among them are a large number of young people, for example in spain, where 48% of young people are unemployed. the link between business and education systems needs to be strengthened to better match the expectations and opportunities of employers and young people looking for work. more attention needs to be paid to the development of young people's entrepreneurship and their ability to create jobs themselves. with a well-thought-out and targeted approach to limited resources, it is possible not only to stimulate job creation but also to pursue broader objectives such as 'growing the economy' and creating a competitive low-carbon economy.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in particular, capacity for job creation and the promotion of self-employment, including social entrepreneurship and increased labour market participation, must be strengthened. i believe that active labour market policy measures are necessary, with particular attention to incentive initiatives. the eu must be given budgetary freedom and investments in sustainable and good jobs must be encouraged. moreover, increasing the flexibility of employment relationships would facilitate the entry of young people into the labour market. i support the proposal that the council adopt as soon as possible policy guidelines to enable companies that guarantee a fair wage to reduce the burden of non-payment of taxes on employees. the european council must also make continuous efforts to improve the single market and reduce bureaucracy.
in writing. − commissioner, madam president, colleagues, the 2012 annual growth survey presented by the commission does indeed contain a number of good proposals that would help to solve the problems of the current sovereign debt and financial crisis. a considerable effort will be required to regulate the stabilisation of the economies of the eu member states and to restore confidence to investors in the market. it is necessary to take measures as a matter of urgency to create a stable and attractive environment for investors, in particular through the creation of project bonds, which would contribute to the financing of major infrastructure projects and would contribute to the promotion of sustainable growth and employment in the long term. i believe that economic stabilisation will not be achieved without taking into account the medium- and long-term growth and employment objectives. the situation is not satisfactory. unemployment among working age people is increasing and the situation with youth employment is very bad. the 2012 european semester is the first to be implemented on the basis of a legally strengthened economic governance framework (a set of six pieces of legislation), but i believe that in the future it needs to be much more focused on strengthening the social dimension, which in turn would contribute to the sustainable economic recovery and growth of the member states.
in writing. − i voted on this report on participation in the preparation of the 2012 annual growth survey. unfortunately, the annual growth survey does not include the measures needed to restore the confidence of european households and businesses, as well as financial markets, and it does not address the need for urgent action to support short-term activity and employment, which is essential to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. it is recognised that the implementation of the guidelines agreed at european union level has not been sufficiently smooth or uniform across member states, giving the necessary leeway to member states to implement their policies, and that this has prevented the full potential of the agreed guidelines to achieve the europe 2020 strategy objectives from being realised. the european parliament invites the commission to provide a detailed assessment of the implementation of the country-specific recommendations in the member states, which it will publish before the european council in june 2012. in addition, the commission should work more closely with the council to develop a common budget and reporting framework. furthermore, given the importance of the role played by eu-funded programmes in the current economic conditions, the commission is invited to submit a proposal for the financing of europe 2020 actions by transferring unused payment appropriations.
in writing. − i have supported this document because the concrete decisions that all institutions are taking on a daily basis to address the problems of the current sovereign debt and financial crisis should be linked to a particular focus on medium- and long-term growth-enhancing measures and a thorough review of the overall economic framework to ensure greater sustainability, competitiveness and long-term success of the european economy. the annual growth survey does not include measures needed to restore the confidence of european households and businesses as well as financial markets, as it does not address the need for urgent action to support short-term activity and employment, which is essential to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. efforts at national and eu level should focus on five priority areas, namely differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation to ensure economic recovery and job creation; securing long-term financing of the real economy; promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment; tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and modernising eu public administration and services of general interest. in deciding on budgetary expenditure and revenue, member states should give priority to pro-growth policies such as education, research, innovation, infrastructure and energy policies and ensure that expenditure and revenue are planned effectively. it is also necessary to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens and to limit bureaucratic procedures.
in writing. − i believe that the annual growth report does not give sufficient attention to actions to support short-term activity and employment. in addition, member states must make greater efforts to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. thus, at both national and eu level, differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation must continue, restoring normal conditions for the lending economy. each member state should give priority to growth-friendly policies. to increase the eu's competitiveness and to stimulate economic growth, the eu's financial system needs to be made more resilient. it should be noted that in many countries the quality of public services is poor. in this context, it is necessary to modernise public administration by reducing the administrative and bureaucratic burden.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur rightly points out that the crisis has had a particularly strong impact on the situation of young people trying to find a permanent job. it notes that the number of young unemployed in the eu has increased by 1 million over the last two years. the situation in lithuania is very bad. in three years, youth unemployment rose from 13% to 31%. this is significantly higher than the eu average of 21%. for comparison, in 2008, about 142 000 young people were employed, and now only 93 000 are in employment. according to the latest reports, 49,000 young men are now unemployed in lithuania, which is 1/3 of the lithuanian labour force. it shouldn't be like this. the annual growth review rightly gives priority to the employment of young people, but we must not forget the quality of work and traineeships, which are foreseen in the commission's policy guidelines.
mr president, it is evident that the regime of bashar al-assad is committing crimes against humanity which must be stopped immediately, and today we call on the united nations, the human rights council, the un high commissioner for human rights, and the icc, to cooperate and to ensure full accountability for these crimes and to end impunity. the fact that russia and china have exercised their veto in the united nations security council to block the draft resolution on syria is deplorable and has had very serious consequences. it has encouraged the assad regime to use heavy weapons against unarmed civilians. due to the russian and chinese veto, the security council was unable to support the call of the league of arab states for an inclusive syrian-led political process conducted in an environment free from violence, and we deeply regret that. we are watching the death agony of the assad regime, a kind of ‘dead men walking’, so we fully support the diplomatic efforts of baroness ashton, and our prime goal is to save the lives of the syrian people.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, it is a pleasure to speak to you about the outcome of the un human rights council on behalf of the high representative. the un has a unique legitimacy to promote respect for human rights as universal norms. throughout the past year the human rights council has demonstrated its willingness to respond in a united way to the call of millions of citizens for their right to freedom from fear and from want. the eu was instrumental in making the human rights council adopt resolutions on north africa and the middle east, in particular libya, syria and iran, but also in the case of belarus. these are actions that matter. they put the governments of those countries under close international scrutiny and send a clear message. there must be no impunity for gross human rights violations. this response is proof that multilateral institutions matter. it is our duty to consolidate the momentum built up in 2011 in geneva and new york and help the un to live up to its mandate. the high representative, ms ashton, is strongly committed to these efforts. this is why, early in her mandate, she participated last year in the main session of the human rights council together with us secretary of state hilary clinton and delivered a very strong speech on human rights. unfortunately, this year the date of the main session clashes with the foreign affairs council, which she will be chairing and which will be discussing syria and key issues of concern on human rights. the second day overlaps with the general affairs council, in which she has to participate in order to ensure that the views expressed in the fac discussion on serbia and kosovo are fully and accurately reflected in the gac discussion of serbia. the high representative remains strongly committed to the defence and promotion of human rights worldwide. the high representative, ms ashton, welcomes the continued interest of the european parliament on the eu human rights policy in the un and the intention of parliament to send a delegation to geneva to attend the 19th session. i will address the human rights council during its ministerial part, representing the high representative, ms ashton. i will stress the eu’s determination to continue playing an important role in the work of the council. the eu will intervene consistently in the different agenda items of this human rights council session. i would like to highlight some of the eu’s priorities for the session. we have just had a substantial exchange on syria, and you will agree that its dire human rights situation deserves to stay high on the agenda of the human rights council. we believe that the human rights council should maintain a strong, effective capacity to monitor the situation. we will work to secure concrete follow-up to the resolutions on syria adapted by the council in 2011. iran remains a source of serious human rights concerns such as the increasing application of the death penalty and repression against media operators. the eu will fully support the renewal of the mandate of the special rapporteur on human rights in iran. the eu also expects the human rights council to continue to closely follow the human rights situation in other countries of the region, such as yemen and bahrain. we acknowledge the recent positive development in burma/myanmar. serious challenges still remain and must be addressed in order to improve the human rights situation in the country and deepen its transition to democracy. for this reason, the eu will introduce a resolution to extend the mandate of the un special rapporteur on the situation in myanmar. likewise, the eu will work closely with japan in order to secure an extension of the mandate of the special rapporteur of the democratic people’s republic of korea to address the continuing critical human rights situation in the country. the issue of accountability in sri lanka should remain on the agenda of the council. the authorities need to fully implement the recommendations of the report of the un secretary-general’s panel of experts and the lessons learnt, and of the reconciliation commission. ms ashton is deeply concerned by the increasing number of acts of religious intolerance and discrimination across the world. she recently condemned violence against religious minorities in nigeria, egypt and anywhere in the world. the eu will engage at the human rights council for freedom of religion or belief, seeking to renew a strong collective response based on human rights standards. finally, last year the council adopted a landmark resolution on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, introduced by south africa. the eu will work at this session to ensure the success of the follow-up panel on discriminatory laws and practices and acts of violence against individuals based on their sexual orientation and gender identity. the annual session of the human rights council, which brings together key actors on human rights from states to ngos, can be considered the world’s house of human rights. the eu stands ready to engage and cooperate with countries from all regions to ensure the success of this session. we want this council to have a direct impact on the empowerment of people and to hold accountable those who are responsible for grave human rights violations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the delegation from the european parliament’s subcommittee on human rights will travel to geneva for the 19th session of the un human rights council, as has been the case in previous years for the sessions of the council. this year two important processes are under way. firstly, the 13th and 14th sessions of the universal periodic review will be organised in the course of 2012. secondly, there is the ongoing review of the eu’s human rights policy, which should contribute to making the european union a more active, coherent and effective force in the world. having said this, i should stress that the eu and our member states should guarantee respect for human rights in our own policies in order to increase the coherence between internal and external policies and thus enhance the credibility of the european union in the un human rights council. tomorrow we will vote on the resolution on the 19th session of the unhrc. in our resolution we welcome the designation of burma, syria, libya and iran as key issues of the session. we also welcome the many horizontal issues which will be addressed during the session of the council. not for the first time, we regret the fact that the review process has not led to the development of further-reaching membership criteria as regards commitments and performance on human rights issues. we reiterate our call for competitive elections for all regional groups, and we recommend that the european union and its member states state their clear opposition to the practice of regional groups putting forward ‘clean slates’ and lead by example on this matter. on arab spring countries, we take note of the restoration of libya’s membership of the unhrc and encourage the country’s reintegration. at the same time we regret that the opportunity was not seized to draw up strong and transparent criteria for reinstating suspended members. we welcome the statement by un commissioner for human rights navi pillay urging the egyptian authorities to end the excessive and brutal use of force against protestors in cairo and elsewhere in the country. in our resolution we address serious human rights violations in syria, a situation which has been discussed in depth today in this room. a universal periodic review, special procedures and the eu’s involvement are among the topics addressed in our resolution. so tomorrow, by adopting this document on the 19th session, the european parliament will mandate our delegation to voice these and many other concerns which are part of the agenda of the session.
millions of people in europe need books in accessible formats - whether audiobooks, braille books or enlarged versions. unfortunately, books in this format are rarely of interest to publishers, and only about 5 percent of the world's works are published in accessible formats. there are currently no legal provisions providing for an exception to copyright for the international distribution of printed matter in a format suitable for the blind. mr commissioner, do you not think that in order to change this situation, it is necessary to change international copyright laws so that book collections can be shared throughout the european union and beyond without infringing them? i would like to invite the commission and the council to adopt a binding 'books without borders' treaty which would allow the worldwide sharing of books for the blind and visually impaired. the world intellectual property organization is considering the possibility of concluding an international treaty on improving access to books for the blind and other visually impaired, and i ask you, commissioner, to support this treaty. this is also what the blind and partially sighted community in my country, lithuania, is asking for.
in writing. the right of a person to live with family members, as well as the right and duty to care for, educate and live with children, are fundamental rights and obligations not linked to citizenship. these rights must therefore also be respected and guaranteed for third-country nationals coming to live in the european union. i would also like to recall that there are many national and international declarations which take the same position on this issue and recognise the rights and obligations mentioned. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union recognises the right to a family and to family reunification as a fundamental human right. i appreciate that the european commission has started discussions on the revision of the family reunification rules for migrants living in the european union, but the commission should assess very responsibly whether the directive provides for sufficient safeguards on family reunification, whether it is necessary to ensure that discrimination against third-country nationals' families is prevented, as there is still a negative attitude and intolerance towards migrants who have arrived in europe. the commission should also assess all the positive effects of family reunification. the directive states, in particular, that family reunification contributes to social and cultural stability, which creates favourable conditions for integration and allows the promotion of economic and social cohesion, which is beneficial for the local authorities of the host countries. it is also important to recognise that the right to family reunification is a crucial step forward, making a concrete contribution to reducing illegal immigration and dangerous forms of social exclusion.
i think that this is a mistake, because i asked to speak on the situation in russia, but i can say that i am with hungary wholeheartedly as long as they do not violate their international commitments and agreements.
there appears to be no reason to expect any significant changes in the electoral process in russia. transparent ballot boxes and cameras in polling stations do not solve systemic problems. president medvedev himself has acknowledged the need to change the requirements, but only after the presidential elections. this time, the candidates had to collect 2 million signatures nationwide in an extremely short time - four weeks (two of them were christmas). such requirements provide a formal basis for restricting the ability of voters to choose from a wide range of candidates. observer status is granted only to representatives of registered candidates, which limits the possibilities of public observation and control of elections. there are concerns about reports of obstacles to the activities of ngos, in particular the 'golos' association. i should also like to say that i voted today in favour of the amendments relating to the politkovskaya, khodorkovsky and magnitsky cases. unfortunately, parliament did not accept them, and i am very sorry about that, because i think that the cases of these people are a direct reflection of the difficult situation in russia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the creation of a common eu-wide deposit guarantee scheme is particularly relevant and necessary in the context of the ongoing financial crisis. under the rules currently in force in the european union for national deposit guarantee schemes, depositors are to be compensated up to a certain amount in the event of the bankruptcy of a credit institution. it is true that during the financial and economic crisis the level of compensation was increased to eur 100 000 per depositor and the deadline for the payment of compensation was reduced to a maximum of 30 working days. the increased level of protection enhances depositors' confidence and thus helps to prevent a situation where many depositors simultaneously withdraw their money for fear of losing it. these steps towards building depositors' confidence are very welcome, but more can and must be done. it is for this reason that the introduction of an eu-wide mandatory requirement for deposit guarantee schemes to meet common requirements in all eu countries and in all credit institutions is being considered. this would avoid distortions of competition, provide the same protection for depositors in all member states and prevent the transfer of deposits from one credit institution to another with destabilising effects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the establishment of common requirements for deposit guarantee schemes would allow member states to ensure the maximum degree of flexibility in the establishment of deposit guarantee schemes, while ensuring the same level of protection and stability and avoiding distortions of competition. member states may thus adapt their deposit guarantee schemes to the specificities of national financial markets, subject to provisions on the uniform level of compensation and targeted financial resources and to fixed payment deadlines and conditions for the use of funds. this ensures effective protection of depositors and stability of the financial system. the higher level of compensation is not sufficient to ensure a reliable level of protection for depositors. in order to avoid a 'bank run' and to prevent possible destabilisation of financial markets, deposit guarantee schemes also need to be provided with the necessary financial resources. the financial and economic crisis has shown that the separate national deposit guarantee schemes in europe are underfunded and that the burden of the bankruptcy of a credit institution must be borne by the state and ultimately by the taxpayers. in order to ensure the stabilising effect of deposit guarantee schemes in times of financial stress, it is necessary to ensure sufficient ex ante funding of deposit guarantee schemes across the eu. depositors must be better informed than before about the functioning of deposit guarantee schemes and compensation for depositors in the event of bankruptcy must be paid more quickly. the harmonisation of measures would help to strengthen depositors' confidence and the stability of the european financial system and to achieve the internal market.
in writing. − adequate deposit protection in the event of the insolvency of a credit institution is, as recent events in lithuania have shown, a crucial instrument for ensuring citizens' confidence in both the banking system itself and the state controlling the system. however, i would like to draw attention to a few aspects which have received less attention in this report. the key issue, as correctly noted and confirmed in the document, is the proper supervision of commercial banks by national authorities and the timely response to potential danger signals. second, the need to have an accurate list of criteria for financial instruments falling under the deposit guarantee scheme and to ensure that clients are provided with accurate and comprehensive information on the guarantees applied.
in writing. − i support this resolution because a stable and reliable deposit guarantee scheme will ensure adequate protection for depositors. in particular, common requirements for the comprehensive protection of depositors and uniform requirements for the stability of deposit guarantee schemes will prevent distortions of competition and help to protect cash deposits. moreover, the flexibility of the preventive and support measures will help to avoid the emergence of solvency difficulties of the credit institution and, if they do arise, will allow them to be resolved as quickly as possible. i think it is appropriate to provide a five-working-day grace period for the payment of non-refundable deposits which is favourable to depositors. this will protect depositors from long-term financial difficulties and at the same time preserve their confidence. in addition, the conditions for the rapid return of deposits to depositors will be improved. it is also necessary to strengthen the provisions on information and to allow depositors to transfer a non-guaranteed deposit to another credit institution without penalty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a call by the european parliament for a freeze on the administrative budgets of the eu institutions in the light of the continuing difficult economic circumstances. parliament also recalls that the preparations for croatia's accession will have to be made in 2013 and will have budgetary implications, in particular as regards resources for new members and staffing of the various institutions. however, the european parliament recalls that all institutions must show responsibility and solidarity for the budget and savings in view of the high public debt burden and the need to save now that the member states are continuing to consolidate their national budgets. parliament therefore calls for greater interinstitutional cooperation to share best practice and to seek ways of saving by modernising its human resources, organisational, technology and building policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the european parliament and all the institutions should show budgetary and savings responsibility in the face of the high public debt burden and the need for austerity now that efforts to consolidate national budgets are continuing. the institutions need to strengthen interinstitutional cooperation to share best practice, seeking ways to save and thus modernise their human resources, organisational, technology and building policies. it is good to note that the structural changes and restructuring of the european parliament have resulted in considerable savings for the 2012 budget. structural and organisational reforms should therefore be pursued and innovations extended to other areas. the secretary-general should submit a comprehensive report to the budget committee, giving a detailed overview of the budget lines under-implemented in 2011 and an objective analysis of the reasons for this under-implementation. at the same time, however, the savings should not jeopardise the ep's legislative work. i believe that all institutions must continue to look for ways to save in order to preserve the budgetary order and to freeze their budgets in the light of legal obligations and new financial challenges.
in writing. − as the european union emerges from the crisis and as wages in the private sector fall, the public sector should not be an exception. i support this resolution because i am convinced that the eu institutions can also contribute in a spirit of solidarity to the common policy of austerity. our decision not to index benefits is welcome, as is our willingness to give up two jobs. however, i think we should go further and start saving by making a realistic and effective analysis of our costs, which could show the extent to which we are operating efficiently and the scope for further cost reductions.
in writing. − in the current financial situation, the european parliament and all institutions should show responsibility for budgeting and saving. a wise spending policy is therefore essential. i think that the biggest savings would be to have a single seat for parliament and to avoid the monthly travel between brussels and strasbourg. in addition, in order to ensure transparency in the field of buildings policy, a reform of the procedure should be carried out so that the plenary's approval is required for the resolution of these issues.
in writing. − under the implementation plan adopted at the 2002 united nations world summit in johannesburg, the european union has committed itself to maintaining or restoring fish stocks in order to achieve the maximum sustainable yield, with a view to achieving these objectives in respect of depleted stocks without delay and, if possible, by 2015 at the latest. in april 2009, the commission proposed a management plan for the stock, based on the preparatory work of the regional advisory council for pelagic fisheries and the recommendations of the international council for the exploration of the sea and the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries. the objective of this plan is to maintain a sustainable exploitation of the western atlantic common sole, ensuring its biomass, and to provide for the best long-term use of the stock. i voted in favour of this document because long-term management plans for the greatest possible number of stocks are essential to conserve these stocks, as set out in the commission's proposal for a reform of the common fisheries policy. the commission is therefore called upon to take immediate action, as stated and promised on several occasions, to prevent further interinstitutional disruptions in the approval of future long-term management plans, and the council is called upon to present its position on the proposed multiannual plan for the western atlantic bluefin tuna stock, in order to allow parliament to start the second reading and to make progress on this issue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is essential to ensure that living water resources are used in a sustainable way to ensure economic, environmental and social conditions. it is worth noting that the multiannual plan for the exploitation and fishing of western atlantic hake is an essential conservation measure to ensure the sustainable and long-term exploitation of the stock and to facilitate the better performance of fisheries operators. it should be noted that the fisheries control rules are intended to ensure the management of the stock based on the precautionary principle. the stocks of plaice in union waters, fished by various fleets, are of the highest economic importance. the multiannual plan must therefore provide effective means of ensuring the stability of the fisheries sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the european parliament's assessment of the reform package of the common fisheries policy presented by the european commission last summer. parliament called for this reform to enshrine the sustainable exploitation and conservation of fish stocks as one of the main ideas of the reform of the common fisheries policy. to achieve this, the european parliament proposes a range of measures, including positive discrimination, i.e. providing for better access to eu support funds for those undertakings that engage in sustainable fishing. such practice is already being successfully used in the common agricultural policy. the european parliament also notes that fisheries is a vital sector of the eu industry, providing citizens with high-quality food and creating economic and social added value. therefore, it is of particular importance that the appropriate level of fish stocks is maintained to ensure the long-term viability of fishing activities in traditional areas and communities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the preservation of healthy fish stocks, healthy marine ecosystems and marine biodiversity is an important common asset that must be preserved. a dynamic, well-managed fisheries sector could bring greater benefits to european society and the economy and thus play an important role in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. the fisheries sector is an important eu industrial sector, providing high quality food for eu citizens and creating economic and social added value in the eu, and the reformed cap must therefore ensure the sustainable use and conservation of fish stocks and maintain adequate levels of fish stocks to ensure the long-term viability of fishing activities in traditional zones and communities. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the commission, when preparing future policy proposals and decisions, must ensure that the cfp contributes to the achievement of common policy objectives. in this crucial reform process, the cfp must be recognised as a source of development for the european growth project and the necessary conditions must be created for its full potential. in developing and implementing this policy, the commission must take account of the specific characteristics of fisheries and coastal regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as there is a strong concern about the way in which democracy and the rule of law are being established, human and social rights are being guaranteed and defended, checks and balances are being implemented, equality and non-discrimination are being ensured in hungary. in the interests of the hungarian citizens and the eu as a whole, the hungarian government is invited to take into account the recommendations, objections and demands of the european commission, the council of europe and the venice commission on the above issues and to amend the relevant legislation accordingly, in line with the fundamental values and norms of the eu. i believe that it is necessary to ensure the full independence of the judiciary, that the regulation of the national bank of hungary must be strictly in line with european legislation, that the independence of data protection and freedom of information institutions must be pursued, that the right of the constitutional court to review any legislation must be fully restored, that freedom of the media and pluralism must be consolidated, that the electoral law must comply with european democratic norms and the principles of political change, that the right to express political opposition in a democratic manner within and outside the institutions must be guaranteed, and that the law on religious communities and confessions must take into account the fundamental principles of freedom of conscience.
in writing. − the adoption by the hungarian parliament of a new constitution and a series of new laws raised doubts about their compatibility with eu law, values and fundamental principles freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. on 17 january 2012, the european commission opened an infringement procedure against hungary for restricting the independence of the national central bank, the courts, the personal data protection agency. citizens of each country acceding to the union must have the same rights and opportunities to defend them as other eu citizens. i therefore support the resolution, which calls in particular for the determination of whether the actions of the hungarian government are contrary to eu law, respectful of democratic principles the separation of powers, pluralism of political parties, and restrictive of the freedom of speech and religion, the right to a fair trial and other rights of hungarian citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the situation in russia. by adopting this resolution parliament clearly shows its position regarding free and fair presidential elections in russia. in a number of mass demonstrations since the duma elections of 4 december 2011, the russian people have expressed their desire for more democracy, including free and fair elections and a comprehensive reform of the electoral system. we, members of the european parliament, call on the russian authorities to uphold fully freedom of assembly and freedom of speech in compliance with the constitution of the russian federation, and to introduce a package of legislative proposals aimed at developing a truly democratic political system. moreover, mikhail khodorkovsky’s continuing incarceration raises serious questions about russia’s commitment to the rule of law, judicial independence and human rights. observers attending his second trial condemned it as failing to meet acceptable standards of due process and independence. the eu must insist on russia meeting its obligations under international law with regard to civil, political and human rights. the kremlin should also act on the recommendations of the presidential commission on human rights, which has been highly critical of the conduct of the khodorkovsky trial.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document, as closer cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia are crucial to ensuring the stability, security and prosperity of europe. the development of the strategic partnership between the eu and the russian federation can only be based on shared values. europe remains concerned about developments in the russian federation with regard to respect for and protection of human rights and respect for universally recognised democratic principles, electoral rules and procedures. as a full member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, the russian federation is committed to the principles of democracy and respect for human rights. i believe that it is necessary to pursue the development of a genuinely democratic political system, including reforms to provide for easier registration rules for both political parties and presidential candidates, and to address the problem of too strict registration rules in order to facilitate genuinely free and fair elections as soon as possible. it also requires a commitment to tackle the problems of freedom of the media, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, and to develop the principles of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − the eu’s relations with the russian federation are very important for both sides. this country has shown some positive developments, as its recent accession to the wto shows. however, i supported this resolution which raises concerns about the human rights situation in russia. the osce did not consider the latest parliamentary elections in russia free and fair. the post-duma election events – huge demonstrations – testify that civil society in russia is growing stronger. however, there is serious alarm regarding the future presidential elections on 4 march. the russian people have expressed their will for more democracy and a comprehensive reform of the electoral system. the eu should support them and contribute to the establishment of favourable conditions for the exercising of democracy in russia. brussels should do its best to ensure social and democratic consolidation, respect for human rights and the exercising of citizens’ freedoms in russia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that trade and investment are among the tools used in the eu's neighbourhood policy as drivers of growth, helping to reduce poverty in developing countries, bringing people together, strengthening ties between peoples and contributing to political stability. in view of the political situation in the southern mediterranean countries following the arab spring, i therefore believe that a strong, effective and rapid eu response is needed to maintain a stable situation in this neighbouring eu country with which the union has close trade links. it is worth noting that trade in agricultural and fishery products accounts for about 18% of morocco's exports, and that the number of people employed in the agricultural sector in rural areas amounts to as much as 75% of the total workforce, demonstrating that the stability and development of this sector are of paramount importance for the political stability of the country. further liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fishery products between the eu and morocco is therefore necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document, as the opening up of markets and the gradual integration into the eu internal market can be powerful tools to promote the development of the southern mediterranean countries and help to reduce the widespread poverty and unemployment that are at the root of the region's economic, migration and security problems. this agreement is a constructive step towards promoting political stability and mutual sustainable economic development. however, concerns expressed in certain eu sectors about increased duty-free quotas for sensitive fruit and vegetable imports should be highlighted, and the commission should present an assessment of the impact on european producers, and in particular on farmers' incomes, and keep the european parliament informed.
in writing. − the agricultural and fisheries sectors are highly sensitive and important to the eu as a whole. it should be noted that the increased duty-free quotas threaten sensitive eu fruit and vegetable imports. in this context, the commission must carry out an assessment of the impact on incomes and establish compensation mechanisms for producers and farmers. in order to protect the interests of european economic operators, it is necessary to prevent fraud in the entry price system and to ensure its transparent functioning. in view of these circumstances, i consider it appropriate to continue to regulate the increased tariff quotas under the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco on reciprocal liberalisation measures applicable to agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products.
in writing. − abstained, as the increase in reduced tariff quotas for a large number of fruit (oranges, mandarins, melons, strawberries) and vegetables (tomatoes, eggplants, cucumbers, garlic, cucumbers) would put european producers in a difficult competitive situation and would not support balanced agricultural development in morocco. many producer organisations are very concerned about the circumvention of the entry price system in this sector, especially for fresh tomatoes. this disruption allows operators to pay a lower import duty on fruit and vegetables by taking advantage of the current customs value provisions. the federation of spanish fruit and vegetable producers and exporters (fepex) even approached the ep's committee on petitions on the matter. the effectiveness of tariff protection and the control of the value of imports should be ensured before the new phase of market opening, when additional quotas are introduced. the environmental outlook is also negative and casts doubt on the eu's principle of environmental protection and the expected mitigation of climate change. the european commission has not always assessed the social, economic and environmental impact of this agreement, but has focused on tariff issues. a thorough investigation is necessary to enable parliament to take a decision in full knowledge of the matter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this very important resolution on the situation in syria. we, members of the european parliament, deplore in the strongest terms the fact that russia and china have exercised their veto in the un security council to block the draft resolution on syria, thus voting against the peaceful transition proposal by the arab league, which was perceived by the assad regime as a licence to intensify the means of repression on the ground, using heavy weapons and indiscriminate force against unarmed civilians. it is regrettable that once again the eu has missed the opportunity for a more coordinated and effective response by the member states. moreover, eu action has not been able to stop the violence or overcome the veto of russia and china in the un. i support the idea that eu governments should increase their pressure on russia and china and regret the fact that this was not possible during the eu-china summit. we cannot remain calm observers in face of a massacre on this scale, tantamount to a crime against humanity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as it calls once again on the regime of bashar al-assad to immediately cease the violence against the syrian population, withdraw troops and tanks from the cities and release all detained protesters, political prisoners, human rights defenders, bloggers and journalists, and allow unhindered access to the country for international humanitarian and human rights organisations and international media. an independent and transparent investigation into the widespread, systematic and serious violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms committed by the syrian authorities and military and security forces is urgently needed to ensure that all those responsible for these acts, which may amount to crimes against humanity, are held accountable by the international community. the country must make a peaceful and effective transition to democracy, which is in line with the legitimate expectations of the syrian people and is based on an open dialogue involving all democratic forces and sections of syrian society, with a view to launching a process of deep democratic reforms, taking into account the need to achieve national reconciliation.
in writing. − in exerting their veto right in the un security council, russia and china chose to share responsibility with the al-assad regime for the increasing death toll of civilians and children, for the crimes against humanity and the continuation of violence. (russia and china voted also against un human rights council resolution establishing the mandate of a special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in syria and calling for human rights violations to stop and to be investigated). i do not believe this position gives credits in internal politics; the citizens of russia must be wondering whether tolerance to the deeds of the al-assad regime means such measures against opposition are also an option internally. the eu must utilise its dialogues with both china and russia to persuade them to stand on the side of universal values. (especially since the eu-russia strategic and extensive partnership is declared to be built upon common values). the eu high representative should bring a clear mandate and a united eu position to the meeting of friends of syria. time is scarce, as every day takes the country closer to the vicious circle of violence, revenge, militarisation and humanitarian disaster, threatening the whole region and beyond.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on parliament’s position on the 19th session of the un human rights council. the unhrc is a specific forum dealing with human rights within the un system and is entrusted with the important task of strengthening the promotion, protection and respect of human rights around the globe. we, members of the european parliament, welcome the designation of burma/myanmar, the democratic people’s republic of korea (dprk), syria, libya and iran as key issues, as those issues are also priorities of the eu. we also reiterate once more the call to eu member states to actively oppose any attempt to undermine the concept of universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights. we also condemn in the strongest terms the widespread brutal repression and systematic violations of human rights by the syrian regime against its population, including children, and call on the syrian authorities to bring an immediate end to violence and to comply with their obligations under international human rights law in order to allow a peaceful and democratic transition. in this regard, the decision to establish the mandate of special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in syria is highly welcomed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the european parliament's position on the forthcoming session of the united nations human rights council and the issues that it is intended to discuss. the european parliament agreed that priority discussions were to be held on the situation in burma, north korea, syria, libya and iran. parliament also welcomed the fact that public debates were planned on the integration of human rights, freedom of expression on the internet, freedom of religion or belief and conscience, discrimination and violence on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, the declaration on human rights and hiv/aids, the declaration on the rights of minorities, and that extensive meetings were planned on the rights of the child, torture, human rights and the fight against terrorism, disappearances and arbitrary detention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because respect for the universality of human rights, their promotion and protection, is part of the eu's ethical and legal acquis and one of the pillars of european unity and integrity. the ongoing review of the eu's human rights policy should contribute to making the eu's external policy a more active, coherent and effective force in the world. the eu and its member states should ensure respect for human rights in their own policies in order to enhance the coherence of internal and external policies and thus enhance the eu's credibility in the unhrc. all international actors must work to eliminate double standards and to prevent selectivity and politicisation in the treatment of human rights issues. the unhrc is a unique body with a special focus on universal human rights and a special forum within the un system for addressing human rights issues. it has the important task of strengthening the promotion, protection and respect of human rights worldwide.
in writing. − i believe that the 19th session of the unsc should pay particular attention to human rights violations in the arab spring countries and to discrimination of all kinds. the session should also include a wide-ranging discussion of the systematic and ongoing violence against christians in egypt and indonesia. it is important to note that in order to maintain a strong eu role in international forums dealing with human rights issues, it is essential that member states ensure respect for human rights in their domestic and foreign policies. this would avoid double standards and would also increase the coherence of internal and external policies and strengthen moral authority in the international arena.
in writing. − with the next un human rights council meeting approaching, it is clear that the eu must ensure respect for human rights in its policies in order to strengthen and make the eu's position credible in the un human rights council. europe's reputation has been badly damaged and will soon be irreparable. this is felt not only within europe but also among the other members of the un human rights council. the annual report of human rights watch, published last month, recalled the need for the eu and its member states to end the era of double standards. the report details how eu governments, including lithuania, have demonstrated a reluctance to tackle human rights violations in their countries. let me quote: 'the sad truth is that eu governments too often push rights at home aside when they seem to be unwelcome, especially for vulnerable minorities, and reject criticism of abuse.' this is the case for lithuania, which was described as a 'flawed democracy' in the 'democracy index' published in january. i hope that the next session of the un human rights council will be a fair and objective assessment of the human rights situation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the world and european organisations representing the blind have put forward a proposal for an internationally binding treaty providing for a targeted copyright exception. the european commission and the council, meanwhile, propose that the european union conclude stakeholder agreements and draw up a non-binding recommendation. the european blind community is not satisfied with this proposal. at present, there is no legal provision for an exception to copyright for the international distribution of printed matter in formats adapted to the disabled. i therefore asked the commission in the course of the debate whether it did not think that, in order to change the situation, it was necessary to amend international copyright laws in such a way as to allow the sharing of book collections throughout the european union and beyond without infringing those laws. i called on the european commission and the council to adopt a binding 'books without borders' treaty, which would allow the worldwide sharing of books in special formats for the blind and visually impaired. we need to be even more decisive in tackling discrimination against people with disabilities and in removing existing barriers to their inclusion. this is also supported by the world intellectual property organisation and the commission and the council should therefore also support this binding treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the access of blind and visually impaired people in the eu to books and other printed material is very limited, as 95% of all published works have never been presented in the appropriate format, such as braille, large print or audio. there is currently no legal framework in the world that could be applied to the targeted exception to copyright rules for the international distribution of printed matter in formats adapted to the disabled. the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is considering the possibility of concluding an international treaty to improve access to books for the blind and other visually impaired. the eu representatives consistently opposed a legally binding text, preferring non-binding recommendations. the european parliament, in its report 'unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative sectors' of 13 april 2011, called for the conclusion of a legally binding ipa. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, in particular articles 21 and 30 thereof, and the european charter of fundamental rights lay down the principles prohibiting discrimination against persons with disabilities. the council and the commission are therefore invited to support the binding wipo copyright treaty on books and printed matter for the blind and visually impaired.
in writing. − currently, only 5% of books and other printed material in the european union are accessible (in braille, large print or audio) to blind and partially sighted people. the rigid requirements for the protection of intellectual property rights have severely restricted access of persons with disabilities to culture, education and active public life. the publication of tailor-made books is largely dependent on the goodwill of the copyright holders. in lithuania alone, there are about 7,000 people with the most severe visual impairment. the european disability strategy 2010-2020 aims to ensure that people with disabilities can participate in all aspects of daily life throughout the eu, and to develop inclusive and quality education policies. it is therefore necessary to remedy this situation and to seek to provide for appropriate relaxations and exemptions to intellectual property rights that not only do not prevent but also encourage the publication of books for the blind, visually impaired and dyslexic. i believe that the eu, which has set itself ambitious targets in its strategy, should not be satisfied with recommendations alone, but should go further and seek to adopt an agreement within the framework of the world intellectual property organisation, binding both within and outside the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution calling on the council and the commission to speak in favour of a binding treaty within the framework of the cotonou agreement.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the blind and other visually impaired must have unrestricted access to books and the problem of the ability of people who cannot read printed text to read books must finally be solved. it is also necessary to lay down legal rules ensuring adequate protection of the copyright of books and printed matter intended for the blind. only through the implementation of these measures will discrimination against persons with disabilities be prevented and the full and non-discriminatory enjoyment of fundamental human rights and freedoms be ensured for all persons with any disability.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i strongly support the view that blind people deserve better protection and better opportunities. there are about 15,000 blind people in lithuania. many of them are often isolated, unable to find employment or even to shop without help. the situation of deaf and hearing people is even more complex. they represent one of the most socially isolated groups in lithuania and europe. there are at least 150 000 deaf and hard of hearing people in the eu. the exact number of such people in lithuania is not known, since in my country this disability is not officially recognized, nor is there any program to provide the best possible assistance to blind and deaf people. there is also no training for professionals who can assess the needs of deaf and hearing people, or for translators who can help them. in lithuania, blind and deaf people do not have the right to receive the assistance they need for work or to receive daily social care provided by a specialist. it is important that deafness and blindness are recognised as a separate form of disability, as services that are adapted to persons with a hearing or visual impairment are not suitable for blind and deaf people. i also believe that blind and deaf children have the right to receive education, either in a primary school or in a special school, depending on their individual needs.
in writing. − i believe that the application of this convention will overcome the lack of social, commercial and economic integration in the mediterranean region. it will also help the eu to develop and strengthen its trade relations with the arab countries. international trade is a key driver of economic growth and long-term job creation. trade and open markets reduce prices and increase consumer choice. the convention will thus facilitate access to the eu internal market for goods produced and accumulated in the mediterranean region. i believe that a dispute settlement mechanism should be included in the convention in order to deal with the verification of proof of origin in an efficient and expeditious manner.
in writing. − i, as a member of european parliament and a member of the committee on international trade, voted in favour of this resolution as the adoption of the convention is a very relevant step in the creation of a possible free trade area in the mediterranean. the convention integrates all the protocols on rules of origin in force between all the partners indicated; therefore in the end there will a single system on rules of origin in the trades in this area. the practical result of the application of the convention will be a strong boost to and the dynamism of trade exchanges in the area as well as stronger political relations. it also has a political importance especially in the view of recent developments in middle east countries.
in writing. - i support the conclusion of a regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin. this will create favourable conditions for trade development and regional and economic integration. i believe that this convention will provide a solid basis for the creation of a free trade area between the euro-mediterranean countries. it will also boost trade between the southern countries, economic growth, poverty reduction and job creation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the european parliament's contribution to the debate currently taking place in the eu institutions on the financing of the european earth observation programme. indeed, there is currently disagreement on the future funding of this european earth observation programme, which raises concerns about the future of this programme. failure to secure adequate funding or to secure long-term and stable funding would result in even higher costs over time, unequal access to relevant information for citizens, the programme being suspended or even suspended and its data being discontinued. this would ultimately mean that the investments made so far have not paid off and that europe would lose its independence in this space infrastructure and halt its technological progress. in its resolution, parliament thus criticised the european commission for failing to act without initiating the necessary legislative action and expressed its disapproval of the system of financing and management of the european earth observation programme proposed by the commission.
in writing. − the european earth observation programme is clearly delivering economic, social and technological benefits. in order to achieve the objectives set for the implementation of this programme, it is necessary to establish the appropriate governance and long-term funding of the gmes programme. otherwise, without the necessary financial support, europe will suffer major losses and lose its independence in the area of space infrastructure. in order to avoid these possible negative consequences and to ensure the proper development of the programme, hasty decisions should be avoided.
on behalf of the s&d group i would like to express my condolences once again to the relatives of those who died and to the hundreds of victims in the minsk metropolitan area. we condemn this appalling act of terrorism. i call on the belarusian authorities to finally hear the unanimous voice of the european parliament and the other institutions, to re-investigate the terrorist act and only then to bring the real perpetrators to justice. we demand the death sentences of dmitry kanavalav and vladislav kavaliov be revoked because even the victims of the crime do not trust the evidence and the fairness of the process. more than half of belarusian citizens oppose the death penalty. this case is further evidence that the judiciary in belarus has become the object of manipulation. if the authorities execute the alleged terrorists, it will increase the suspicion that they are harboring the real criminals. it is high time that minsk heed the calls from brussels to resume a robust eu-belarus dialogue. this would be very important in the run-up to the parliamentary elections.
in writing. gender equality is one of the european union's core values and it is therefore essential that this area is given continuous attention. the report rightly emphasises the need to increase women's economic independence. this is particularly important not only in the fight against poverty but also in ensuring better social protection for women of retirement age, as the amount of pensions depends directly on the length of service and earnings. although the employment rate of women is increasing steadily, it is still below that of men by 13%. a welcome exception here would seem to be lithuania, where the female employment rate was almost 2% higher than the male unemployment rate in 2010 and even 7.8% lower than the male unemployment rate. however, the quality of women's employment should be considered here. however, i would explain these figures by the fact that women are willing to work even for low pay. in fact, 31.4% of european women work part-time, mostly for family reasons, compared with only 8.1% of men. in the light of these two facts, it is clear that it is still too difficult for women to achieve economic independence in europe today. in this context, i believe that measures should be taken to help working parents by ensuring that member states have sufficient quality, accessible and affordable childcare services.
the decisions taken by the european council in early march on greece appear to have paid off. at least, it seems so for now. but as we look to the future, we should perhaps remember the words of the italian prime minister, professor monti, who said it right here: democracy and globalisation can and must coexist. indeed, if we want to preserve europe as a union of sovereign states, we must fundamentally change our attitude to responsibility. the governments of the member states must pursue responsible policies and, if such policies are indeed to become the alpha and omega of each country, no fiscal discipline pacts will be necessary. if the member states follow this principle and manage their finances responsibly, and give due attention to the promotion of the single market, innovation and research, then we can be on the road to preserving the european union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i know that many of the questions have already been answered by our president so, if you will allow me, i will just focus on the issues which have been most frequently mentioned by the honourable members, particularly jobs, growth and where to find investment in order to support policies in both these areas. but first i would like to assure the honourable members of this house that unemployment, and especially youth unemployment, is one of the five key priorities on which we would like the whole european union to focus this year. this was the conclusion of the annual growth survey. this is one of the priorities for the european semester where we, of course, would expect this priority to feature very highly in the national reform programmes of each and every member state because we are fully aware of how painful this is for our citizens and how difficult it is for our economies not to have enough high-quality jobs. what the commission will do further is that already in april we will be putting forward an employment policy package. we are doing our best to help the eu as such and our member states to improve the functioning of the labour market and to create better conditions for the creation of jobs. we would like to focus on the possibilities across the whole economy, but we would also like to be even more concentrated in the areas and sectors where we see a big potential for the new jobs, such as health care, white sector, information, communications technologies and the ict sector as such. we are also going to tackle the problems and the obstacles which still hamper the free movement of labour and labour mobility within the european union. in particular we would like to assist the young people who are witnessing unprecedented pressure on the labour market. we are absolutely convinced that we cannot afford to have 7.5 million young people who are not employed and not in education or in training. we therefore deployed eight action teams from the commission which have already come back from the member states with concrete ideas. we are going to implement them together with the member states and the social partners in these countries. of course we support youth job guarantees. we would like every young european to have a chance to get – within a very short period of time after completing his or her studies – either a job or to have the possibility of continuing their education or, if there is not a particular job available, to work towards requalification or get into retraining so we can use the potential of our young generation in the european union. to do that we are also going to improve the tools which would help young people to seek jobs. we are going to improve and introduce the new scheme, ‘your first eures job’, which should help young people in finding opportunities on the labour market. then of course the question is where to find the investment and where to find the money to be invested in the economy, especially in this time of austerity where budget consolidation is a very clear priority. we would not like to repeat the dramatic events we have gone through in the last two years. with regard to the creation of new jobs and employment, we believe that we still can do much better with the money which is available from eu funds. to date we have eur 22 billion in the european social fund and eur 62 billion in the structural and cohesion funds which have not yet been spent. we want to help the member states to have another look at spending priorities – how they can reprogramme them and use them for the active labour policy so we can create new jobs, for young people in particular, but of course for every european. several ideas have been mentioned as to where we can generate more income and more investments. i think that we have complete agreement on them because the commission is very much in favour of the introduction of a financial transaction tax. it was a proposal which we made and we are working very hard with the member states to convince them because, as you know, we need unanimity on this issue. we are advancing our work on project bonds because our simulations show very promising results. we can actually use eur 230 million from the eu budget and leverage it, together with the eib, to eur 700 million. this would end up, raising the money on the private market, with the sum of eur 3.5 billion. this is money we can spend on infrastructure, on ict and on projects which generate a lot of employment and which improve the overall competitiveness of the european union. you know that we support own resources and we make this point at every single negotiation meeting which takes place with member states. you know – because you are getting the information from your negotiators – that this discussion is difficult but we are truly convinced that, if we want to have a more transparent budget and less drama when we are negotiating multiannual financial frameworks (mff), we need solid own resources for the eu budget. i would say one more thing even. i think that, if we look at investment policy, one of the best investment tools we have in the eu is the eu budget. where in the world would you find a budget where 94% of the budget goes back to the member states with the high value-added proposals supporting the programmes and the policies which are actually increasing competitiveness and cohesion among the member states? this is how we have to look at the eu budget and this is what i am sometimes missing when we are discussing the eu budget and the mff with member states. thank you very much for your support for the single market act and for your willingness to consider the possibility of fast-tracking some of our proposals because we believe that by unlocking the single market potential we can create a lot of new jobs and, indeed, new growth. finally, regarding romania and bulgaria and schengen, you know very well that the commission’s position is very clear. we are convinced that bulgaria and romania have fulfilled all the conditions necessary to join schengen and we believe that both countries should already be members of schengen.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the speakers that we have had a thorough discussion and concrete agreements in the european council on increasing the social dimension in all eu policies, and in particular in the growth of the member states' economies. i believe that fiscal consolidation, greater coordination of member states' economies and stricter financial discipline are the necessary measures to restore proper balance to our economies and put them in the right direction. however, it is clear from the current state of the eu that fiscal discipline and austerity alone will not achieve the economic growth we are seeking. today, europe is facing a massive increase in unemployment among working age people, a particularly bad situation with youth unemployment, and a difficult time for businesses, especially small and medium-sized businesses, all of which are only delaying the economic recovery of individual member states and, in the process, the eu as a whole. the five key priorities for growth and employment adopted by the 2012 edf will require much greater efforts than before. i think it is very important that member states set out concrete and measurable commitments in their national reform programmes and that the commission monitors implementation of these commitments more closely.
first of all, i am very sorry that the danish presidency has dropped its hands... (microphone not working). it is naive to think that the crisis in the european union ended last year and that people are no longer being made redundant because of it. unfortunately, the crisis in the european union is unlikely to end in the next couple of years. real life is different. the economic recovery of the european union may take much longer. the temporary measures improved the mechanism for providing support from the globalisation adjustment fund and enabled a significantly larger number of unemployed eu citizens to receive support and be re-employed. my country lithuania has indeed benefited from the egf. the globalisation adjustment fund is the european union's solidarity fund, a solidarity aid for people who have lost their jobs, and so the natural question arises when assessing the position of blocking member states: does this mean that the principle of solidarity is no longer valid in the european union?
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution concerning the mutual legal assistance agreement with norway and iceland, which will improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states of the eu and iceland and norway by applying certain provisions of the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters between member states of the european union and the 2001 protocol to iceland and norway. cooperation will involve the hearing of witnesses, experts and accused persons by telephone or video conference, controlled deliveries, covert investigations and joint investigation teams and requests for information on banking transactions, bank accounts and their monitoring to combat crime in general and organised crime in particular. i believe this will help to combat trans-border crime and enhance cooperation with the two countries and will serve to make the eu safer and more secure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states aims to promote and modernise judicial, police and customs cooperation and to better combat cross-border crime. the agreement with iceland and norway aims to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and iceland and norway. the agreement with these countries was signed six years ago and, in view of its importance, i support the european parliament's recommendation to conclude the agreement without delay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation as the agreement between the european union, the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway on mutual assistance by the member states of the european union in criminal matters seeks to improve judicial cooperation between the eu member states, norway and iceland by applying almost all the provisions of the convention on mutual legal assistance between the member states of the european union of 2000 and its 2001 protocol. this agreement includes provisions on the questioning of witnesses, experts and accused persons by telephone or videoconference, on controlled transport, on secret investigations and joint investigation teams, and on the request for information on banking transactions, bank accounts and their monitoring, in order to combat organised crime. the european parliament supports this agreement as it extends the rules on mutual legal assistance already in force and in most cases applied in the member states to norway and iceland. this will certainly help in the fight against cross-border crime. it will also improve cooperation with these two countries, which are already part of the schengen area and are currently negotiating their accession to the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it seeks to improve judicial cooperation between the eu member states, norway and iceland by applying almost all the provisions of the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between the member states of the european union and its 2001 protocol. this agreement includes, inter alia, provisions on the questioning of witnesses, experts and accused persons by telephone or videoconference, controlled transport, secret investigations and joint investigation teams, as well as requests for information on banking transactions, bank accounts and their monitoring in order to combat crime in general and organised crime in particular. this agreement extends the rules on mutual legal assistance already in force and in most cases applied in the member states to norway and iceland. this will certainly help to combat crossborder crime and will also improve cooperation with these two countries, which are already part of the schengen area and iceland is currently negotiating eu membership.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which aims to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the eu member states, norway and iceland. as norway and iceland are part of the schengen area, judicial cooperation is a necessary tool to prevent cross-border crime, in particular organised crime. it should be noted that the principle of mutual recognition is a cornerstone of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. cooperation with these two countries will thus be improved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to remove the obstacles to the free movement of persons who currently face difficulties in asserting their rights in the context of a succession with cross-border implications. at present, citizens have difficulties in foreseeing which country and authority (court, notary, administrator, etc.) have competence in handling the succession and this situation obviously creates legal uncertainty because citizens must be able to organise their succession in advance. this regulation will enable citizens to organise their succession in advance by choosing the law applicable to their wills. this regulation introduces a european certificate of succession which will enable the succession to be settled in a shorter period of time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. with the increasing mobility of citizens in the eu, civil and commercial legal relationships involving interests in several member states often raise various questions such as which member state's court has jurisdiction to decide the issue in question, which legal system will apply, what the procedure for recognition and enforcement of judgments is, etc. the treaty establishing the european community provides for the progressive establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, for example by means of judicial cooperation in civil matters. this proposed regulation will aim to address legal issues relating to cross-border succession in order to provide eu citizens with greater legal clarity and simplicity in the exercise of their rights in cross-border succession cases. this regulation also introduces an important innovation, the european certificate of succession, which will enable heirs, administrators of succession or executors of wills to prove their status without any further formalities. this will be a major improvement over the current situation, and will make the process of probate quicker and cheaper.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the creation of a uniform system for dealing with succession matters throughout the european union. i also support the creation of the european certificate of succession, as i believe that this document will avoid a lot of unnecessary administrative procedures for heirs, executors of wills and administrators of assets. this eu legislation will be particularly useful in the future for our citizens, who are increasingly moving abroad to live and work or simply to buy property in foreign countries. however, it is regrettable that, at least for the time being, england and ireland have declared their non-participation to this regulation because of the specific rules in their countries on certain aspects of succession. the accession of these countries to the regulation is of course of great importance, especially for our citizens, and the european parliament has therefore called on the council to continue to seek ways of reaching a compromise with these countries on the question of succession.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on jurisdiction, applicable law, judicial decisions and authentic instruments in matters of succession, recognition and enforcement and on the taking into use of the european certificate of succession, as england and ireland have declared their non-accession to the regulation due to specific regulations in their countries on certain aspects of succession. the accession of these countries to the regulation is very important, especially for our citizens, who often go to work and live in these countries, so it is necessary to look for additional ways to reach a compromise with these countries on the issue of inheritance so that these countries join this regulation. i am only in favour of creating a uniform system across the european union to deal with succession issues. i also support the creation of a european certificate of succession, as i believe that this document will avoid a lot of unnecessary administrative procedures for heirs, executors of wills and administrators of estates, but both england and ireland must participate in this system to ensure a uniform system without exceptions.
in writing. − the initiative to create a european certificate of succession and to introduce a new right of choice that would increase the autonomy of citizens is welcome. however, given the importance of this issue, no hasty decisions can be taken. in order to ensure that the application of this regulation does not lead to any abuse or circumvention of the provisions of the law, detailed discussions should be held. every person must be guaranteed that the choice of the law applicable to him, when he does not have his habitual residence or wishes to settle in a state other than that of origin, will not create an additional burden for him and that questions of succession will be dealt with in an appropriate and effective manner.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the progress on equality between women and men in the european union in 2011. sensitive issues of today’s society are reflected and incorporated in the report: implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, abortion, the gender pay gap, the role of women in decision-making and the use of quotas in company boards or in politics, and maternity leave. these are still under-solved and unequally treated problems in europe and i believe, with improved support and further actions identified, europe will improve the living environment for its citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu is making a major effort to promote greater equality between women and men in all eu policies. i agree that there are still many unresolved issues, in particular the question of the proper assessment of social work, social protection and pensions for people who care for children or elderly people at home. i agree that there is a need to increase investment in accessible high-quality childcare facilities and care facilities for the sick, disabled, elderly or other people in need of care, and to ensure the working age and social protection of those who provide care at home.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report of the european parliament because equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the european union enshrined in the treaty on european union. despite gradual progress in gender equality, many differences between women and men still persist. although a great many campaigns, targets and measures have been set in recent years to achieve equal pay for equal work or work of equal value, the large gender pay gap has not been reduced. across the european union, women earn on average 17.5% less than men, and the gender pay gap has narrowed very little in the last few years. member states must therefore step up their efforts to reduce this gap by implementing the existing eu provisions. the european parliament calls on the commission to present as soon as possible an eu strategy to end violence against women, including legal criminal law measures to combat gender-based violence, as requested by parliament in several of its resolutions. the european parliament also calls on the commission to declare 2015 the european union year of the end of violence against women.
in writing. − the european union plays an important role in ensuring gender equality and combating discrimination. the aim of increasing women's participation in the labour market and providing them with opportunities for high positions, such as on company boards, must remain a priority. however, despite the positive aspects of this document, i abstained in my vote because i believe that the objective of increasing the representation of women in all types of eu enterprises and introducing mandatory measures that the business sector would have to take is inadequate and would potentially restrict the freedom of enterprise. starting with the public sector, sharing good practice with the business world. the business sector must decide what is best for them, not us setting the mandatory measures. the debate on the economic crisis and its consequences is still ongoing, and we are looking for binding measures to tighten the business sector. on the contrary, we should promote economic growth and entrepreneurship.
in writing. − it is important to note that ensuring equal opportunities for men and women is one of the eu's core values. it is therefore essential that both men and women are provided with the appropriate conditions to achieve a work-life balance. the state should create opportunities and rights, but the people have to decide. in order to meet the needs of european families and the european economy, member states should draw up legislative plans for maternity and paternity leave as a matter of urgency. given the ever-increasing number of people in the world, family planning should be one of the priorities on the political agenda. it is also essential to make further progress in reducing maternal mortality rates and to improve access to quality reproductive health services. in addition, member states should pay greater attention to social work, ensuring that it is properly valued and paid for.
in writing. − i supported this report because equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the european union and many women still face discrimination, poverty and stereotypes in their everyday lives. as the rapporteur noted, women hold the position of ceo in the eu member states on average only in 12% of the most important listed companies, and only in 3% of the management positions. in addition, women receive 17% and lithuania 19% less pay for equal work done by men. as mentioned in the debates, where member states have established quotas and other legally binding measures, greater progress is being made and equality between women and men is much more assured. action is therefore needed at both national and european level to increase women's participation in decision-making in the public and private sectors, to improve the labour market position of women and to increase their economic independence, in order to reach the eu target of 75% employment of women and men aged 20-64 by 2020. i also support the fight against violence against women and calls for gender equality outside the eu.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, gender equality is far from being achieved in lithuania or in the eu. the report notes that, although legislation has changed, traditional gender stereotypes remain a serious obstacle to fundamental change. in lithuania, there is a clear gender pay gap. the gender pay gap in lithuania is over 21%, one of the highest in the eu, and has increased by 5% over the last six years. in this context, the gender pay gap could reach 25% within a few years unless appropriate measures are taken. the gender pay gap is more pronounced in the private sector, where women are paid less than men for the same work. a report published by the institute for the study of labour argues that the gender pay gap in the eu is not just a glass ceiling problem, but a floor problem. for example, the gender pay gap is higher between the highest and lowest earners in lithuania. improving the situation requires more transparent wage scales in enterprises and stronger measures against enterprises that do not respect the principle of gender equality. in the face of the crisis, more attention needs to be paid to economic equality. lower wages for women inevitably lead not only to lower incomes but also to lower pension benefits.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the imbalance in participation by women and men in political and public decision-making, political parties and social partners. i support the invitation to the council, the commission and the member states to design effective gender equality policies for achieving parity in participation in political decision-making and leadership at all levels. i believe that member states should introduce in their legislation gender quotas for elections. as an instrument to improve gender balance i support the initiative for the member states to set targets based on parity between sexes for the political parties as a prerequisite for funding. i also support the suggested measures for the european institutions and their political or administrative bodies to follow the same pattern.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because the participation of women and men in political and public decision-making is disproportionate and it is clear that women are under-represented in the process of electing and appointing political offices at the level of the european union and its member states. the persistent under-representation of women is a lack of democracy that undermines the legitimacy of decision-making at eu and national level. the european parliament therefore calls on the council, the european commission and the member states to develop and implement effective gender equality policies and strategies aimed at ensuring equal participation at all levels of policy-making. in addition, the council, the commission and the member states should ensure that the principle of equality is implemented at all levels, and do so in a clear non-discriminatory manner, by providing adequate resources, using specific instruments and promoting the necessary training of civil servants responsible for gender budgeting. the european parliament also calls on the council, the commission and the member states to enable women and men to participate actively in decision-making, and to do so by promoting family and work-life balance through measures such as equal sharing of parental costs for both employers and the provision of accessible and appropriate care services, such as for children and the elderly.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on women's participation in political decision-making because i believe that women should have a greater role in politics. today i see that only a policy of quotas and binding targets, as is the case in france, allows women to participate more widely in political life. i support the proposals to improve the reconciliation of work and private life to facilitate women's access to decision-making positions, and the obligation on political parties to take account of the presence of women. this is an important report which must be given a real hearing in all the member states.
in writing. − i fully support the essence of the resolution, which calls for greater participation of women in key political and business decision-making. but artificially introduced quotas will not solve the problem. i believe that attempting to set quotas for elected political positions goes against the very essence of democratic elections. member states should therefore be free to decide whether the introduction of such quotas is appropriate and beneficial. in lithuania, which i represent, there is still much to be done to improve the inclusion of women and to reduce labour market segregation and wage disparities. however, there are areas where lithuania is ahead of the eu average, such as the number of women on the boards of large business companies. in terms of the highest political positions, women in lithuania lead two of the three branches of state power - we have women: the president and the speaker of the seimas. in government, women lead the finance and defense sectors. a more conscious focus on gender equality is needed in the middle decision-making chain.
in writing. − i believe that gender equality policies should be implemented at eu level to ensure equal participation in policy-making at all levels and the proper implementation of the principle of equality. it is essential that member states take a clear non-discriminatory stance and create favourable conditions for the activities of women's associations and encourage the exchange of mentoring, appropriate training and good practices and programmes. it should be noted that sanctions against political parties or organisations are not an appropriate way to encourage women to participate actively in political life. furthermore, it is neither appropriate nor appropriate for political parties to set and link gender equality-related objectives as a prerequisite for receiving funding.
in writing. − the percentage of women in political decision-making remains unchanged, with only 24% of women in the parliaments of the eu member states and the number of women ministers in some member states' parliaments not exceeding 15% and only 23% in total. i therefore agree with the rapporteurs that in this area there is a need not only for voluntary measures but also for legal instruments. both the eu and individual member states must be determined and committed to action to increase women's participation in political decision-making. i agree that action programmes are needed - sharing of good practice, legislation and sanctions for non-compliance in the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. cooperative societies play an important role in promoting rural development and social, economic and territorial cohesion. there are 160,000 cooperatives in the eu , employing some 5.4 million workers . however, only a small proportion of these cooperatives have chosen the form of the european cooperative company. in 2010, only 17 cooperatives were set up across the eu, with 32 employees. this situation is not acceptable, as cooperatives and other social economy enterprises are an important part of the eu social model and must be recognised and supported at member state and eu level. the statute for a european cooperative company, adopted in 2003, is a major step towards facilitating the development of this type of enterprise in the eu, but its review has shown that it is not fully adapted to the specificities of cooperative companies. i agree with the calls in the report for the current statute to be revised and amended to meet market needs and for an independent and clear legal framework for the european cooperative society to be established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because cooperatives defend the interests of their members and consumers, seek to overcome societal challenges and seek not only to increase the benefits to members and secure their livelihood through long-term and sustainable business policies, but also to place the well-being of customers, employees and members throughout the region at the centre of their business strategy. cooperatives are an important pillar of the european economy and a key driver of social innovation, helping to maintain infrastructure and local services, particularly in rural areas and urban agglomerations. currently, the legislation governing cooperatives and employee participation varies widely across the european union, with the european cooperative company statute being the only social economy legal instrument at eu level. the european parliament underlines the opportunities offered by the european cooperative society for achieving gender equality through the implementation of policies and programmes at different levels, with particular attention to education, vocational training, entrepreneurship promotion and lifelong learning programmes. moreover, a gender balance in decision-making at different levels is economically beneficial and creates a favourable environment for competent and capable people to assume leadership and supervisory responsibilities. calls on the commission to establish a mechanism for the exchange of best practices between member states in the field of gender equality, as certain aspects of cooperative work allow for flexibility which facilitates the reconciliation of family and professional life;
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. european cooperative societies are still not having success, given the rarity of this form by 2010, only 17 european cooperative societies had been established, with a total of 32 employees. these figures show that the statute is not adapted to the characteristics of european cooperative societies, although many entrepreneurs have expressed an interest in the creation of a european cooperative society. the review of the directive should take into account the specific needs of cooperative workers, including the possibility of being both owner and employee of the same undertaking. i believe that the complexity of the statute only partially meets the needs of cooperatives and that it should be simplified and made more understandable and easier to apply for all. this must ensure the right of information, consultation and participation for all employees without deteriorating the quality of the staff regulations. the implementation of the statute should create an independent legal framework for the european cooperative society, which would operate in conjunction with the existing national law on cooperative societies and therefore avoid direct coordination. member states must provide better conditions for cooperatives, such as access to credit, tax incentives, etc. cooperatives are an important pillar of the european economy and a key driver of social innovation, and they make a particular contribution to maintaining infrastructure and local services, particularly in rural areas and urban agglomerations.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i support the importance of cooperative societies for the social economy. the current situation is worrying: 16 member states have not implemented directive 2003/72/ec on the involvement of workers in time. in some member states, no appropriate measures have been taken to prevent the misuse of a european cooperative society, whose statute was established by regulation (ec) no 1435/2003, which eventually leads to the deprivation of workers' rights to involvement or the refusal of these rights. finally, directive 2003/72/ec does not contain any provision on the enforceability of the agreement on the involvement of workers. i also encourage this vote to identify the reasons for the very low rate of use of the union's legislative framework for cooperatives.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it is necessary to remove the obstacles to the effective functioning of european cooperatives. the current statute of the european cooperative society is not an effective instrument, its application is complex and does not meet the needs of these companies. the new independent european cooperative company legal framework is an effective tool to enable legal entities whose activities are not limited to meeting local needs to plan and operate under common rules throughout the eu. i believe that in order to achieve the objectives set, it is also necessary to take account of the specific needs of cooperative workers, to increase their participation in cross-border forms of companies and to give them the opportunity to be both owner and employee of the same company.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which aims for the further improvement of the ambitious process set in motion by the bologna process – a student enrolled in a european university has the right to graduate and to see his qualification recognised throughout the eu. however, aspects such as mobility, recognition of qualifications and the qualification framework, quality assurance, the social dimension, employability, a bachelor degree and better cooperation between the european higher education area and the european research area should be scrutinised and improvement measures applied. i also agree that increase of funding both for public and private universities is essential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the bologna declaration was signed in 1999 to strengthen the competitiveness and attractiveness of eu higher education and to promote student mobility and employability by ensuring comparability of study programmes and degrees. over the years, the bologna process has been extended to include lifelong learning, non-formal education, teacher qualifications and many other important issues. despite some progress, member states are still lagging behind in resolving the issue of mutual recognition and trust of qualifications, which will prevent the creation of a european higher education market. i agree that the commission must play a more active role in this process and draw up a clear action plan setting a final deadline for mutual recognition of qualifications and diplomas and ensuring that member states respect the deadlines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because the bologna process is necessary to remove the obstacles to studying or working abroad and to make european higher education attractive to as many people as possible. the bologna process and the european higher education area play an important role in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, as it sets out the priorities for mobility, recognition and employability, the necessary conditions to ensure that all students enrolled in european universities have the right to a quality education, to graduate and to have their qualifications recognised in all eu member states. the task of higher education is to create, without any discrimination, a learning environment for all that encourages autonomy, creativity, access to quality education and knowledge-building, and it is therefore important to ensure that the entire academic community, in particular students, teachers and researchers, is involved in the design of university courses. at the level of the european union, there should be greater support for the bologna process, in particular as regards the mutual recognition of academic qualifications, the harmonisation of academic standards, the promotion of mobility and the promotion of employment opportunities, active democratic participation, as well as the assessment of progress in implementing the principles of the bologna process and the removal of administrative obstacles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the main objective of the bologna process remains the essential condition that a student studying at a european university has the right to complete his studies and the right to recognition of his qualifications throughout the eu. most of the countries involved in the bologna process have not implemented national qualifications frameworks linked to the european higher education area qualifications framework. the objective of ensuring social cohesion has become a key aspect of the european higher education area. this is a necessary condition for the consolidation of the european higher education area. more attention should be paid to equal opportunities for access to and completion of higher education at all levels. one of the main objectives of the european higher education area should be to create and develop a european degree system which recognises degrees in all european countries, so that all students graduating from european universities obtain qualifications that are recognised and valid throughout europe.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the bologna process is an important political factor and a catalyst for change in the higher education systems of the countries. in particular, it offers excellent opportunities to promote the harmonisation of academic standards, the mutual recognition of academic qualifications, mobility, quality assurance in higher education, and better cooperation in the european higher education area and the european research area. i believe that member states should pay particular attention to employment opportunities, which should be reflected in the exchange of students and teachers and in the effective dialogue between universities and business. universities should also develop partnerships for the exchange of good practice. in the meantime, regional university brands need to be developed to enhance the prestige of universities at international level.
in writing. − the creation of a european higher education area (ehea) must be supported at the european level because the challenges ehea faces cannot be solved by the individual member states. bologna process is not only about recognition of diplomas across europe. it is a very comprehensive tool to tackle such important issues as youth unemployment, which is about 20% nowadays. european youth need the means to become more mobile. 53% of young people in eu are worried about the absence of jobs in their city or region. 42% refer to the lack of good job opportunities and the same number considers that jobs are poorly paid and that salaries are not adequate for a reasonable standard of living. i urge the member states and the eu to provide more support for students willing to study abroad. two major problems have to be tackled: lack of funds and lack of information on studying and scholarship opportunities. 65% of young people finance their stay abroad with their private funds and savings. currently more than 4 in 10 (44%) of young people are not willing, or would not like, to work in another european country. support for studies will significantly promote european citizenship, cultural diversity and foster intercultural dialogue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which aims at improvement of the quality and reliability of statistical data in the eu. the availability of correct statistics would have made it possible to trigger correction mechanisms at an early stage. i support the european commission’s intention to give eurostat greater investigative powers. i also support the greater co-ordinating role of the european commission in providing assistance and expertise to the member states to help them tackle research constraints and major methodological obstacles. both internal and external audit mechanisms should be strengthened.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. reliable, accurate and high-quality statistical data are necessary to provide a fair and objective assessment of the current economic, social, financial and other situations in the member states and to ensure that economic and budgetary policies are effectively formulated at member state and eu level on the basis of these data. at present, all member states are subject to some 350 statistical regulations, there is no standardisation of public sector accounting systems and no general mandatory rules on the compilation and accuracy of statistical data. this raises the risk that member states' data may be inaccurate and may not reflect the real situation in the member states, which may impede the effective implementation of the economic governance package and reduce the ability of member states to revitalise their economies and promote growth and employment. i agree with the need to move towards a common european quality management of statistical data, especially financial data, to establish uniform and mandatory principles for the production of statistical data and to introduce standardised public sector accounting systems in all member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report by the european parliament because reliable and accurate statistics are essential for the effective formulation of economic and budgetary policies in the member states at the level of the european union. the users of european statistics should be provided with timely and accurate data collected and compiled by the national agencies, in accordance with the principles of impartiality, objectivity and professional independence. the european parliament therefore supports the commission's intention to propose an amendment to the statistical data regulation to allow for the monitoring and evaluation of public finance data at an early stage, in order to allow for corrective action to be taken as soon as possible, and supports the proposal to establish a legal framework to strengthen the governance framework, in particular as regards the professional independence of the national statistical authorities and eurostat. in addition, member states should be required to formally commit themselves to taking all necessary measures to maintain confidence in statistical data and to facilitate a stronger commitment to the principles of the implementation of the european statistical code of practice. eurostat should explore ways of making its printed publications, especially those available online, more accessible to the general public and non-professionals, in particular with regard to the use of charts. the eurostat website should facilitate access to comprehensive long-term disaggregated data and provide intuitive and comparative charts in order to provide citizens with additional benefits.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report because reliable and accurate statistics are essential for effective economic and budgetary policy-making in the member states at eu level. the emerging sovereign debt crisis in the euro area has exposed the risks of statistical inaccuracy and statistical falsification, which arise both from the quality of the original public sector accounting data and from the shortcomings of the current statistical governance arrangements. i also agree with the view that a partial amendment of the statistical data regulation is necessary to establish a proactive approach to the monitoring and evaluation of public finance data at an early stage, to allow for corrective action as soon as possible, and with the proposal to establish a legal framework to strengthen the governance system, in particular as regards the professional independence of the national statistical authorities and eurostat, and to require member states to formally commit themselves to taking all necessary measures to maintain confidence in statistical data.
in writing. − as recent practice has shown, the lack of transparency in the provision of statistical data, and the disparate approach to their quality in different eu member states, have been one of the reasons for the discrepancies between the declared and the actual economic and financial situation of some countries to be observed so late. i therefore support the provision that common high quality management standards for statistical data should be applied to ensure the independence and transparency of the authorities and officials collecting and processing statistical information. but it is essential that these criteria are applied both within the eu institutions and in all eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the management of the quality of statistical data is crucial for effective economic and budgetary policy-making. moreover, these data are an effective tool to monitor and evaluate public finance data at an early stage. to that end, statistical data should be publicly available and easily understandable to policy-makers and citizens. in order to achieve the objectives set, i believe it is appropriate to give eurostat greater powers of investigation and to strengthen the link between this institution and the audit authorities. it is important to note that each member state is responsible for the accuracy and reliability of the statistical data. in this context, it is necessary to use standardised public sector accounting systems and to continuously improve their functioning. in addition, each member state must undertake to take all necessary measures to maintain confidence in its statistics.
in writing. − the report rightly points out that reliable statistical data are essential for effective policy-making at member state and union level. i believe that statistics should be accessible to the public and understandable to both policy-makers and citizens. they must also be honest and impartial. the biggest problem in lithuania today is the gap between what official statistics say about economic activity and how people perceive their living conditions. often, this difference is not due to the poor quality of official statistics but to their misuse. this may lead to biased analysis, misguided policy objectives and may undermine both the credibility of political action and the genuine functioning of lithuanian democracy. for example, while lithuania's leaders and their statistics suggest that the economic situation is recovering and improving, the reality is different. the latest erdf report revealed that over the past year, life satisfaction in lithuania has decreased by 10%. the report also states that young lithuanians' belief in a better future has declined by 20 percent. we need to rebuild trust, and we can only do this if policy action - backed by unbiased statistics - has a tangible impact on people's lives.
vice-president of the commission. − concerning the proposed bond, which could be very important for transport infrastructure, yes, i think it can work. there are two main opposing views. one of the opposing views now being discussed in member states is a fear that this proposed bond is somehow a hidden eurobond or a bond which could increase the debt burden uncontrollably, which is not the case. it is something completely different. it is an instrument which is linked to concrete projects and is intended to involve private money. the second fear is that some member states are simply opposed to it, and you simply have a very complicated explanation. you listen, you think and you do not understand. these are the main criticisms being voiced in this discussion, but things look promising. after discussions on the proposed bond – when and if they are completed – we will launch a pilot project. we think that we can involve more private money in these investments which will definitely facilitate growth.
member of the commission. - mr cancian, in continuation of what siim kallas has just said, if we want to act for growth and not just talk about it, i am convinced that the basic platform of this growth economy we want to recover is clearly this large market of 500 million consumers and 22 million businesses, which must have more ease of communication, fewer obstacles or divisions at the administrative, fiscal or regulatory level. that is what we are working towards with the single market act and that is why, mr cancian, we have identified, among the 12 levers of growth, communications, the infrastructure we need for energy, transport and digital. that is also why the time will come - i hope soon enough - when governments will be ready to accept these project bonds, since the objective is clearly to invest massively, together, in communication infrastructure. you also asked me, perhaps thinking of my responsibility, about other infrastructures which are those of financial companies. financial infrastructure is one of the conditions for growth. everything we have been doing with you for the last two years to bring back rules, transparency, accountability - and i would also add morality, where it had disappeared - to bring financial services back into the service of the real economy and to make financial infrastructures work on sound and solid foundations, is also one of the preconditions for regaining trust. that is precisely what we are doing. i would remind the european parliament that at the moment i am speaking to you we have practically all the necessary texts on your table to put in place the regulation requested by the g20. we must now take the democratic time to vote on these texts with the council. i hope that within a few months we will have clearly built this foundation of sound and strong financial infrastructure to put these financial markets back in the service of the real economy, rather than in their own service.
member of the commission. - mrs vicky ford, we naturally have many opportunities to discuss the whole regulatory agenda which i have just mentioned in reply to mr cancian, either in your committee or in plenary. of course, in this agenda - which i did not invent, it is the g20 agenda - there are decisions taken before i joined the european commission, on basel for banks, on solvency for insurance, on the revision of the directive on pension funds. i am responsible, it is my job, with you and with the council of ministers, to put this agenda into place as intelligently and as quickly as possible, without improvisation. this is true of the measures you are talking about and of all the measures which concern the 8 300 european banks. i am therefore prepared to continue the dialogue with you and with the rapporteurs you have mentioned. my texts are on the table. i tried to build them as accurately as possible in every area. i am, however, concerned, mrs vicky ford, about the cumulative effect of all these texts, particularly when it comes to the three main instruments of investment: banks, which finance 75% of the economy of the european regions, pension funds and insurance companies. i am therefore looking very closely - we will publish in a few weeks' time a comprehensive study of the cumulative impact of all these measures - and i am very concerned about preserving the investment capacity, particularly in the long term, of these three sectors - insurance, pension funds and banks. but on the point you have raised, i am naturally prepared to continue the dialogue with the rapporteurs concerned.
member of the commission. - we are, when we build one of the texts - there are about thirty - a legislative pipeline with you. a good dozen have already been approved, including this week, thanks to you, the regulation of short selling and, in a few days, this major sector of derivatives. on insurance, we are working on solvency technical implementation measures. we're also working on the pension funds. i take a long time, mrs. ford, to listen to everyone. the other day, i gave a big conference on pension funds, and several hundred people attended. let's take the time to study, to listen, to look at the impact studies. we shall then publish, in a few weeks, this cumulative study of all these laws. there's always more we can do. but i just want to say that we are extremely attentive and i have told you myself my concern about the impact of all these measures on growth. nevertheless, i think overall that if we work well together, we will build a sound and solid foundation for european financial services and that will be a competitive advantage. what has broken growth, for the last four years, is the lack of regulation, the lack of transparency, the lack of accountability in many companies in the financial sector. we are in the process of restoring these rules and i can assure you that i am very attentive to the impact of these measures on growth.
i would like to ask a question to commissioner andor. indeed, the free movement of workers is not only an attractive freedom for the european union but also a factor in increasing europe's economic competitiveness. countries that attract skilled workers gain competitive advantages. at the same time, however, countries which leave a large number of skilled workers lose competitiveness. in addition, there are additional pressures on the sustainability of pension and social security systems. my question is: what measures should the european union take, what are the proposals of the european commission, to balance the benefits that free movement of workers can bring to the competitiveness of all the member states? does the european commission envisage any action to compensate for the losses suffered by the countries of high emigration? i have asked the commissioner about this before and perhaps some time has passed and there is some progress. so i would like to know the answers to these questions.
member of the commission. − i agree with the implication of your question: that we need not only to promote free movement in europe, but also to balance the benefits of free movement in the european union. our action to promote free movement takes the form of ensuring that the barriers come down. these barriers are of various kinds; while there are still administrative barriers, and issues related to the single market such as the recognition of diplomas, there are also natural barriers linked, for example, to the existence of many different languages, including the 23 official languages. this is also significant, especially if we compare ourselves to the united states. however, difficulties also arise in connection with the great imbalances – and uneven wage levels – between various countries, which drive movements of workers from one country to another. this occurs, especially, where regions – or sometimes even countries – are in recession, with high unemployment rates, and people move to countries where there are jobs available. i think it is important to ensure that there is freedom of movement and that people who arrive in a country are welcome if they come to work. however, we are also working to achieve a more circular form of free movement whereby, after a certain period in the course of which they gain experience and income, people also return to their home country. we also want to ensure that such movement becomes more demand-driven, and that people do not just leave their homeland but have a greater awareness of the concrete vacancies that exist. that is why we developed the vacancy monitor as part of the agenda for new skills and jobs. that is also why the forthcoming new initiative on the eures programme will help develop eures – which is a great network for advising people who seek work in another member state – to be more robust and more demand-driven. finally, in order to fully counterbalance the trend of population and labour movements inside europe, we obviously have to take cohesion policy very seriously and ensure that more peripheral regions do not remain in stagnation or recession, but regain the potential for economic growth.
i thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with much of what you have said, but i would also like to ask you and the other commissioners what your reaction would be to the website of one of the parties in the netherlands, which simply promotes a certain discrimination and hatred against workers who have come to the netherlands from eastern and central europe, because, as you have just said, the free movement of workers directly contributes to both competitiveness and the growth of the gross domestic product of the country concerned. so, in your opinion, is it possible to have an action like this in the netherlands?
vice-president of the commission. − yes of course there has been a follow-up. first of all, we have strengthened the implementation of existing passenger rights, which are already adequate. we have also dealt with complaints by requiring member states to implement the rules on passenger rights. of course, there are always complaints that have not been dealt with satisfactorily, but the system generally works. we are now having a discussion about revisiting passenger rights. we have legislation on passenger rights concerning all modes of transport, and we are engaged in consultation processes with stakeholders. the idea is to fine-tune passenger rights and to make them more proportionate. we will most likely present our ideas to the european parliament and to the committee on transport and tourism by the end of this year.
member of the commission. − (microphone off at start of speech) ... exchanged in the first intervention and i would like to respond quickly to the one on the basque country because i visited the basque country in november and i believe that there are some very good examples, which can also be used in other parts of spain. i am saying that because, although spain has the highest unemployment rate in the european union, in the basque country it is relatively low. it is half the national average and it is partly because of the very developed nature of the social economy. i did not only go to bilbao but also to mondragón to see the conglomerate cooperative and i think this is a good model. in other parts of spain it could be adopted and also it could also serve as an inspiration for other member states. in the basque country, i think there is also a closer connection between how vocational training is developed and what the economy needs and this is also something which we have to work on, not just in the spanish context but also in the wider european context for a better employment result.
vice-president of the commission. − i can start simply by saying that you will have the multiannual financial framework on the table very soon. this will be one element where the european union can stimulate growth and support various regional and social programmes. so i can only urge you to support the commission proposal and the ideas in this proposal, which can support economic growth in countries. it also concerns infrastructure projects, and others do not cut the budgetary proposal. on the one hand, everybody is very much in favour of the european union being active in facilitating economic growth but, when it comes to the money, there is much less enthusiasm.
member of the commission. mr mitchell, if we are to tell the truth to the people, and it is important to respect them by telling the truth, in many countries where we have to make efforts, where we have to reduce deficits and debt, it is a matter of repairing, correcting, learning from mistakes that have been made in the past: too much debt, sometimes bad management, often lack of supervision. we learn lessons collectively and individually. it is a duty to speak the truth and to do so in order to respect future generations and to start from now on a healthier basis. collectively, we also made the right decisions. we must now simply do what we have said and we can see that a more positive spiral is beginning. so can we do some fiscal stimulus, mr. mitchell? you don't even have to ask. there is no more public money to do fiscal stimulus like we used to do. on the other hand, we can create the conditions through this internal market ecosystem that are conducive to trust. i take back the word you used, which is fundamental. we know that trust is one of the keys to growth and, if we are talking about money, i think that the structural funds, which are regional solidarity credits, which your country, mrs bilbao barandica, like many others, receives, must be made as efficient as possible. i think that your country has in the past - since i have been running this policy - made good use of the structural funds for training, small and mediumsized enterprises and research. secondly, we must - and i repeat this for the third time - have the courage and the audacity to implement the commission's proposal on project bonds. a number of future borrowings can be pooled on investments needed by the single market, growth and businesses. this is precisely what we have proposed and i hope that the political will will be there to create these project bonds in the coming months.
member of the commission. − i agree with the honourable member about the importance of economic growth, but please do not forget that the very first contribution of this commission two years ago was the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this was the key objective and it continues to be the key objective. i would reject the notion that the commission is responsible for some kind of wholesale austerity. the commission is not responsible for the monetary policy of the european central bank and we are also working together with the imf to find the best possible solution in a very difficult situation. i do not think that the bubble economies which developed in certain countries, including ireland and spain, are purely the fault of others. those countries have a certain responsibility for their economic management. but we have to find the solutions – in the form of the new economic governance – to the imbalances that developed in the eu. these imbalances have to be handled in the context of an economic and monetary union which must be stronger than in the past and supported by more policies that are capable of delivering investment and cohesion. over and above simple fiscal policy coordination, the commission has always called for solidarity, investment and cohesion. this is our programme and this is what we want to achieve.
i would like to ask the honourable member of the commission, mr kallas, a question. the european union has in fact adopted rather ambitious plans to link the trans-european networks and there is certainly a great deal of merit in your area of responsibility and a great deal of personal thanks to you, but we have a very big problem with air transport. a directive was adopted a few years ago which prohibited the state from supporting air carriers. it happened. we had to privatize, we privatized them, and many of these privatized airlines simply went bankrupt. the situation is similar in the baltic region, including lithuania. we are investing heavily in a variety of tourism strategies and will invest in the future. do you not think that a comprehensive study of the european union on the development of air transport in the baltic region should nevertheless be carried out so that, in the event of a change in circumstances, we would in future have very clear conclusions on how to develop air transport in this region and in lithuania separately in the future?
vice-president of the commission. − i probably cannot answer the last part of the question on studies but of course we can always discuss how to develop and examine regional cooperation and some regional projects. this can be a matter of concrete discussion, but with regard to state aid to airlines – state aid is in the hands of our competition authorities. the commission is always responsible for ensuring that competition is fair. there are certain state aid possibilities for regional airports, for instance, and in order to facilitate and support regional economies, but the commission can never accept that obsolete companies, which cannot survive, be sustained through the use of taxpayers’ money. this creates unfair competition and others will ask for the same and then everything will come from taxpayers’ money. this is a basic principle concerning concrete cases. concrete cases are always under very careful examination. it takes a long time but, if the commission finds that the rules are violated and the situation is not fair, then these kinds of practices must be finished.
in fact, you were right to say that regional support is possible and we know that the low-cost airlines take advantage of it and they are simply supported by the money of the taxpayers in the municipalities. the other question, mr commissioner, is whether you have experience in implementing transeuropean networks. as you know, there are coordinators assigned. the baltic sea strategy includes eight countries, with russia as ninth. there are hundreds of projects. do you not think it is time, however, that a coordinator should be appointed for the implementation of the baltic sea strategy, which includes a large part of your sector?
we're discussing an important issue today. the united nations general assembly has recognized diabetes as one of the four major noncommunicable diseases in the world. we can say it's a global problem, it's an epidemic. the numbers are truly shocking: 33 million sufferers in the european union - 10 percent of the population. there are at least 32 million more at risk. diabetes is a major cost not only to people's health but also to their health care. in many member states, diabetes treatment accounts for more than 10% of healthcare expenditure. it also places a heavy burden on the sufferers themselves. it is therefore necessary to take effective measures immediately with regard to the measures taken by the european union and the member states to combat diabetes and their implementation. so far, just over half of countries have strategies in place: first steps, public education and awareness of risk factors, implementation of health, prevention and screening programmes. a concerted and coordinated effort is needed, involving both the health policy-making institutions and the scientific potential of the european union, as well as the efforts of non-governmental organisations. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr bussutil, and i hope that, with the adoption of this resolution with its truly comprehensive proposals, we can look forward to a more effective fight against diabetes in the european union.
mr president, as the resolution is calling again for a name compromise between the different positions of the country deprived of a name and greece – which is never called a former part of the ottoman empire – we should take a role in the tabling of possible compromises. may i suggest they should be directed not at the past, but at the future? we should not favour such names for our european partners as the former small part of alexander’s empire macedonia, or the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, but rather the future eu member state of macedonia, thus preferring the european future to the less fortunate past. in the same way we should oppose anyone’s request to call ukraine a former part of the grand duchy of lithuania, or the former soviet republic of ukraine. let us look to the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution concerning the additional measures for eff programmes in order to facilitate the management of eu funding, to help accelerate investments in member states and regions and to improve the availability of funding to the economy. the previously adopted measures under the 2008 regulation were not sufficient any more though the additional advance payments made to the member states have provided an immediate cash injection of eur 293 million, within the financial envelope agreed for each member state for the 2007-2013 period. i agree with the commission proposal to allow an increase in interim payments from the european fisheries fund by an amount corresponding to 10% above the actual co-financing rate for each priority axis for the member states which are facing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. this increase will not impose additional financial requirements on the overall budget but will facilitate the implementation of the programmes and will minimise the burden on the national budgets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. as the financial and economic crisis continues, member states are applying severe budgetary constraints and are cutting national budgets, which threatens the timely implementation of cohesion programmes. the implementation of these programmes can have a positive impact on the recovery of member states from recession and on their future economic and social development. the proposal aims to provide additional pre-financing for the european fisheries fund programmes of the six member states, hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland, which receive eu financial assistance under the european financial stabilisation facility and the balance of payments facility. given that this proposal will not have an impact on the eu budget, as it increases only the ceilings for advance payments, but not the financial envelope for the 2007-2013 fisheries fund programmes for these member states, i support this proposal to help these member states overcome the financial crisis by providing the funds needed to support projects and economic recovery.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary not only to provide for measures to increase the use of the european fisheries fund (eff) by the member states, but also to redefine the priorities of the eff itself. the fund should, in particular, be used for productive activities such as fleet renewal and modernisation, enhancing operational sustainability, improving the selectivity of fishing gear and supporting the development of coastal communities. the european commission has to assess to what extent this measure will actually provide the member states concerned with the funds needed to support projects and economic recovery. it should be noted that the investment constraints imposed by the so-called financial support programmes may continue to impede the mobilisation of the required national contribution, even under the new conditions. the commission will therefore have to consider whether the above investment restrictions should be removed or whether the national share of the co-financing should be reduced even further. the commission proposal does not increase the budget for countries in difficulty. the practical result of the reduction of the national contribution will be a relative reduction in the total amount of investment in this sector. this will reduce the growth prospects of the investments made. the principle of cohesion is thus again at risk and the commission will have to consider increasing the funds allocated to these countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the global financial crisis and the unprecedented economic downturn have seriously damaged economic growth and financial stability and have seriously worsened the financial and economic situation in several member states. certain member states are experiencing or are threatened with serious difficulties. in particular, they face problems of economic growth and financial stability, and their deficit and debt situation is deteriorating, driven by the international economic and financial environment. important measures have already been taken to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis, including changes to the legislative framework, and the impact of the financial crisis on the real economy, the labour market and citizens is being strongly felt. the pressure on national financial resources is increasing and further steps should be taken to reduce that pressure by making the maximum and optimal use of the european fisheries fund. the proposal aims to provide additional pre-financing for european fisheries fund programmes for hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland, which receive eu financial assistance under the european financial stabilisation facility and the balance of payments facility. it is also worth noting that this proposal will have no impact on the eu budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to support the commission's proposal, which now considers it necessary to take additional measures to facilitate the management of eu funding, help to accelerate investment in the member states and regions and improve the availability of funds for the economy. but above all, the commission proposes to allow the interim payments from the european fisheries fund to be increased by an amount corresponding to ten percentage points above the actual co-financing rate for each priority axis for member states facing serious difficulties with their financial stability. this is another response to the economic and social consequences of the crisis, in addition to the one already taken by the council in 2008, which allowed the adoption of a council decision granting aid mechanisms to a member state.
in writing. − fisheries policy is one of the eu's most important policy areas in history. the european commission's responsible approach to the proper implementation and financing of this policy is therefore to be welcomed. as some eu countries are facing economic difficulties, it is important to ensure that the financing of the common fisheries policy is not affected. in particular, as we move towards the sustainability and conservation of the common fisheries policy in the new financial programming period, it is important that the sector itself is preserved and prepared for change.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which proposes to increase the support from the european fisheries fund by 10 percentage points for member states in financial difficulty. it is worth noting that the economic and financial crisis has had and continues to have different effects in different member states. in this context, it is appropriate to increase the allocations to those countries most affected by the crisis in order to allow them to continue to implement the european fisheries fund programmes without interruption. it should be noted that the increased benefits would only be paid for a specific period of time until the state overcomes the specific difficulties it is facing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to amend an existing european parliament and council regulation opening an autonomous tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef from the united states and canada. it will implement the steps set out in the memoranda of understanding signed with the us and canada regarding the importation of beef from animals not treated with certain growth-promoting hormones and increased duties applied to certain products of the european communities. the eu will progressively increase to a total of 48 200 tonnes the tariff-rate quota for high-quality beef not treated with growth hormones, and the us and canada will adequately reduce or suspend sanctions on eu products. i support the position that the settlement of the dispute will guarantee that beef imports will be in line with eu requirements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu's dispute with the us and canada over the ban on the import of meat from hormonally fed cattle, which has been going on for more than two decades, is having a negative impact on eu producers. the ban on imports of such beef into the eu has led to trade sanctions on eu agricultural imports such as beef and pork products, cheese, chocolate, juice and others, resulting in a significant loss of market share for eu producers, which amounts to about usd 116.8 million and cad 11.3 million per year. in 2009, bilateral negotiations agreed to the gradual lifting of sanctions on eu agricultural products by the us and canada in exchange for an autonomous duty-free tariff quota for high-quality meat from hormone-free bovine animals. i support this proposal to increase the quotas for high-quality beef from the usa and canada and to remove barriers to eu producers entering the markets of these countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report by the european parliament, as the final settlement of the beef hormone dispute should further promote greater economic and trade integration between the european union and the united states and canada. while opinions may differ, the aim should always be to reach a compromise and not to disrupt bilateral trade. by continuing to remove barriers to trade with its main trading partners, the european union is demonstrating its commitment to strengthening these long-standing economic relations in the trade dimension. the memoranda of understanding and their implementation thus benefit trading partners on both sides of the atlantic. as the us and canada have already lifted all counter-sanctions in 2011, a failure by europe to comply with the agreement could have very negative political consequences and damage transatlantic trade relations. the completion of the legislative procedure would enable the eu to comply with its dispute settlement obligations. the memoranda of understanding, of course, ensure that all beef products covered by this quota will continue to meet the strict food safety requirements laid down in eu legislation. in particular, the market will not be opened up for hormone-treated beef from the usa, canada or any other country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because the conflict over hormone-treated beef has involved a relatively small part of the trade, has reduced trade and has had a strong impact on both sides of the atlantic. the united states and canada were allowed to impose trade sanctions on agricultural products imported from the eu. the close trading partners engaged in a protracted and unconstructive trade dispute. the memoranda of understanding with the united states and the memorandum of understanding with canada provide for a three-step process for the gradual lifting of sanctions on certain union products by the united states and canada respectively. the agreement provides for the gradual abolition of sanctions on eu agricultural products applied by the united states and canada in exchange for an autonomous duty-free tariff quota for high-quality meat from hormone-free bovine animals. the rapid and smooth adoption of this regulation will allow for the restoration and strengthening of honourable relations and the closing of the existing gap in transatlantic trade relations in this sector. the final settlement of the beef hormone dispute should further promote greater economic and trade integration between the eu and the us and canada. while opinions may differ, the aim should always be to reach a compromise and not to disrupt bilateral trade. the eu is demonstrating its commitment to strengthening these long-standing economic relations in the trade dimension by further removing barriers to trade with its main trading partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the autonomous import tariff quota for high-quality beef is part of the compromise finally reached between the eu and the us over the beef and hormones dispute. it is worth noting that this is a good way to improve and develop trade relations between the us and the eu and a great demonstration of the eu's willingness to improve wto dispute settlement methods with a more pragmatic, effective and less politically damaging approach to complex issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the lisbon treaty has brought about a number of institutional changes. the treaty makes the european parliament one of the legislators in the field of trade policy and requires its consent for the conclusion of agreements. the proposal therefore aims to align 26 regulations in the field of trade policy with the legal provisions of the treaty of lisbon, taking account of legal developments. this will allow for a more effective and efficient use of the commission's implementing powers and a more effective and efficient common commercial policy. the harmonisation of the standard procedures procedure will provide for greater clarity in the conduct of trade policy and will increase the overall transparency of trade policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because this proposal, which amends certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy, aims to bring 26 regulations in the field of commercial policy into line with the new primary legislation under the treaty of lisbon. communication based on the treaty of lisbon and the amendments adopted by regulation (eu) no 182/2011 systematically incorporating those amendments into the secondary legislation of the common commercial policy. the communication gives details of the commission's proposal, taking account of the substance of all 26 regulations. it shall weigh all arguments for and against the application of the delegated acts and implementing provisions and compare the advisory and examination procedures. the result is a proportionate balance between the different legal instruments, taking into account the essential legal interests of all the actors concerned, the legislation applicable from 1 december 2009 and the institutional interests of all three european institutions.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which aims to bring the 26 regulations in the field of trade policy into line with the new primary legislation under the treaty of lisbon. in view of this, the procedures currently used for the adoption of different implementing measures should be replaced by procedures for delegated or implementing acts. i consider it appropriate to confer on the commission the power to adopt delegated acts for an unlimited period of time. it should be noted that whenever it is necessary for the commission to consult the member states before taking a decision, the advisory procedure should be followed. in exceptional and critical circumstances, the commission should be able to adopt urgent measures as soon as possible. in urgent cases, the advisory procedure would allow for the adoption of immediately applicable implementing acts. member states should be actively involved and have a say at all stages of the decision-making process on trade policy safeguards. in addition, in order to keep the european parliament and citizens properly informed on all aspects of the eu's trade relations, the commission should make the reports public.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu budget aims, first and foremost, to create added value for the eu as a whole and its citizens. in the context of continuing economic and social difficulties, member states often impose extremely severe economic and budgetary constraints, accompanied by a fall in employment, a slowdown in economic growth, and a reduction in social and other guarantees, which in essence postpone the exit of the member states and the eu as a whole from the crisis. the eu budget as a solidarity measure should not be reduced in 2013 as eu-funded programmes and measures aim to contribute to long-term and sustainable growth in all eu member states, to promoting employment and to further the development of the member states themselves. i therefore agree that the 2013 budget should be geared towards the economic recovery policies of the member states, in particular through increased investment in job creation, youth employment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and other areas covered by the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on the european parliament resolution on the general guidelines for the 2013 budget, as member states are adopting extremely strict budgetary constraints, which are causing unemployment, declining employment, slowing national economic growth and other negative social consequences, in the context of the continuing economic and social crisis. this is exacerbating the crisis in the eu member states. the eu needs to be more determined in its efforts to achieve long-term and sustainable economic growth, eu added value, employment and job creation in all eu member states. i believe that the focus on member states' economic recovery policies is insufficient, and that more investment in job creation, especially in promoting youth employment, more active support for small and medium-sized enterprises, as the main economic engine, and special attention to other areas covered by the europe 2020 strategy are needed. i think we're not paying enough attention to the current crisis, we're dealing with the consequences, not the causes, and in some countries, the situation is getting worse.
in writing. − i have repeatedly stressed that the preparation of the eu budget is, on the one hand, a great opportunity to tackle the real problems facing europe - unemployment, economic recession - and, on the other hand, an opportunity to demonstrate that austerity measures must start from within. i therefore support the view that the eu budget for the coming years must be geared to tackling the crisis, promoting job creation (especially for young people), scientific and technical progress and resource efficiency, but also to making the administrative machinery more efficient and reducing costs.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that the current monetary union system makes it difficult to respond adequately to the current or future economic and social crisis. it should be noted that the budget is not sufficiently flexible. it cannot be increased and made more effective without leading to a weakening of democracy in all member states. the measures to restore sovereignty should therefore be applied in order to restore the economy effectively. europe urgently needs to tackle unemployment and rising poverty. i think it is very important that not only the commission but also the member states give priority to these problems. in particular, it is essential that adequate eu funding continues to be available to support growth efforts. there is a need to identify concrete actions to reduce poverty, promote growth and create jobs, and ways to complement national measures and programmes from the eu budget. in addition, the application of stricter eu funding standards should primarily support companies that do not relocate their operations outside the eu. the budget should include specific actions to support sustainable and long-term industrial policy, competitiveness and smes. eib support for smes and infrastructure should be considered as a top priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of setting up a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. this temporary committee will analyse and assess the extent and impact of organised crime, corruption and money laundering on the european union and its member states, and make proposals in these areas to make the eu better equipped to prevent and combat these threats more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament decision on the establishment of a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering to analyse and assess the extent and impact of organised crime, corruption and money laundering on the european union and its member states. the committee will have to propose appropriate measures to enable the european union to prevent and combat these threats at international, european and national levels. the committee will also analyse and assess the current implementation of european union legislation in the areas of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it will also examine and verify the role and performance of the european union's internal affairs agencies, such as europol, cosi and eurojust, in dealing with organised crime, corruption and money laundering and related areas of security policy. the special committee will be required to organise visits and hearings with the european union institutions and international, european and national institutions, national parliaments and governments of the member states and third countries, representatives of the scientific community, business and civil society, as well as with the general public, victim organisations, officials involved in the daily fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, such as law enforcement officers, judges and court officials.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because it establishes a special committee to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the objective of this special committee is to analyse and assess the current implementation of union legislation in the areas of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and related policies, with a view to ensuring that union legislation and policy is evidence-based and based on the best available threat assessment, and to monitor its compatibility with fundamental rights. i believe that we must take all possible measures to prevent these threats, which is why i have voted in favour of the establishment of this special committee.
in writing. − i think it is appropriate to set up a special committee to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. organized crime is almost always linked to corruption and therefore poses a serious threat not only to the system of governance of a country but also to the political security of the eu as a whole. this is a problem of concern to society and the eu as a whole, and it requires adequate measures to address it. this special committee will help to develop radical measures to prevent crime and corruption at international, national and european levels, which will prevent the spread of threats and allow a complex response to the causes of these phenomena. in addition, the committee will contribute to the development and strengthening of the information, analytical and scientific methodological basis for prevention in the exercise of the functions assigned to it.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, this report is of great importance for lithuania. corruption continues to undermine the lithuanian economy and society. according to the latest corruption perceptions index, lithuania is ranked 19th out of all the eu countries. lithuania scored 4.8 out of 10 (10 points given to a country with high transparency). according to the report, 9 out of 10 lithuanians believe that corruption is the biggest problem facing their country. the head of transparency international, who recently visited lithuania, said that "lithuania's anti-corruption laws and other legislation are welcomed by lawyers and businessmen, but the laws themselves do not work". he's right. i know. we urgently need proper law enforcement. the rapporteur also touches on the problem of organised crime, which unfortunately continues to poison lithuania. earlier this year, europol identified lithuania as one of the five organised crime hotspots in europe with particularly active drug and cigarette smuggling into and out of russia. the situation will worsen if no action is taken in the near future. according to international media, lithuania's shadow economy is likely to account for 20-22 percent of its gross domestic product by 2015.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in its previous resolutions, the european parliament has already expressed the view that the european area of justice must be based on a common judicial culture of lawyers, judges and prosecutors. discussion fora should be encouraged to discuss the establishment of common principles of professional ethics, the rule of law and the principles of the appointment and selection of judges, avoiding the politicisation of the judiciary and promoting mutual trust. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. i support the call in the resolution for an annual forum of judges of all categories to express their views on the problems of the existing legal system, to stimulate more in-depth discussions, to contribute to the formulation of concrete proposals and to improve legal education in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the current training is far from meeting the european commission's objective of providing such training to half of the legal professions in the eu. the study found that the most common reasons for the low number of people receiving training in eu law (53%, and only one third in the last three years) are language barriers, lack of timely information on available programmes, the fact that programmes are not always tailored to the needs of judges, the high workload of judges and the lack of appropriate funding. the european area of justice must therefore be based on a common judicial culture of lawyers, judges and prosecutors, which is not only based on eu law but also developed on the basis of mutual knowledge and understanding of national judicial systems, through a fundamental rethinking of university curricula, exchanges, study visits and joint training, actively supported by the european law academy, the european judicial training network and the european law institute. the further objective would be to coordinate the training provided by existing judicial training schools and to facilitate and promote dialogue and cooperation between professionals. the european parliament proposes that the commission organise an annual forum where judges from all categories working in the field of law can discuss the latest cases of legal disputes or difficulties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because the european area of justice must be based on a common judicial culture of lawyers, judges and prosecutors, not only based on eu law, but also developed on the basis of mutual knowledge and understanding of national legal systems, through a fundamental re-think of university curricula, exchanges, study visits and joint training, actively supported by the european law academy, the european judicial training network and the european law institute. it is necessary to develop a common judicial culture among judges, drawing on the charter of fundamental rights and the work of the venice commission of the council of europe, in order to promote the core values of the judicial profession, to discuss and disseminate common professional ethics, the rule of law and the principles of the appointment and selection of judges, and to avoid the politicisation of the judicial system, while fostering the mutual trust necessary for the creation of a common area of justice. finally, it is proposed that the commission organise an annual forum where judges of all categories working in areas of law that often involve issues at both domestic and cross-border level could discuss the latest cases of legal disputes or difficulties, in order to stimulate discussion, establish contacts, establish channels of communication and cooperation and build mutual trust and understanding.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it should be noted that the organisation of courses for judges is very complex, given their high level of employment and the need to ensure judicial independence. it is therefore essential that training is properly coordinated and adequately funded. the training aims at developing a european judicial culture. it is also essential that the training be tailored to the specific needs of the judges and address the relevant legal issues. i think it would be very practical and effective to train judges to use the latest technology to save costs and to improve their knowledge. in addition, the training should be provided in different languages, thus enabling judges to participate in training in other member states. this will encourage exchange programmes.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur points out, reducing the politicisation of the judiciary is necessary for the strength and well-being of lithuania's democracy. unfortunately, this is an area that is very neglected in lithuania. public confidence in the lithuanian judicial system remains very low. according to the latest data from freedom house, public distrust of the judiciary in lithuania increased sharply in 2011 (up to 44 percent). the report emphasises the need for judicial reform. the small and gradual changes that have been achieved are not enough. suspects in custody are not always provided with timely legal assistance and long pre-trial detention remains a problem. freedom house notes that unlawful police actions against detainees, including minors, continue to be reported, and that judges and prosecutors are responding inadequately to such actions. the weaknesses of the lithuanian legal system are an essential part of the larger problem. according to the latest bertelsmann survey, only 50% of lithuanians think they live in a country where all political rights are granted. i agree with the rapporteur and i think we should try to strengthen the core values of the judicial profession and create a judicial culture. this is essential to build mutual trust between the state and its citizens.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. forced child labour and exploitation remain one of the major problems, particularly in the least developed countries. the cocoa sector is characterised by poverty, outdated farming techniques and child labour. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed concern about the exploitation of children in this sector. i agree that the eu must do more to combat this phenomenon, in particular by including provisions against child exploitation in all trade agreements. it is also necessary to ensure that the eu consistently pursues such positions in all areas, in particular trade and development, to ensure the proper implementation of human rights, social and environmental standards and to apply appropriate sanctions where these standards are not respected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because we must condemn in the strongest terms the use of child labour on cocoa plantations. unacceptable child labour in the cultivation of cocoa trees and the harvesting of cocoa beans shall not be tolerated. the international labour organization (ilo) has estimated that more than 215 million children worldwide are engaged in child labor and in activities that should be prohibited. the european parliament calls on all stakeholders involved in the production and processing of cocoa beans and cocoa products, i.e. governments, the global industry, cocoa producers, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and consumers, to fulfil their respective commitments in the fight against all forms of forced child labour and trafficking in children, to share experiences and to cooperate in order to eliminate the use of child labour in the cocoa supply chain. the european commission should ensure that all trade agreements include effective provisions on poverty reduction and the promotion of decent and safe working conditions and that agreements establish legally binding conditions relating to and the implementation of internationally recognised human rights, social and environmental standards, as well as measures to be applied in the event of violations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution as it calls on all stakeholders involved in the production and processing of cocoa beans and derived products, i.e. governments, the global industry, cocoa producers, trade unions, non-governmental organisations and consumers, to fulfil their respective commitments in the fight against all forms of forced child labour and child trafficking, to share experiences and to cooperate in order to make the cocoa supply chain sustainable and to eliminate the use of child labour. a comprehensive and coordinated plan to tackle the root causes of child labour and to be implemented over time by governments, industry, traders, producers and civil society is the only way to achieve substantial change. i agree that the commission must ensure that all trade agreements include effective provisions on poverty reduction and the promotion of decent and safe working conditions and that agreements include legally binding conditions relating to and enforcement of internationally recognised human rights, social and environmental standards, as well as measures to be applied in the event of breaches.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which, in addition to the decision taken on the international cocoa agreement, denounces the problem of child labour in the cocoa sector. the cocoa sector employs thousands of children today, and this is unacceptable. during the debate, one of the main issues raised by members of the european parliament during the examination of this agreement was the use of child labour in cocoa fields. even though a large proportion of child labour is carried out in the family, the situation is worrying. so i think the problem of the worst forms of child labour must be solved urgently. the resolution acknowledges that producers are under heavy pressure to keep labour costs down, but calls on cocoa farmers, eu policy makers and consumers to face up to their responsibilities in the fight against child labour. the european commission is now called upon to coordinate its various policies and to ensure that all its bilateral agreements include a human rights clause.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because child labour poses unacceptable risks and threats to children's health and development. moreover, it is only through joint efforts that we can combat child labour in cocoa plantations, especially in west africa, where child labour in cocoa farms is the most prevalent form of child labour. in this context, a comprehensive and coordinated plan to address the root causes of child labour must be implemented. a sufficiently high level of resources should also be allocated to this objective, taking into account the scale of the problems. i think that all child labor should be classified as child labor that is being eliminated. in addition, the commission should support more actively measures that increase support for fair trade networks in the cocoa sector and rural cooperatives and enable them to obtain a fair price for their production. this would encourage companies to increase their support for initiatives to combat child labour in cocoa plantations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the text of the new 2010 international cocoa agreement, which will replace the international cocoa agreement 2001, as extended. i support the objectives of this agreement. it will lead to the strengthening of the global cocoa sector, supporting its sustainable development and increasing the benefits to all stakeholders, will provide an appropriate framework for discussion on all cocoa matters among governments and, with the private sector, will strive towards obtaining fair prices, will promote a sustainable cocoa economy in economic, social and environmental terms, will promote transparency in the world cocoa economy, and in particular in the cocoa trade, through the collection, analysis and dissemination of relevant statistics and the undertaking of appropriate studies, and will also promote the elimination of trade barriers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement. the cocoa sector is a vital source of livelihood for 50 million people worldwide. africa is the world's largest cocoa-producing region, from which the eu imports about 80% of its cocoa consumption. the eu, as the world's largest chocolate industry, is very much concerned by this agreement and as the world's largest importer of cocoa, it has a certain responsibility to promote the sustainability of the sector. i support the objectives of this agreement, which aim to ensure greater transparency and economic sustainability in the cocoa sector, fair and transparent cocoa prices and revenues for cocoa farmers, with significant benefits for small farmers and communities in cocoa-growing countries. i believe that given the concern about child labour in this sector, the eu must take the initiative and address this issue with the main cocoa producing countries in order to prohibit the exploitation of minors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation because the new agreement aims to bring more transparency and sustainability to a sector on which the livelihoods of 50 million people worldwide depend. the international cocoa agreement 2010 will replace the current agreement of 2001, to which the european union is a contracting party. the new agreement promotes international cooperation in the global cocoa economy. this agreement should contribute to strengthening the national cocoa economies of the member states, to achieving fair prices that help to ensure fair revenues for cocoa farmers and consumers, and to promoting an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy. the 2010 agreement will improve market transparency by strengthening the role of the international cocoa organisation in the collection, processing and dissemination of data and enhancing its cooperation with industry and ngos. the new agreement will strengthen the mandate of the international cocoa organisation for projects aimed at strengthening the capacity of national cocoa economies to respond to growing demand. the new pact sets clear objectives for a sustainable cocoa economy, recognising the importance of economic viability and social and environmental responsibility at all stages of the value chain.
in writing. in addition to my previous comments for the vote on the report on the conclusion of the international cocoa agreement and the resolution on child labour in the cocoa sector, cocoa beans are still extracted in a labour intensive way because mechanical cutting often damages the beans. i supported this report on the 2010 international cocoa agreement; i would like to remind you, however, that we must remain vigilant, as there have been many reports that cocoa farmers continue to use child labour on cocoa farms. in fact, the international labour organization estimates that more than 215 million children worldwide are working.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that this international cocoa agreement will be of great benefit to the eu, as it is the only contracting party with more than half of the votes of the importing members of the international cocoa organisation. in particular, this agreement will promote an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy. it will also create favourable conditions for fairer and more sustainable global trade in cocoa and strengthen international cooperation between producers and consumers. the application of the provisions of the agreement will improve market transparency, ensure fair cocoa prices, fair revenues, a fair balance between supply and demand for cocoa and promote the quality of cocoa.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report, because it marks an important step towards sustainable, fair, child-labour free cocoa production. the eu is the world’s biggest cocoa consumer, accounting for 40% of global cocoa consumption in 2010, which gives us particular responsibility in this issue. by trading with cocoa producing countries we bear a responsibility for millions of people for whom the industry is their livelihood. we provide them with jobs and allow minimum social standards. in ghana and ivory coast, 90% of the farmers rely on cocoa for their primary income. however, by trading with these countries we are also responsible for child slavery. the situation of children in cocoa-producing countries is horrifying. in the ivory coast alone it is estimated that 100 000 children are put to work in the cocoa industry. the eu has an obligation to ensure child-labour-free cocoa production. i welcome the promotion of fair-trade standards for cocoa, which include no forced labour of any kind, including child labour. i hope countries all over the world – in particular the us, the second biggest cocoa consumer – will take the same approach.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. almost 33 million eu citizens suffer from diabetes and the number of people with the disease is expected to increase significantly over the next decade. in many member states, diabetes already accounts for more than 10% of total healthcare expenditure, with an average of around €2,100 per patient per year. although the growing number of people with diabetes poses a major threat to the healthcare systems of the member states and significantly increases their costs, only fourteen eu member states have national programmes to combat diabetes. i support the call in the resolution for the commission to present an eu diabetes strategy and ensure its implementation in the member states. member states should also take active action in developing national diabetes programmes to promote healthy lifestyles, risk factor reduction, prevention, early diagnosis, diabetes treatment and to provide comprehensive information to the public, especially those at highest risk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because diabetes is one of the most common non-communicable diseases. it is estimated that more than 32 million eu citizens currently suffer from it, representing almost 10% of the eu population, and another 32 million people complain of impaired glucose tolerance and there is a very high probability that this intolerance will progress to clinical diabetes. diabetes that is not treated properly or is diagnosed too late is a major cause of myocardial infarction, stroke, blindness, limb amputation, and renal failure. unfortunately, the lack of funds and infrastructure to coordinate diabetes research in the european union is undermining the competitiveness of eu diabetes research and depriving people with diabetes in europe of the full benefits of research. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to develop and implement a targeted european union diabetes strategy for the prevention, diagnosis, management, education and research of diabetes. member states should develop, implement and monitor national diabetes programmes aimed at promoting health, reducing risk factors, improving prognosis, prevention, early diagnosis and treatment of diabetes, covering both the general public and high-risk groups, and aimed at reducing inequalities and optimising health resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because almost 75% of all people with diabetes are not in good control of their condition, which increases the risk of complications, reduces productivity and increases the cost to society. as the number of people with diabetes increases, as the population ages and as the incidence of comorbidities increases, these costs will inevitably increase. only 16 out of 27 member states have national schemes or programmes in place to combat diabetes, and there are no clear criteria for what constitutes a good programme or which countries have best practice. there are large differences and inequalities in the quality of diabetes care in the eu. member states are to develop, implement and monitor national diabetes programmes aimed at promoting health, reducing risk factors, improving prognosis, prevention, early diagnosis and treatment of diabetes, covering both the general public and high-risk groups, and aimed at reducing inequalities and optimising health resources in order to achieve the objectives of noncommunicable diseases and to address public health, social and economic challenges, it is important that the eu and the member states focus more on prevention and risk reduction in all relevant legislative and policy areas, in particular environmental, food and consumer policies.
in writing. - i support this resolution, as only joint efforts can effectively combat the diabetes epidemic, which is spreading at a constant and rapid rate. in this context, it is necessary to develop and implement an eu diabetes strategy at eu level. in addition, each member state should develop and implement its national diabetes programmes and effectively implement the prevention of type 2 diabetes and obesity as well as best practice diabetes management guidelines and evidence-based treatment guidelines. with the ever-increasing number of people with diabetes, i believe that the commission should develop common standard criteria and methods for the collection of data on diabetes. it is also essential that it manages comprehensive epidemiological data on diabetes, as well as economic data on the direct or indirect costs of diabetes prevention and management, in constructive cooperation with the member states. it is also essential that adequate funding is allocated to the fight against diabetes.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur reminds us of the seriousness of the diabetes epidemic in europe. diabetes kills 325,000 people in the european union every year, or 2 people every two minutes. studies at vilnius university have shown that the death rate from diabetes in lithuania has been steadily increasing over the past two decades. the report shows that obesity is the most common cause of this disease. the rate of obesity in lithuania is over 20%, the second highest in the european union, and 5% above the union average. according to a report published by the european commission and the organisation for economic cooperation and development, 50.1 percent of europeans are obese - twice as many as 20 years ago. diabetes and obesity are costly not only to human health, but also to the health care system. the european union and the organisation for economic cooperation and development report estimate a 70% increase in healthcare expenditure for the eu member states between 2007 and 2015 due to the spread of diabetes. in lithuania, more than 10% of the healthcare budget is spent on diabetes treatment. these costs are likely to increase unless serious action is taken to tackle the problem of diabetes - as the rapporteur mentioned, the number of people with diabetes in europe is expected to increase to 16.6% by the 2030s.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the thessaloniki european council in 2003 committed itself to eventually welcoming all the western balkan countries into the eu. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was one of the first countries in the western balkans region to be granted candidate status. the country has implemented a number of important reforms and has the highest support among its population for eu accession. the country has repeatedly stressed the importance of eu and nato integration, but the ongoing name conflict with greece and the fact that greece was prevented from being invited to join nato in 2008 prevent it from effectively pursuing european and transatlantic integration. for the last three years, the commission has recommended to the council in its annual progress reports that it set a date for the start of negotiations, but this request has been ignored. i agree that, in view of the significant political and structural reforms already undertaken by this country, the council should take the commission's recommendation into account and set a date for the start of negotiations without delay. i believe that the 2011 judgment of the international court of justice should help to resolve the existing conflicts between this country and greece, and that these countries should make greater efforts to find a compromise and remove the obstacles to transatlantic development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the commission's assessment in its 2011 progress report states that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia consistently meets the political criteria. the european parliament regrets that the council has not taken account of the commission's recommendations for the third consecutive year and that the council did not take a decision to open accession negotiations with this country at its meeting on 9 december 2011. the european parliament also appreciates the country's economic performance and maintained macroeconomic stability and welcomes the fact that the world bank's 'business' report has declared it the third country in the world to successfully implement regulatory reforms over the last five years. however, more efforts are needed to avoid the misuse of politically motivated defamation against journalists. a free press is the foundation of democracy and a prerequisite for any country wishing to become a member of the eu. the media sector should develop and implement high professional journalistic standards and observe rules of journalistic ethics. the european parliament also calls on all stakeholders to promote and contribute to the development of an independent, pluralistic, multi-ethnic and multicultural civil society in the country, based on non-partisan principles.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on the european parliament resolution on the 2011 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, despite the fact that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was one of the first countries in the western balkans region to be granted candidate status, has a number of important reforms and has the highest support among its population for eu accession. the country has repeatedly stressed the desire and importance of integration into the eu and nato. however, the ongoing name conflict with greece and the fact that greece has been prevented from being invited to join nato have prevented it from effectively pursuing european and transatlantic integration. i believe that both sides in the conflict must immediately begin to resolve the existing, protracted conflicts and make greater efforts to find a compromise and remove the obstacles that hinder this development.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the commission is recommending for the third time that the council open accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i hope that this time the council will be able to take a decision on this. the country's progress is long-term and consistent, and it is important that the eu recognises the work already done and encourages a consolidating euro-optimism in society, and, most importantly, gives a new impetus to reform. the pace of the integration process depends on compliance with the copenhagen criteria and on real progress in the transposition and implementation of the acquis. bilateral issues must not become the main or only obstacle to progress. it is therefore important that a genuine dialogue on the name be opened between greece and macedonia in the near future. a bilateral commission of historians could help politicians to find common ground. in a more general context, it is important to note the importance of establishing a dialogue on historical issues between all the countries of the region. an open and unpolitical view of history's most painful moments is essential for the well-being of societies and for friendly relations with neighbours.
in writing. − i believe that macedonia's prospects for full eu membership depend very much on the resolution of the name dispute, which is holding up the country's eu accession process and is also creating obstacles to the enlargement process itself. bilateral issues should therefore be resolved as early as possible in a constructive manner, taking into account the common interests and values of the eu. they cannot be obstacles to the accession process or a deliberate delay to it. attention should be drawn to the fact that the basis and success of the accession process is the fulfilment of commitments, the fulfilment of conditions and the reliability of the process. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states, including from the commission, the council and the european parliament. in addition, an environment conducive to greater business investment should be created and smes should be supported more effectively, and good practice in advising business community representatives should be continued.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this progress report because the democratic values of the european union are necessary for a country ravaged by war and unrest. the country has made significant progress in the integration process over the past five years, with reforms in the areas of justice, decentralisation and administrative division, which have been welcomed by the world bank. the country has also received an invitation to join nato once the country's name issues are resolved. i agree with the calls for the state to address the country's name problem constructively and to ensure that it does not put a stop to the country's integration process, internal reforms and the development of good neighbourly relations, and that the eu does not close the door on this. i also support the concerns about the human rights situation, media pluralism, corruption and agree that there is a need for continued cooperation and reform.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. iceland has a long history of close cooperation with the eu as a member of the european economic area, schengen and the dublin ii agreements, and has transposed and applies much of eu law. iceland is also contributing to european cohesion and solidarity through the application of the financial mechanism in line with the principles of the european economic area and is pursuing sufficiently effective economic and fiscal consolidation which has contributed to the improvement of the economic situation. iceland, with its long history, strong democratic traditions and high level of civic culture, will be strengthened by accession. in fact, iceland was the first country to announce its recognition of lithuania as a restored independent state. i believe that iceland's achievements in the defence and protection of human rights and its high level of cooperation with international human rights organisations will allow the eu to strengthen its position in the defence of human rights on a global scale.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because iceland contributes to european cohesion and solidarity by applying the financial mechanism in accordance with the principles of the european economic area and cooperates with the european union in peacekeeping and crisis management operations. the european parliament welcomes the prospect of a new eu member state with a long history and a strong democratic tradition and civic culture. welcomes the progress made by iceland in the protection of human rights and in ensuring a high level of cooperation with international human rights organisations; iceland's membership of the european union would significantly enhance the eu's ability to play a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, and thus contribute to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions in the region, given the mutual concern for the protection of the arctic environment. iceland could become a strategic hub in the region and its eu membership would further strengthen europe's participation in the arctic council. iceland should strengthen its preparatory work to align its legislation with the acquis of the european union, in particular in areas not covered by the agreement on the european economic area, and ensure its implementation and application by the date of accession.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because, with eight chapters already negotiated and provisionally concluded and three more chapters already negotiated, iceland is already closely involved in the eu as a member of the european economic area (eea), the schengen agreements and the dublin ii regulation, and has therefore already adopted a large part of the union's acquis. many icelanders welcome the fact that accession negotiations are ongoing and that icelandic society is actively involved in the public debate on eu membership. iceland's membership of the eu would significantly enhance the union's ability to play a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, and thus contribute to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions in the region, given the mutual concern for the protection of the arctic environment. iceland could become a strategic hub in the region and its eu membership would further strengthen europe's participation in the arctic council. i believe it is important to create the conditions necessary to complete the accession process for iceland and to ensure that its accession is a success. i am positive about the prospect of a new eu member state with a long history and a strong democratic tradition and civic culture.
in writing. - i am particularly pleased to speak about iceland, as it was the first country to recognise lithuania's independence 21 years ago. i welcome the progress made by this country in preparing for possible membership of the european union as a member of the european economic area, it is adopting most of the acquis communautaire with reasonable ease. however, i agree with the comments on the protection of fisheries and marine resources. i believe that, as the adoption of the new common fisheries policy approaches, it is essential that sustainable and resource-efficient fishing is implemented, even in non-eu countries that are closely linked to the eu.
in writing. - i support this resolution. iceland is one of the oldest democracies in europe. iceland and the eu cooperate closely in many areas, and its membership has enhanced the eu's role in northern europe and the arctic. it should be noted that the country made significant progress towards eu membership in 2011. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of personal data. it should be noted that the icelandic authorities must pay particular attention to the decision of icsave bank, which cannot become an obstacle to iceland's eu accession process. i think that the problem of the state's heavy interference in the banking sector should be resolved as soon as possible. in addition, certain industries should be reformed and opened up to foreign players.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which takes stock of the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina towards membership of the european union. the report indicates that the country has not implemented the crucial reforms in the key areas of state-building, governance, implementation of the rule of law and others for a sufficient period of time. this was due to the failure of the political parties to agree on the formation of a new government after 15 months. bosnia and herzegovina will need to make further efforts to implement the necessary reforms identified in the report, such as ensuring an impartial, independent and effective judiciary, establishing a supreme court, combating corruption and trafficking in human beings more effectively, prosecuting criminals and in other areas, in order to accelerate progress at all levels and implement the country's commitments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the european union remains firmly committed to supporting an independent and united bosnia and herzegovina. one of the key objectives of eu policy is to accelerate the country's progress towards eu membership and thus help improve the quality of life for all citizens. the european parliament endorses the european union's overall strategy on bosnia and herzegovina, which aims to increase the eu's involvement in bosnia and herzegovina and to appoint an eu representative with wider mandates, with a dual role of eusr and head of delegation. the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina should be more effective in investigating and prosecuting corruption cases and should ensure that more offenders are prosecuted. it is worth noting that the authorities of the country are pursuing an action plan to combat corruption in the civil service. in addition, the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina should actively protect and defend the rights of all groups and individuals who should be protected from direct or indirect discrimination and violence. the european parliament calls on the government of bosnia and herzegovina and the neighbouring countries to do everything possible to resolve border disputes with the neighbouring countries through bilateral agreements or other means.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it takes stock of the progress made by bosnia and herzegovina towards eu membership. however, bosnia and herzegovina still has a long way to go in implementing the necessary reforms to become a full eu member. it is necessary for bosnia and herzegovina to ensure an impartial, independent and efficient judicial system, to establish a supreme court, to combat corruption in all its forms more effectively, and to fully pursue the rule of law. it is necessary to combat trafficking in human beings, to prosecute criminals, etc. i believe that the commitments undertaken must be implemented and the shortcomings identified in the report must be fully addressed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a resolution calling on the new government of bosnia and herzegovina to take immediate concrete steps to ensure that the potential candidate country is firmly on the path of european reforms and demonstrates the necessary progress in the near future. the process of european integration can be an essential stabilizing and consolidating factor, defining the strategic direction of the country's development, helping to avoid a backlog in the implementation of the necessary internal economic and social reforms. the agreement reached by the main political forces suggests that the process of european integration will be intensified. it is noteworthy that truth and justice are essential to reconciliation. a broad and open internal dialogue on recent history, including with other countries in the region, based on facts rather than emotions, is essential for the well-being of society and for friendly relations with neighbours.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that in 2011 bosnia and herzegovina has made little progress in the areas of stabilisation and socioeconomic development. in particular, full eu membership requires constitutional reforms and the harmonisation of four different legal systems. it is important to stress that the border issues with neighbouring countries must be resolved as soon as possible, and that a single, sovereign and united state cannot be a member of the eu.
in writing. − in the past six months, bosnia and herzegovina has managed to form a new government, and has passed important state aid and population census laws. however, i agree with the commission and council representatives who stressed that bosnia and herzegovina must continue to act actively and reform its constitutional framework, its judicial system, agree on fiscal measures, ensure the formation of civil society, respect and implementation of human and social rights, and seek ways to prevent corruption, radicalism and trafficking in human beings. the european parliament encourages the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina to be resolute and united in pursuing reforms and progress so that the people of the country can live in a politically stable and economically strong state. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the principles and objectives of the european union's policies are in the interests of the people of bosnia and herzegovina and that continued cooperation is necessary to achieve greater progress for this country.
i have been observing the duma and presidential elections in russia at three-month intervals. despite the fact that i witnessed the rigging of the election results in one of the districts of moscow during the duma elections, which was captured on video camera by one of the members of the commission, i returned from russia not too disappointed. the main impression: in moscow and st. petersburg, i saw the great public interest in the elections; the sincere desire of many people, especially the youth, to prevent any falsifications. this was evidenced by the fact that the majority of the members and observers of the committees of the opposition parties and presidential candidates were also present. it is therefore regrettable that the participation of a larger number of parties and candidates for the presidency in both the first and the second elections was artificially prevented. and in the media, the ruling party and the candidate for power had a greenhouse condition, while the opposition had political troublemakers and a cold. but this desire to finally hold an honest and fair election has already permeated not thousands, but hundreds of thousands and millions of russian citizens, as demonstrated by huge demonstrations in moscow, st. petersburg and elsewhere. polls show that 10 years ago, about 20 percent of the country's population would have supported russia's european path, but now 30 percent would have chosen it, and that is more than half of all young people. this trend makes us more optimistic about the future of russia, but it is worth remembering that about 40 percent want a special path for russia, one that could take it further away from democracy and human rights. i therefore strongly support those colleagues who are in favour of intensifying dialogue with russia at all levels and of using the european union's opportunities to encourage russia to take the european path.
mr president, the european union, as russia’s direct neighbour, has followed with particular interest the election process and widespread ongoing protests in russia on both the state duma and presidential elections. we observed the so-called carousel voting on election day, vote fraud, and other irregularities and shortcomings reported by international observers. taking all this into account, as well as the announcement of potentially competitive candidates and tv broadcasting during the election campaign, which was 90% dominated by one candidate, we cannot draw any other conclusion than, firstly, presidential elections were neither free nor fair, consequently the legitimacy of the president-elect is questionable. secondly, the russian people are fighting for free elections and they deserve our support and solidarity. finally, arrests of dozens of peaceful protestors across russia during demonstrations after the disputed victory of vladimir putin deserve our condemnation. all this has to be stated in our resolution.
i have to admit that i am concerned about this tendency to try to replace real actions with beautiful, polite and correct phrases in response to a fundamental problem, and in kazakhstan we are facing a very serious problem. this is the direction that has taken after the elections in april 2011, when nursultan nazarbayev became president again. for a long time, kazakhstan stood out as a strong contrast to other central asian states: it was more tolerant, more secular, and superior to other countries in the region not only in its economic progress but also in its openness. unfortunately, what we have seen since then are attacks on freedom of opinion and thought, politically motivated trials, mass arrests of political prisoners, and finally the brutal shooting of workers demonstrating in the city of zanoazen. i am therefore convinced that we cannot in this place, just because we are talking about an important, rich and economically potential country, renounce things like democracy, human rights and the very fact that they cannot be negotiated in general. i would therefore like to add that the thing that shocked me was, for example, the arrest of vladimir kozlov, leader of the people's party, as soon as he returned from strasbourg, after a plenary session where he met with me and other colleagues. it seems to me that until these people are released, until they are held incommunicado, which is what is being done right now, there can be no talk of any kind of conscious government position or any kind of concessions that we would make. either political prisoners, dissidents are released, or we have to give a very serious warning and respond even more strongly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in belarus is serious and deteriorating. political arrests, questionable trials, threats to opponents of the regime and the press are on the rise. there are visa restrictions for travel to and from the european union. tragically, two young men were sentenced to death after a questionable trial with insufficient evidence, the place and time of which are kept secret, even from their families. at the same time, it must be acknowledged that the expulsion of ambassadors shows that the regime has no nerve, and it must therefore continue to be stressed that the development of our relations is directly dependent on its ability to fulfil its commitments in the field of human rights and the rule of law. of course, belarus is a small country, lacking in natural and energy resources. however, in strengthening sanctions against the lukashenka regime, we must also avoid the double standards we sometimes use in assessing similar events, for example in russia. certain sanctions against the regime's main enforcers should be extended to include a ban on entry into the european union, the freezing of assets and bank accounts. sanctions should be directed at specific individuals and businesses that support the regime, but not at the people or small businesses. if we break off cooperation with belarus, the belarusian people will suffer the most, and we will become not allies but abusers. but the regime's leadership will survive by blaming us for their troubles. our sanctions must serve as a political tool, and that means supporting civil society in belarus. thank you.
is it the cold war geese, the expulsion of ambassadors, or the return to the cancers of dialogue? official minsk has yet to decide on its relationship with the european union. sadly, however, the country has become increasingly isolated in recent times. this means that the upcoming parliamentary elections in belarus will again be without any choice. minsk could revive its relations with the european union by releasing and rehabilitating all political prisoners, which would not be a capitulation to eu pressure but a step towards the implementation of basic human rights in the country. i think that belarus' partners in euronest and russia should also encourage belarus to take such actions. the eu does not want to see a worsening of the already fragile relations, so as not to harm the ordinary people of the eu and belarus. there are no compelling reasons that would prevent the countries of the european union from cooperating with their neighbour belarus. the fate of this country will be decided in belarus itself, and the intensification of the action of the national platform of civil society forum should be welcomed. in recent years, opposition figures and journalists have been prevented from leaving the country, and such cases are becoming more frequent. i think the european union should take note of these things and demand that freedom of movement, which is one of the basic rules of democracy, should also be implemented in minsk.
for the efd group there has been an increase in criminal attacks on fishing, commercial and passenger vessels in international waters. this puts the lives and safety of both crew and passengers at risk and has a strong negative impact on international trade. it is therefore necessary to ensure the free movement and safety of ships legitimately engaged in their business on the high seas, which is an essential prerequisite for international trade. the legal instruments to combat piracy and armed robbery must be reviewed, updated and adapted to the current situation as soon as possible in order to prosecute and punish the perpetrators of these crimes in accordance with applicable international law. particular attention should be paid to enhancing ship security, to possible assistance to ship crews and their family members, to the action of international organisations in the fight against piracy and to other important and necessary initiatives. the european union is committed to the development of a global response to the challenges posed by modern piracy and armed attacks on ships, through both political and legal efforts, in order to eradicate piracy.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr davies on the roadmap to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 requires a thorough analysis and evaluation of its provisions in view of its impact and implications for the future. the introduction of new restrictions on member states for failing to meet the already excessive co2 emission standards for the countries of the european union cannot be accepted. the so-called fight against global warming, which is unilateral because it is only european, is becoming dangerous for the competitiveness of individual economies. it also threatens the economic security of its citizens. the measures proposed in the report will have a significant impact on energy prices and production costs in the new eu member states, which is unacceptable. the enlargement of the union was intended to help the economic development of central and eastern europe. but co2 emissions trading and the proposal for a rapid transition to a low-carbon economy will slow this development. the ideology of fighting global warming must not be allowed to limit the development of new members of the union. the report calls for its early implementation to widen the already wide gap in living standards between the old and new member states. promoting low-carbon energy is cooling down, not strengthening the european economy. nature must be protected, but not at the expense of the impoverishment of half the population of europe and europe alone.
i did not vote for the resolution for two reasons. first, i was an observer myself in the local, state and presidential elections. i've spoken to all the candidates' representatives, and none of them have any complaints. the allegation that the elections were illegitimate is false and a gross misrepresentation of the members of the european parliament who were not present. secondly, i am convinced that the european parliament has no moral right to preach to others as long as there are more serious human rights violations and even crimes in its own union, when it puts secondaries in, pockets the cameras, imposes house arrest during elections, prevents meetings with voters, conducts illegal searches, seizes funds, blocks the activities of parties, slanders on state television. the worst part is that the european parliament ignores and even conceals the crimes committed by the member states of the european union against opponents. falsified cases are being filed, the opposition is being dragged into court proceedings, and people are being dragged out of court year after year. the mechanism was created only after 10 or 15 years, allowing to prove his truth after the political career was ruined.
i voted in favour of this resolution, although i do not think it fully appreciates the results of the presidential elections in russia. it is important that in this resolution the european parliament has assessed the presidential elections in russia, and that assessment is unambiguous. the presidential elections were not free and fair. this means that both the results of the state duma elections held last december and the presidential elections held this month are disputed, and the legitimacy of those who claim victory is also in question. logically, some colleagues suggested including in this resolution a proposal to russia not only to change some laws, but also to hold early elections to the state duma not long after. colleagues, russia is different after this election. and this different russia will have to be treated with care and respect by both the european union and the russian authorities. what we call business as usual can no longer be.
mr president, i voted in favour of the whole resolution despite the fact that the text could have made a clearer evaluation of 4 march’s fraudulent events in russia for election to the office of president. therefore, i wish to announce here at least one amendment, which was tabled as aa among the recitals and should have been seen as essential to the event but it did not pass the procedure. so it reads, ‘whereas, if it were taken seriously, the procedure of selecting a candidate to be president of russia could not be considered to be a competitive and true election’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the competitive low carbon economy in 2050. i believe that our future lies in the development of clean technologies and sustainable rural development. our common european climate change policy strategies and the global race for the efficient use of resources need to be seen as opportunities. in the context of the current economic crisis, the existing targets for 2020 are sufficiently ambitious. therefore, it is important to indicate clear guidelines for the period after 2020 and to encourage investments in sustainable technologies. it will be important to give incentives for the development of low carbon technologies, particularly in the context of the european funding programme for research and innovation, horizon 2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament and the european council aim to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 80-95% by 2050. however, it is already clear that this will be difficult to achieve, as no specific targets and measures to reduce emissions have yet been agreed. i support the european parliament's proposal to set intermediate 2030 and 2040 co2 reduction targets covering specific sectors, to set timetables and to propose measures taking into account the specificities, national capacities and potential of individual member states. it is also necessary to maximise energy efficiency, to promote the development of renewable energy and to take decisions on energy storage, energy efficiency and the development of efficient energy transmission infrastructure. the eu must also play a more active role in international fora and negotiations and bring together other countries to reach an ambitious, comprehensive and legally binding agreement on climate change as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because it is necessary to assess and seek to eliminate the risk that, on a global scale, if insufficient efforts are made, actions taken within the european union may lead to a shift in market share and the use of less efficient installations in other countries, leading to an increase in global emissions, i.e. carbon leakage. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to propose, over the next two years, the measures necessary to achieve the 2030 targets, taking into account the specific national capacities and potential as well as international progress in the implementation of climate protection measures. such measures should be implemented in a coherent, cost-effective and efficient manner. the european commission should also provide an economic benefit analysis, examining how the proposed approach is implemented at member state level, taking into account national circumstances resulting from the different technological developments and the necessary investments (and their social acceptability) and the wider variety of possible conditions in the world. it is important to note that the creation of a low-carbon economy would provide many opportunities for creating additional jobs, while ensuring economic growth and providing a competitive advantage to european industry.
in writing. − i abstained in voting in favour of this document because i believe that the adoption of the plan, together with the prospect of reducing emissions and the intermediate stages proposed in the plan for european competitiveness, will create obstacles and will be of little use. the european union currently emits only 11% of the world's carbon dioxide, and our actions alone are not slowing down the warming process. i agree that we need to support technologies that are leading the way and invest in processes that are much more efficient in the use of energy and resources. however, it should be borne in mind that china still accounts for 70% of its electricity supply and there is no guarantee that its targets in the current five-year plan, which prioritises green investment in low-carbon technologies, will be met, although this is envisaged to a much larger scale than in europe. i am convinced that there is a real reason to believe that carbon leakage may occur when companies move from europe to avoid the higher costs of implementing measures to reduce carbon emissions. these changes would not benefit the european economy and would do nothing to reduce global emissions. if these cases can be proven, measures should be taken to protect the industries concerned or compensation should be paid. i therefore believe that the measures must be adequate and logically balanced.
in writing. - i would like to draw attention to a number of aspects of this report. first, i am convinced that we should not set specific co2 reduction targets. the setting of such mandatory targets would both reduce the eu's competitiveness and place a burden on smaller eu member states. secondly, i would like to stress the need to increase energy efficiency and promote renewable energy (alongside the development of smart grids). energy efficiency (as well as other resource efficiency) would not only contribute to reducing carbon dioxide emissions, but would also have positive economic effects by saving on increasingly expensive raw materials.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on discriminatory internet sites and government reactions. at the beginning of february, the dutch freedom party (pvv) launched an internet site calling on people to report complaints arising from the ‘massive labour migration’ of ‘central or eastern european citizens’, in particular poles, romanians and bulgarians and asking people whether they have experienced any problems in terms of anti-social behaviour and whether they have lost their jobs to one of those citizens. this attitude is not acceptable; it represents clear discrimination against european citizens and goes against fundamental freedoms, european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and risks destroying the very basis of the union, which is pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and freedom of movement. i support the european parliament’s call on the commission and the council to do their utmost to stop the spread of xenophobic attitudes such as those expressed on this website and to ensure the effective implementation of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia in all member states.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the free movement of eu citizens is one of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the eu treaties, and eu member states are obliged not to discriminate against people from other member states who come to live and work in their countries. the online complaint hotline set up by the dutch freedom party for migrant workers from central and eastern european countries is fundamentally contrary to the eu's fundamental values and violates the principles of human dignity, freedom and equality on which the european union is founded. the debate in plenary and the joint condemnation of this initiative by the political group leaders made it clear that the union will not tolerate actions that promote antagonism and incite hatred among the people of the eu. i believe that citizens of some eu member states cannot be considered second-class citizens and that member state governments must ensure that any actions that promote racist or xenophobic behaviour are strictly prohibited.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because we must stop the creation of websites or hotlines discriminating against workers in other eu member states. we must defend the free movement of workers and we cannot allow the creation of a second-class of workers discriminated against in the european union labour market. the actions of the dutch freedom party to set up a website discriminating against workers in central and eastern europe are reprehensible. the official figures clearly show that the workers from central and eastern europe contribute to the growth of the dutch economy through their work and contribute to the budget of the country through their taxes. both the netherlands and all other eu member states must respect the free movement of workers, as this freedom benefits citizens of all eu countries. the free movement of workers is one of the european union's most important values, and therefore all workers must have equal rights, equal pay for equal work, and equal working conditions. we cannot allow the creation of a second class of workers in the european union labour market, without any rights and without any guarantees. this is how we remember all the social norms that we have established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the european union is founded on the values of democracy and the rule of law and on full respect for human rights and freedoms, as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the echr. member states have an obligation to all eu citizens to ensure that they are not discriminated against or stigmatised when living and working throughout europe. the establishment of the vat hotline openly incites discrimination against european union workers from central and eastern european countries and encourages the fragmentation of communities in dutch society, which can no longer be tolerated. this website is prejudicial to the free movement of persons and infringes the right of individuals to non-discrimination. we need to promote the core european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and this can undermine the very foundations of the union - pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and freedom of movement.
in writing. − i am from lithuania, which is celebrating its eighth year of membership of the european union. unfortunately, in western europe we are still the new member states and our citizens are considered second-class europeans. i regret that this is also the case for the political parties in the eu member states, and that the national governments do not object to this. we declare that the values of the european union are pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance and solidarity. sadly, many people prefer not to promote and enforce these values but to seek popularity by fomenting ethnic hatred. i condemn this policy and call on the dutch government to prevent the sharp rhetoric which could at any time escalate into real acts of violence.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. russia has always been and remains the eu's strategic partner and closest neighbour. russia, as a member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, is committed to respecting the universally accepted principles of democracy and the protection of human rights. the osce expressed its concern about the organisation and conduct of the presidential elections in russia, in particular with regard to the remaining difficult situation regarding the registration of political parties and the limited number of candidates. i support the call in the resolution for the new russian president to work more closely with the eu on key reforms and enhanced human rights protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the results of the russian presidential elections, as there is still great concern about the developments in the russian federation with regard to respect for and protection of human rights, as well as respect for universally recognised democratic principles, electoral rules and procedures. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and is therefore committed to the principles of democracy and respect for human rights. president medvedev should back up his words with action and ensure that the necessary reforms of the political system are adopted. the new russian president must be prepared to continue reforms, including the much-needed simplification of the rules governing the registration of political parties. it is necessary to address the problems of freedom of the media, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, to work towards increasing respect for human and fundamental rights (the release of political prisoners is a key issue here) and the effectiveness of an independent system of the rule of law in russia.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the election results surprised no one, nor, unfortunately, did the events that followed. i would like to ask, rhetorically, whether the european union is satisfied with the current state of its strategic partnership with russia and whether the eu believes that the current formats, such as the human rights dialogue, are producing any tangible results? the eu and russia are mutually dependent, but the eu's strategic partner is not afraid to take advantage of the eu's member states' disadvantages, for example in the energy sector. the eu is sometimes seen as either drowning in pink smoke or in a sphere of pure pragmatism that is dangerous for russia. friendship is very desirable, but only if it is genuine. the second putin era, which has just begun, will only see the rise of hard-line rule and an uncompromising style of politics, and the european parliament will likely have to return to the issue of human rights and democracy in russia on several occasions.
in writing. − in st petersburg, while observing the presidential elections, i did not see anyone trying to advise or teach the candidate to vote for, but i noticed that the loopholes in the voting procedure made it very easy to do so. on the other hand, the kremlin's $100 million investment in election modernization has complicated the traps of potential fraudsters. i agree with the experts that many russians are frightened by the noisy opposition rallies, the demands for a change of government, the holding of new elections to the duma. the twelve years of putin's rule have been characterized by stability, a steady, albeit modest, improvement in living conditions, and the avoidance of a major crisis. this is in contrast to the times of gorbachev and yeltsin, when politics was done in the street and reforms hurt the common man. i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses that the recent surge in citizen activism will not end and will become a social movement forcing the authorities to completely overhaul the political system and to simplify the rules governing the registration of political parties, candidates for the presidential elections and their participation in elections. only with a transformed russia will it be possible to develop further functional and dynamic relations in the future, and to build prosperity for europe and russia.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. eu-kazakhstan relations are based on the partnership and cooperation agreement signed in 1999. in 2011, negotiations began on a new eu-kazakhstan agreement, which is expected to replace the current agreement. recently, kazakhstan has seen an increase in unrest, which has claimed human lives. in addition, repressive sanctions have been imposed on trade union activities, aggressive attacks against independent media continue, and the human rights situation in the country is deteriorating rapidly. i support the calls in the resolution for the kazakh government to ensure an independent international investigation into the events in western kazakhstan and to ensure that those responsible for these violent attacks are brought to justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the european union and kazakhstan could benefit greatly from closer cooperation. the european parliament supports this objective, stressing that economic cooperation must be carried out in conjunction with political cooperation and be based on political will in order to implement and respect common values. it should be noted that kazakhstan plays a key role in ensuring the social and economic development of central asia and the stability and security of the region. the european parliament expresses its deep concern and condolences over the events of 16 december 2011 in the region of zhanaozen in kazakhstan, which left 17 dead and 110 injured. it also strongly condemns the use of violence by police forces in their clashes with the demonstrators in zhanaozen and calls for an independent and credible investigation into these events, with the participation of international actors. it is essential to continue to work towards strengthening relations and political and economic cooperation between the european union and kazakhstan, including in strategic areas such as democracy, human rights, environmental protection, energy, trade and transport, as well as the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the european union and kazakhstan should cooperate more closely and this would be beneficial for both sides. economic cooperation must be conducted in conjunction with political cooperation and be based on political will to implement and respect common and universally recognised values. kazakhstan plays a key role in ensuring the social and economic development of central asia and the stability and security of the region. parliament expressed its deep concern and condolences at the events in the region of zhanaozen in kazakhstan, where police forces used violence against demonstrators in zhanaozen. i believe that an independent, credible and impartial investigation into these events is necessary. international representatives should also be involved in the investigation. the european union and kazakhstan should seek to strengthen political and economic cooperation in areas such as democracy, respect for human rights, environmental protection, energy, trade and transport, as well as the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a resolution drawing attention to the worrying recent developments and the negative development of the human rights situation in kazakhstan in the context of the negotiations for a new comprehensive eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement. kazakhstan is an important partner of the eu in central asia, but deepening relations must be conditional on concrete steps. the kazakh leadership should take further steps to implement the osce odhir recommendations, to hold accountable those responsible for the deaths of demonstrators, and to ensure freedom of assembly, religion and the media. eu-kazakhstan cooperation should be strengthened in the areas identified in the resolution. at the same time, i believe that special attention should be paid to the prevention of radicalisation, in particular through youth employment promotion, education and non-formal education.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. since 2009, more than 935 people have been killed in nigeria as a result of violent attacks. many of the country's problems are also rooted in decades of conflict between indigenous ethnic groups, which has fueled ethnic, religious, and political divisions that have affected thousands of people. this situation in the country hinders its economic development. nigeria is the world's eighth-largest oil producer, yet a large proportion of its population lives below the poverty line. i support the call in the resolution for the nigerian authorities to promote effective dialogue between people of different religious faiths and to promote freedom of thought, conscience and religion. there is also a need to combat poverty and inequality more effectively, in particular by tackling corruption and the exploitation of nigeria's natural resources by foreign companies. the european external action service should thus play a more active role in the definition of long-term development cooperation instruments to contribute to peace, security and human rights in the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because many of the problems in nigeria are caused by sluggish economic development and decades of tension between indigenous groups, who have been competing with hausa-speaking migrants and settlers from the muslim north of nigeria for control of their fertile farmland. peaceful conflict resolution requires respect for human rights, access to justice, the abolition of impunity, and fair access to resources and income distribution in oil-rich nigeria. in its resolution, parliament strongly condemns the recent outbreaks of violence, in particular the attacks by the islamist terrorist sect boko haram, and the tragic loss of life in the affected regions of nigeria, and expresses its condolences to the families of the victims and the injured. parliament therefore calls on the nigerian government to put an end to the violence as soon as possible and to ensure the safety and security of the country's population and respect for human rights. calls on the nigerian president to promote interreligious and interfaith dialogue and to promote freedom of thought, conscience and religion; the nigerian government should further analyse the root causes of the conflict, including social, economic and ethnic tensions, and avoid generalising and oversimplifying purely religious explanations that will not provide a basis for a long-term and sustainable solution to the problems of the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in nigeria, as freedom of religion, belief, conscience and thought are fundamental and universal values and also essential components of democracy. the european union has repeatedly expressed its commitment to the protection of freedom of religion, belief, conscience and thought and has stressed the duty of governments to ensure these freedoms worldwide. many of nigeria's problems stem from sluggish economic development and decades of tension between indigenous groups vying for control of fertile farmland and hausa-speaking migrants and newcomers from the muslim north of nigeria. peaceful conflict resolution requires respect for human rights, access to justice, the abolition of impunity, and fair access to resources and income distribution in oil-rich nigeria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 6th world water forum. water is becoming ever more precious and scarce. therefore we need to handle it with more care and to find ways at both european and international levels of how to deal with our water resources sustainably. climate change and population growth amplify the problems. this is why the eu must develop a strategic and long-term water policy in close cooperation with the international community. the health and living conditions of billions of people depend on water. i support the statement in the resolution that water is a shared resource of humankind and, therefore, should not be a source of profit and that access to water should constitute a fundamental and universal right. in this regard the commission and member states have to reinforce their commitment to achieve the united nations millennium development goals in the field of water and sanitation.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. population growth, deforestation, biological and chemical pollution and climate change threaten the security and reliability of water supplies. to date, over 800 million people have access to unsafe drinking water, and poor hygiene kills more than two and a half million children each year in the past, the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission and the council to take concrete action to ensure access to safe drinking water and sanitation for the most deprived persons, but these repeated calls have not been heeded. i agree with the need to step up international efforts and to adopt an agreement and concrete commitments on global water management at the forthcoming rio de janeiro conference. it is also essential to introduce the latest technologies and to support investment in research and development to ensure the most efficient use of water resources.
in writing. − i voted for this european parliament resolution because technological innovation can increase the efficiency and sustainability of water resources, and in particular can be used for the benefit of developing countries. water is a common resource for all of humanity, and should not be used as a source of profit. access to water should be a fundamental and universal right. the united nations recognises the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation, as enshrined in the right to an adequate standard of living, and it is therefore necessary to make all necessary efforts to ensure that the poorest have access to water by 2015. water use targets should be aligned to meet water demand and ensure access to water and its quality, in particular in developing countries. water is particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change, which may lead to a reduction in the quantity and quality of available water, in particular drinking water, and to an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and droughts. it is therefore essential to develop risk prevention, mitigation and response strategies to prevent water-related extreme events.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the 6th world water forum, to be held in marseille from 12 to 17 march 2012, given that almost half of the population in developing countries lack sanitation, more than 800 million people still use unsafe drinking water sources and more than 2.5 million children die each year from lack of access to safe water and sanitation, as well as from poor hygiene. water management has a direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture and food security, and effective water management is a key element in poverty reduction. technological innovation could increase the efficiency and sustainability of water resources and in particular benefit developing countries. the world water forum, held every three years, provides a unique opportunity for water sector representatives, policy-makers and decision-makers from all regions of the world to meet, discuss and find solutions to water security.
in writing. water is the basis of life, the most abundant natural resource on our planet. sadly, many people on earth still lack a complete supply of safe drinking water. on the other hand, the seas that border the eu (i am thinking in particular of the baltic sea) are also becoming increasingly polluted. i therefore support the provisions that all measures aimed at the conservation and improvement of water resources (of all types) should be given the utmost attention. they should be integrated as widely as possible into other eu policies (in particular agriculture).
in writing. – serbia’s reform progress is to be welcomed and further encouraged, especially in light of the upcoming elections in serbia. much still needs to be done to implement the obligations and agreements undertaken by serbia – especially as regards improving the business environment. the recent experiences of foreign investors in serbia are very discouraging. winners of privatisation tenders invested tens of millions, but were challenged by public institutions and forced to leave. dubious decisions by serbian institutions are now being contested internationally. the commission must monitor very closely the progress committed to in december 2011 and february 2012 and report back at the end of this year. another issue is reconciliation with the communist past. this process is moving forward in many former communist block countries, but not in serbia. serbia was the first country in the region to adopt its lustration law, but later annulled it as infringing the constitution. i cannot see how truth and justice can infringe the constitution of a democratic state? i call on serbia to adopt the necessary legislation and open up its communist-times archives to its citizens as well as to other countries without further delay.
i think the success of the european union depends not only on economic things but also on how we know each other. i'm talking about understanding the historical experience. sixty-three years ago, on march 25-28, the soviet occupiers carried out a carefully planned mass slaughter in lithuania, latvia, and estonia. in a matter of days, some 95,000 people from the three baltic states were sent to siberia in cattle cars. 75% of them are women and children. in 1949, as europe was rebuilding from the wounds of world war ii, another part of europe was experiencing atrocities, mass beatings, persecutions, and imprisonments. this was to destroy those people who were brave enough to fight the system of terror that was the soviet union. i am glad that we have had the opportunity to mention this event in the european parliament today and i think it is very important to maintain the programmes which fund programmes of historical mutual recognition.
for the efd group the rising cost of food and the cost of living are driving more and more people to seek help. the food aid programme for 2012 is allocated eur 113 million. this is lower than the previous allocation of eur 500 million. the implementation of this programme has increased the access to food for the poorest people in the union. an estimated 43 million people in the european union are at risk of food shortages. that means they can't get enough to eat every other day. the importance and special significance of this programme is recognised by many charitable organisations, ngos and organisations across the eu. so we have to find a way to continue this program without cutting funding. i should also point out that social tensions are particularly high in lithuania, as a result of the sharp rise in food and heating prices. the reduction in funding for this programme will further worsen the situation of the population living in poverty and of vulnerable families.
in writing. people in the european union still face obstacles to actively exercising their rights as eu citizens. for example, recent developments in the creation of websites discriminating against workers from central and eastern european countries show that the rights of citizens of the european union are still under threat. we must therefore protect the right of citizens to move and work freely, because the free movement of workers is one of the fundamental values of the european union and all workers must have equal rights and these must be respected in all eu countries. secondly, persons with disabilities in the european union face numerous physical and social barriers on a daily basis which prevent them from enjoying their rights, such as the normal use of public buildings, public services, free movement and access to public transport, infrastructure, information technology and other facilities and services. unfortunately, the biggest obstacle to the integration of disabled people into society is high unemployment, and disabled unemployment is due to insufficient preparation for the labour market. the member states and the commission must therefore, in line with the european disability strategy (2010-2020), take the most active action possible to remove barriers to mobility and accessibility for people with disabilities, which would solve many other problems social exclusion, discrimination, unemployment and others. i also call on the member states to make the most of the 2013 european year of citizens and to make people more aware of the rights that eu citizenship gives them.
in writing the rights of citizens of the european union are of the highest standard in terms of human protection against abuse of power. the principle of justice is strongly emphasised as the basis for the interaction between the state and the citizen. however, there are still countries in the european union which do not respect this principle, and justice has nothing to do with equality before the law. this includes disregard for property rights, in particular land rights in lithuania, where the process of reprivatisation of land seized during the soviet era is underway. very often land is not returned to its rightful owners despite the documents proving the ownership. and the land is going to people who have never owned it before. this leads to financial and corrupt abuses and, above all, violates the sacred right to property. in this way, the state applies laws to its citizens in an unequal and selective way, violating people's rights. another example concerns the high-profile paedophilia scandal in lithuania, which has involved high-ranking judicial officials, including judges. the court, the police and the guardians are doing everything to take away the child's guardian, who is both the victim and the main witness of this incident. it's all happening in an atmosphere of fear and a show of force by the state's institutions. it seems that the purpose of this is to intimidate witnesses, not to disrupt an organized pedophile ring. this is an example of a violation of citizens' rights, which shows that there are equals and peers in such situations. citizens' rights must be equal for everyone, regardless of where a person lives or of his social status.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the continued participation of the european union in the international rubber study group (irg). recently, serious doubts have been raised about the future of the icc as important countries such as the united states, thailand and malaysia have left the organisation. however, the international rubber study group is an intergovernmental organisation whose main function is to provide a forum for discussion on the production, supply and consumption of rubber by all the participating countries. today, it is the only inclusive platform bringing together countries that produce and use rubber, and despite its shortcomings, it is still the most appropriate organisation to increase transparency, and one of the organisation's key objectives is to ensure that rubber is affordable on the global market and can be obtained under fair and predictable conditions. the european union is the second largest consumer of natural rubber in the world, with russia and japan also members of this organisation.
in writing. - i have voted in favour of this document as parliament gives its consent to the draft council decision on the establishment, on behalf of the european union, of the amended statutes and rules of procedure of the international rubber study group. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the goa has been able to achieve the objectives of the guidelines. moreover, despite its shortcomings, the cccme is still the most appropriate organisation to increase the transparency that is lacking in the real market and the organisation that is desperately needed to ensure that rubber is available and affordable on fair, predictable terms worldwide. the revision of the statutes and rules of procedure of the gsc could also be an important step towards the revival of the group as a key forum for various stakeholders. every effort should be made to increase the membership of the group, in particular by including the main rubber producing and consuming countries. a strong membership base remains a prerequisite for the long-term viability and effectiveness of the cwc as an authoritative organisation. this will undoubtedly have an impact on the development of greater industrial sustainability and quality standards, as well as on alternative rubber.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the operation and application of the rights of persons travelling by air. the resolution is a response to the commission's recent communication on a regulation laying down common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long-term delay of flights. i agree with the rapporteur that information on passenger rights should be provided in a simple, appropriate and comprehensible manner at all the main stages of the journey. i believe that airports must have qualified staff who can be contacted and who can make immediate decisions on the provision of assistance, the refund of the ticket, the offer of a different route and other matters arising from the cancellation of a flight. in the event of a delay, passengers should be provided with timely information on the reasons for the delay or cancellation of the flight, the expected duration of the delay and, where possible, other travel options and other modes of transport. attention should also be paid to the three options available to the passenger, which are his fundamental rights: to recover the money paid for the ticket, to change the route and to reserve seats on other flights. i think that the european parliament has adopted this resolution at the right time, as the commission intends to review the legislation in this area next year. i urge the commission to take this resolution into account in future reviews of the package travel directive and the airport package.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of improving the rights of air passengers. air transport is the main means of transport for people today, and passenger traffic at airports is only increasing. ensuring that the fundamental rights of passengers are properly enforced is therefore of paramount importance in order to prevent possible abuses by airlines. the report adopted today by the european parliament proposes that in future passengers should be fully insured in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of an airline and that price transparency should be ensured. it is also proposed that in future passengers will be entitled to have their data changed free of charge if they make a mistake when buying a ticket. finally, the communication calls for passengers to be given access to the passenger data record held by the air carrier and subsequently used by the security services of different countries for counter-terrorism purposes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to increase the legal certainty of the regulations, to clarify them better and to ensure their uniform application throughout the eu. this report takes a broader view of air passengers' rights, including a number of relevant proposals, such as better protecting the rights of air travellers, providing greater clarity and certainty to passengers about their rights and increasing the liability of airlines. i agree with the need to fully insure passengers against the bankruptcy or insolvency of airlines and to effectively implement and enforce the existing legislation on price transparency in order to ensure that the prices published on airlines' websites reflect the final price fairly.
in writing. − we recently endorsed the right of disabled people to travel by bus or waterway. the natural next step is to ensure similar rights for air travel. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's inclusion in his report of provisions indicating the need to ensure adequate travel conditions for disabled persons, in particular with regard to accompanying persons, assistive devices, access to information and airport infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european refugee fund 2008-2013 at second reading. i support the proposal to set up a list of priority refugees (independently of annual priorities with respect to geographic regions and nationalities): children and women, unaccompanied minors, persons with serious medical needs, survivors of violence and torture etc. we, members of the european parliament, endorsed the idea that in order to encourage more member states to take part in resettlement activity, additional financial support should be given to those participating in the resettlement programme for the first time. i support the proposal that the fixed amount for each resettled person shall be eur 6 000 in the first calendar year, eur 5 000 in the second and eur 4 000 in subsequent years – the funding to be invested in the development of a sustainable resettlement programme. i urge the council to continue the process of adoption of this important legal act.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal as the purpose of this document is to ensure that the eu's resettlement actions have a greater impact in terms of providing protection for refugees, as well as to maximise the strategic impact of resettlement by making it more targeted to help those who need it most to move, and to set regular resettlement priorities at eu level. the proposal aims to amend the decision establishing the european refugee fund, taking into account the establishment of an eu general programme for the resettlement of refugees. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the detailed rules for the application of this decision. member states will receive additional financial support for each person to be relocated in line with these priorities.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because these decisions are taken to reduce the risk of dual-use items being used for military purposes and/or distribution programmes. in order to ensure the most effective implementation of such controls, parties to international export control regimes bring together the main suppliers of dual-use items. by agreeing to control trade in specific goods, they effectively seek to reduce the risk of proliferation, while ensuring that no obstacles to legitimate trade are created.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report with its proposal to postpone until 30 april 2014 the deadline for transposition of directive 2004/40/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 29 april 2004 on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). there are many concerns about implementing the directive, especially that exposure limit values would place disproportionate limitations on the use and development of medical magnetic resonance imaging (mri) applications, considered today to be a vital tool for the diagnosis and treatment of a number of diseases. given the complexity of the matter, the commission proposed extending the deadline for transposition of directive 2004/40/ec. however, i agree with the rapporteur that there should be an extension of 18 months, rather than 24 months as proposed by the commission.
in writing. − the proposal aims to postpone the transposition of directive 2004/40/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 29 april 2004 on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the risks to workers from physical agents (electromagnetic fields) (eighteenth individual directive within the meaning of article 16 (1) of directive 89/391/eec) until 30 april 2014.
in writing. − electromagnetic fields pose a significant risk to workers exposed to these physical agents. however, the medical sector and the procedures used in it, in particular magnetic resonance imaging, require, as practice shows, different legal regulation. the reservations in the medical sector have not yet been agreed, and i therefore agree that the application of the current regulation should be postponed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on regulation (ec) no 2073/2004 laying down a legal framework for administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties. these provisions need to be revised to take into account the introduction of the computerised excise movement and control system (emcs). emcs has been introduced on the basis of decision no 1152/2003/ec of the european parliament and of the council on computerising the movement and surveillance of excisable products. i agree with the rapporteur’s suggestion that the commission establish a new vat and excise duties forum, similar to the joint transfer pricing forum, within which companies can address issues relating to corporate vat and disputes between member states. processing of personal data relating to offences, criminal convictions or security measures is to be carried out in accordance with directive 95/46/ec or regulation (ec) no 45/2001.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties, as the establishment of a european fiscal union should ensure a comprehensive, rapid, efficient, convenient and, if possible, automatic exchange of information between member states in order to better combat tax evasion. the commission proposes to adopt a new regulation on administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties, which will replace the current regulation. purpose to harmonise legislation in this area with the possibilities offered by the development of the electronic movement control system (emcs) for excisable goods and to provide a more clearly defined legal framework to replace the current manual and semi-automatic procedures. the scope of the regulation will be extended to include administrative cooperation to ensure the enforcement of all excise legislation, not just the proper assessment of excise duties. in addition, the aim is to clarify the rights and obligations of the member states and the commission in this area, both in terms of the scope of the emcs and in a more general manner. the legislation facilitates administrative simplification by providing for common measures that are easy to interpret and apply. public authorities will be able to use common tools and documents within a predefined organisational framework. this package of measures will simplify european cross-border administrative cooperation.
in writing. − we are an eu institution elected by the citizens of the european union. i therefore fully support the view expressed in this report that, as a matter of responsibility to the electorate, we must set an example of thrift in this difficult economic period. although constitutionally we may not be able to avoid the constant travel to strasbourg, which is a drain on us and the eu budget, i agree that other ways of avoiding such travel must be found. at the same time, i welcome the european parliament's understanding of the need to continue the project of the house of european history. while i agree with the need for budgetary discipline, i would nevertheless urge that this project be implemented as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers affected by major structural changes in the world trade system. the commission has adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for spain in order to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. the spanish application concerns 1 138 redundancies (all of which are covered by the aid) in 513 enterprises active in the construction sector in the valencia region. one of the criteria used by the commission in its assessment was the link between the exemptions and the major structural changes in the world trade system and the financial crisis. in view of this criterion, the spanish authorities argued that the construction sector had been severely affected by the crisis. loans to the construction sector and to individuals have been severely reduced, and the decline in consumer confidence and cash shortages have reduced demand for new homes. according to the spanish authorities, the employment situation in the affected area is particularly vulnerable due to the impact of the crisis on the traditional sectors, i.e. the textile sector or the ceramic and stone grinding, working and finishing sectors related to construction, as these sectors are of vital importance to the region's economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because after the lisbon treaty parliament and the council have equal powers in the ordinary legislative procedure and in the budget procedure and there is no longer a reason to continue to include council question time in its present form in the agenda. however, i agree with the rapporteur’s position and proposed amendments, that it would be sensible to retain the option of putting questions to the council – during a specific question hour – on matters relating to responsibilities other than those linked to the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the rules of procedure to take account of the changes in the european parliament's relations with the institutions representing national governments following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, since, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament has become one of the legislators of the european union and, under the ordinary legislative and budgetary procedure, it has the same powers as the council. in view of the new institutional balance, it is considered that the current agenda for the council, i.e. the agenda for each session, should no longer be maintained. on the other hand, it is appropriate, according to the conference of presidents, to maintain the possibility of holding question hours not only for the president of the commission but also for the vice-presidents of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and the president of the eurogroup. the abolition of question time for the council as it has been until now would take account of the change in the institutional balance indicated by the conference of presidents. however, for the reasons set out above, it seems useful to maintain the possibility of putting questions to the council by organising a separate question hour to discuss matters falling within its competence, outside its legislative and budgetary functions.
in writing. - i voted yes. the european parliament draws attention to the deteriorating situation in belarus. the dictator was pleased that the sanctions had apparently touched a sensitive area of the regime, and all his subsequent actions demonstrate that 'europe is not indicated'. the eu does not refer to anyone or buy from any country. there may be others in other parts of the world. lukashenko is not acting as a head of state, but as a landlord, for whom belarus is his own backyard, and i do what i want. belarusians are not pigs and pigs of the kolkhoz, but proud people who want to live with dignity in an independent, prosperous european country. i would like to stress that in this situation it is necessary to continue eu support for the belarusian language of free thought in exile european humanitarian university in vilnius. it would also be necessary to consider all possible options, as it would be possible, without coordinating with the fluctuation of the dictator's mood, to unilaterally reduce the cost of schengen visas for belarusian citizens to a minimum.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the idea of establishing a european democracy fund (edf) whose main function would be to support democratic movements in europe's neighbouring regions, thus ensuring long-term stability at the eu's borders. recent events in the arab spring and the eastern neighbourhood have once again demonstrated the need for the eu to deepen strategic cooperation with authoritarian but democratically-minded countries in order to support their transition to democracy as smoothly as possible. however, in its report, the european parliament, while endorsing the council's proposal to establish a european democracy fund, called on the council to ensure that, when establishing the fund, the edf promotes a more strategic political approach to the eu's contribution to democracy support, and to define a clear edf mission and values in order to ensure clear criteria for the selection of beneficiaries, avoid duplication of functions with other funds and ensure close coordination between all funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report with a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the possible establishment of a european democracy fund (edf). the events of the arab spring have shown that the eu must act with urgency in cooperation with countries seeking democratic reforms. the establishment of a european democracy fund is one of the most realistic ways for the eu to respond to the challenges of democratisation in neighbouring countries and beyond, and i therefore support the proposal to set up this fund. a semi-autonomous body would be established, which could support the development of democracy worldwide without bureaucracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament welcomes the progress serbia has made in implementing reforms in the country. the ep welcomes the fact that serbian citizens have been able to travel visa-free within the schengen area since december 2009, and strongly supports this. it also fully supports this extension of the visa-free regime, but is concerned about the increase in the number of asylum seekers in some member states of the european union. the european parliament welcomes the progress made in improving child protection and in establishing a strong legal framework and strategies to increase respect for children's rights and to reform the child welfare system. however, there is still concern about the slow implementation of adopted legislation, especially in relation to disabled children, as many of them are still not integrated into society. the increase in violence among young people is a particular concern and the authorities should step up their efforts to implement preventive measures and take all necessary measures to eliminate violence in schools.
in writing. − i supported the proposal on serbia's european integration process because the conclusions drawn up after the thessaloniki european council in june 2003 clearly promised the western balkan countries that they could join the european union once they met the criteria set, and this promise was reiterated in the renewed enlargement consensus. progress on the ratification of the stabilisation and association agreement is assessed and the remaining eu member states are encouraged to complete the ratification procedures without delay. the council recommends that serbia be granted candidate status and expects this decision to be approved. the council further concluded that serbia has continued to fulfil its commitments in the implementation of the agreements adopted during the belgrade-pristina dialogue, is implementing integrated border management (ibm), is pursuing an agreement on regional cooperation and has actively cooperated with eulex and kfor in order to enable them to exercise their assigned mandates.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution supporting the positive efforts made by the serbian government in its reforms, but also noting many areas where progress is still needed. the chosen eu path must become an irreversible but also credible process. serbia has to understand that having received eu candidate status it cannot take it for granted, and that implementation of the commitments rather than promises will matter. the eu integration process is based on real progress and there will be no free gifts for any candidate country. the communist heritage must be faced. it lies at the root of many current socioeconomic problems. it must be dealt with to allow true reconciliation within society and among the countries in the region. in regard to those cases where serbia’s positions in different international fora challenge eu common positions and, furthermore, may be regarded as directed against individual eu member states, i call on the commission and the eeas to send a clear message to the candidate country that the eu perspective will depend strongly on its alignment with eu positions and respect for the same values in international politics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are of crucial importance for the process of european integration and for ensuring security and stability in the region. the european parliament called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the environment, and on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the environment, which was adopted in december 2005. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from the threat of violence and that the eu's citizens are protected from the threat of violence. it also calls for the protection of journalists, the establishment of minimum rights for their work and the provision of working conditions. the ep calls for measures to ensure transparency in media ownership and the financial and editorial independence of the public broadcaster.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal on the european integration process for kosovo, given that all the western balkan countries were promised membership of the european union at the thessaloniki european council of 19 and 20 june 2003 and that this promise was reiterated at the western balkans summit in sarajevo. however, the issue of the return of refugees and internally displaced persons remains unresolved in kosovo. welcomes the efforts of the kosovo authorities to support returnees and calls for further efforts at central and local government levels to ensure their social and economic integration, with particular attention to returnees of serbian, roma, ashkali and egyptian nationalities. the kosovo authorities also need to improve the quality and transparency of the legislative process in order to create a robust legal system for kosovo and to increase confidence in the legal system. the council of the european union and the commission should start negotiations with kosovo as soon as possible on a trade agreement, which is crucial for the country's development and for successfully fighting unemployment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the european parliament's position on turkey's progress towards european union membership. in its report, while stressing the economic and political importance of closer relations between turkey and the eu and its importance for stability, democracy and security in the region, parliament stresses that turkey is making too little progress and has not implemented the provisions of the ec-turkey association agreement and its additional protocol in general over the past six years. the report therefore stresses that turkey needs to make greater efforts to resolve entrenched bilateral issues, including outstanding legal obligations and disputes over land, sea and air borders with its immediate neighbours, including the eu member states, in its own interest and in order to ensure greater stability and to promote good neighbourly relations and constructive political and economic partnership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2011 progress report on turkey, because the european union, its member states and turkey are interdependent. the european union attaches importance to turkey's economic and growth potential and its important role in ensuring regional stability and energy security. this interdependence is complemented by the important potential interaction between the union's and turkey's foreign and security policies and neighbourhood policies, which is beneficial and provides greater leverage for both parties. however, this interdependence can only be successful if it is based on mutual commitment, strategic dialogue and effective cooperation, the success of the reform process and the implementation of these reforms, and good relations between turkey and the neighbouring eu member states. the commission should develop a new positive agenda covering a range of areas of common interest, aiming at a new dynamic in eu-turkey relations, with tangible results and benefits for both parties, and providing for the possibility for the eu to remain the benchmark for further reforms in turkey and to help turkey meet the accession criteria.
in writing. − i am in favor of the eu enlargement policy and the continuation of turkey’s eu accession negotiations. we need to send a positive and encouraging message to turkey, which remains strongly committed to the eu integration process. by delaying the opening of the 15th negotiation chapter ‘energy’ we risk losing the momentum gained in the eu-turkey’s intensified dialogue on energy. we should further strengthen and broaden the eu-turkey’s foreign policy dialogue, encourage closer economic relations, further step up cooperation on migration management and border controls, which could pave the way for visa liberalisation with turkey. a positive agenda initiated by the commission in 2012 could give new impetus and compliment the accession negotiations by creating an additional framework for dialogue at expert level. the implementation of the ankara protocol on the turkish side is a crucial step for the successful continuation of negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the european parliament's position on montenegro's progress towards eu membership. in its report, parliament welcomes the efforts made by montenegro to implement democratic reforms and welcomes the commission's proposal to open accession negotiations in 2012. the communication notes that the support of the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) in montenegro is being properly implemented and that the country has achieved good results in the key priorities of preparing for eu membership. however, parliament recommends that more efforts be made to ensure a more transparent legislative process, greater public participation in the preparation of new legislation, a strengthening of parliament's administrative capacity and a more frequent and effective use of the instrument of consultation and control meetings. parliament called for particular attention to be given to investigating alleged threats and physical violence against journalists and to responding to the increasing number of reports of restrictions on media freedom.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2011 progress report on montenegro, as eu member states aim to open accession negotiations with montenegro in june 2012. political consensus on eu issues remains important in montenegro and the objective of promoting eu and nato membership is a key foreign policy issue. reforms require strong political will and a fundamental commitment to tackle the challenges ahead of the accession process. montenegro has made significant progress in achieving the seven priority objectives set by the commission in 2010, namely improving the functioning of the parliamentary and electoral system, professionalism of the public administration, independence of the judiciary, fight against corruption, fight against organised crime, guaranteeing media freedom and cooperation with civil society. montenegro has also implemented the trade-related provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement with the eu. however, montenegro needs to continue to pursue reforms by effectively implementing the government's action plan on key priorities, promoting recovery from the economic crisis, while ensuring adequate control of public expenditure and public debt, which, according to 2011 data, is higher than in the previous year. montenegro must also maintain fiscal stability and strengthen and develop the administrative and institutional capacity necessary to assume the obligations of eu membership in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it contains the european parliament's assessment of the commission's green paper on the corporate governance framework. in its report, parliament stresses the need for a more transparent, stable, reliable and accountable business sector in the eu, with better corporate governance embedded in it. regrets, therefore, that the commission does not address in its green paper important corporate governance issues such as board decision-making, directors' liability, directors' independence, conflicts of interest or stakeholder involvement; parliament also stresses that accountability and transparency for its employees, shareholders and, where appropriate, other stakeholders are essential conditions for a well-managed company. i agree with the position expressed by parliament that the business sector should take account of social, ethical and environmental concerns, as well as to achieve better economic performance and to promote job creation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the current european corporate governance framework, as it is important to create a more transparent, stable and accountable corporate sector in the european union, with better corporate governance embedded in it. a review of the eu's corporate governance framework is necessary to avoid excessive bureaucratic burdens and to increase the competitiveness of eu enterprises. the review of the eu corporate governance system needs to take into account the rights and responsibilities of the relevant company management bodies under national law, in particular the differences between the monistic and dualist systems. it is also necessary to carry out an independent audit and to establish rules that take account of the different cultures of the companies. the oecd definition of corporate governance, which is the totality of the relationship between the management, the board, the shareholders and other stakeholders of the company, as defined in 2004, should be further promoted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2010 eib annual report. i support the bank’s approach of placing importance on measuring the results not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of quality and the fact that it is crucial to establish a clear link between inputs and results in order to assess the effectiveness of the system. i welcome the rapporteur’s recommendation to the eib to focus more on granting eu support to eu smes and efforts for transparency and on better accountability for the ‘global loans’ programme. i agree that the eib group should continue reporting annually to parliament on its financing activities. i support the cooperation between the eib and the commission in developing innovative financial instruments to promote the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and climate action needs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which gives a favourable assessment of the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank (eib). the european parliament endorses the bank's approach to supporting eu activities and calls on the eib to continue its activities in support of european economic development, promoting growth and employment and promoting social and territorial cohesion, with a particular focus on projects targeting less developed regions. the bank's capital needs are therefore not limited to the capital needs of the bank, but are also limited to the capital needs of the bank. the eib should make the best use of its resources and instruments to respond to the current financial and economic crisis. the european parliament also welcomes the eib's support to countries in financial difficulty in cooperation with the eu structural funds, including loans to cover part of the national contribution to projects supported by those funds. in addition, cooperation between the eib and the european commission is needed to develop innovative financial instruments to support the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to implement actions to boost the economy and combat climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank (eib) as it welcomes the 2010 annual report and calls on the eib to continue its work in support of european economic development, promoting growth and employment and promoting social and territorial cohesion, with a particular focus on projects targeting less developed regions, and supports the bank's intention to focus on operations where its financing is likely to have the greatest impact on economic growth. in its financing activities in the european union, the eib focuses on six policy priorities: economic and social cohesion and convergence; the implementation of the knowledge economy; the development of european transport and access networks; support for smes; the protection and enhancement of the environment and the promotion of sustainable communities; and the promotion of sustainable, competitive and secure energy. this is of the utmost importance to us at this time, as the eib is one of europe's most important instruments for supporting the real economy and must therefore be encouraged to continue to develop its policies successfully on a european scale.
in writing. − i voted for this report because people in europe still face obstacles to actively exercising their rights as eu citizens. first, member states should remove obstacles to the free movement of eu citizens and take steps to advise mobile workers on employment opportunities and living and working conditions in the european union. it is also necessary to inform citizens about the risks of illegal work as well as the benefits of legal work (tax advantages, social security, right to vocational training, right to citizenship, right to housing, right to family reunification, right of children to access education and vocational training). i would like to remind you that almost 80 million people with disabilities in the european union still face often insurmountable obstacles to the various ways in which they can exercise their right to free movement as eu citizens. it is therefore necessary to encourage the eu institutions and member states to identify and remove the obstacles that prevent people with disabilities from enjoying all the rights of eu citizens. member states also have to combat poverty and exclusion of people with disabilities, as the number of disabled people among the poor is the highest.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first and foremost, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr howitt, on an excellent report. i believe that reaching agreement on political and moral matters on all sides of the spectrum of the european parliament is a challenging and difficult task. the report raises the question of whether human rights have become a central issue for the eu and whether we have succeeded in mainstreaming them as a pivotal aspect of foreign policy. at the same time, the question remains as to whether human rights have become a common denominator in a political and moral consensus across the political spectrum of this house and of the european union. with regard to obvious and outrageous violations of human rights – such as killing, the death penalty, torture, violations of freedom of expression, belief and conscience, and contempt for and persecution of lgbt people – i believe that we have common ground and that we share values and attitudes. yes, i believe that the challenge of the future lies in our ability to identify and tackle less obvious, vague and elusive – not to say subtle – violations of human rights, such as selective justice, politicised trials and endemic corruption – all of which undermine any kind of fair and equal treatment of people – as well as illegitimate surveillance, abuse of psychiatry, government sponsored and state-coordinated campaigns of defamation, and slander and blackmail against dissenting individuals and human rights defenders. in any case, i believe that the rapporteur has done an excellent job within the remit given to him. i believe that the report covers an immense territory of our agreements, sensibilities and expectations, for which i wholeheartedly congratulate mr howitt.
my fellow citizens! i thank my colleagues jäätteenmäki and poręba for the great and hard work they have put into their reports. armenia and azerbaijan are countries with which we have and will have significant cooperation in various fields. this is why it is all the more important that democracy develops in the caucasus region and that we establish close trade links with these countries, as well as that energy projects such as the trans-caspian pipeline, which have been launched, continue successfully and offer particularly wide-ranging opportunities for ensuring the energy independence of the european union. unfortunately, the most difficult issue in relations between the two countries is, of course, nagorno-karabakh, which was also expressed at the euronest meeting in baku, which i also attended. this conflict is a very complex issue. it will be achieved gradually, step by step, but with strict respect for international standards, firstly territorial integrity. first, the occupation forces must be withdrawn from the occupied territories of nagorno-karabakh, the use of force must be stopped and a genuine international peacekeeping force must be established. they must ensure peace, the safe return of internally displaced persons and refugees to their homes. next, consider measures to promote mutual trust between the peoples living in the area. finally, autonomy for nagorno-karabakh within the framework of national integrity may be the most appropriate solution to ensure the development and peace of the territory in the long term. we have ample resources to... (the chairman interrupts the speaker.)
mr president, the republic of azerbaijan, after restoring itself as an independent nation in 1991 has made further significant steps towards self-determination. they have real independence from the former authority and the choice has been made for europe. in the 19th century azerbaijan became the main actor in european energy matters and now that is going to be repeated at a time when europe is concerned about its own energy independence. today’s azerbaijan needs europe to strengthen its independent european statehood. the eu needs azerbaijan for the purpose of european energy independence. there are solid grounds for mutual approaches, so let the association agreement be welcomed as the first step on a promising way. what should not be misinterpreted in our document is the notion that negotiations on agreements should be linked to credible commitments to substantial progress etc., which means that, if one actor is blocking that progress, all positive efforts .... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the eastern partnership is a good instrument for strengthening relations with countries with european aspirations. armenia is a good example of this. with a history that dates back to antiquity, it is one of the most advanced centers of european civilization and culture. the association agreement between the european union and armenia therefore seems to be a natural process that strengthens bilateral relations. the region's complex and often tragic history should not affect the vision of cooperation for the future. instead of criticism often based on misunderstanding of the caucasus' ethno-historical interdependence, the eu should focus on multi-dimensional assistance to armenia so that the country can implement european standards allowing it to associate with the eu in the foreseeable future. the appropriate way to achieve this will be to increase armenia's active participation in multilateral parliamentary cooperation within the euronest assembly. this is a good example of the commitment to european values and principles that is unanimously recognised by the majority of the armenian society. the announcement by the armenian authorities of democratic, transparent and free elections to be held in may this year should be seen as a gesture of goodwill and an expression of the country's european ambitions. the union institutions should be tasked with reinforcing this conviction and making sense of the decisions and challenges that are moving armenia closer to its goal of returning to the european family.
i thank the rapporteurs and support this part of the report which aims to make clarifications to eu legislation in the field of social protection, as they are inevitably changing member states' practices and their legislation. and i certainly particularly support the necessary changes to the content of european union legislation that are necessary to ensure the effective and full implementation of the right to free movement of workers for our citizens. the situation where self-employed workers work in a country where they are entitled to unemployment benefits and lose that right only by moving to another country whose legislation does not provide for such benefits is unacceptable in a european union which promotes the free movement of workers. the european court of justice has also confirmed in its case law that persons who become unemployed in one member state are entitled to receive the unemployment benefit to which they are entitled when they move to another member state to seek employment there. in particular, entitlement to social benefits cannot be restricted where those benefits consist of social security contributions paid by the former self-employed person himself.
king of the hashemite kingdom of jordan. − mr president, distinguished members of the european parliament, thank you all for your warm welcome. the ties between jordan and europe are anchored in rock. it is more than our mutual interest in the prosperity and security of our multi-regional neighbourhood. it is our shared belief in the kind of neighbourhood it should be – the kind of neighbourhood our people deserve, rich in human dignity and freedom, powered by opportunity and progress, and secured by peace. it is to talk about our neighbourhood and future that i join you today. my friends, a long spring is unfolding in the arab world. it will not be over in a season, not even in a year. our societies are facing the challenge of moving from protests to programmes, from criticism to national strategies. different countries will take different paths. in some countries debate and consensus are in the air. elsewhere, we are seeing the winds of division and reaction, bringing instability, violence and a region-wide cost. there are outside actors that seek to take advantage of discord. the risks and uncertainties are real. but i speak for millions when i say the arab world is awake, and positive challenge is on the move. the signs were already there for those who wanted to see them. for a decade or more, people across the region have been raising questions, nurturing aspirations, seeking meaningful reform and empowering civil society, especially women and our digitally-connected, globally-aware youth. events added to the urgency. global crises in finance, food and energy seriously hurt our economies. arab families who sacrificed to educate their children have seen their sons and daughters leave school, prepared for jobs that simply are not there. today, my region faces the highest youth unemployment of any region. some have called it a ‘generation in waiting’. it is 100 million strong, the largest youth cohort in our history. i know that youth concerns are important here in europe as well. our regions have different demographics, but in one statistic they are the same: today’s young people are 100% of our future and we cannot afford to let a single young citizen wait in vain. this reality drives jordan’s approach to the arab spring. we have embraced it as an opportunity to push past road blocks that have slowed reform in the past. and last year we took immediate steps to engage in a national dialogue to build consensus on concrete actions. an early focus has been the constitution, the foundation of our political system. last september, after recommendations by a national committee, one third of the entire document was amended: new constitutional provisions, wider representation, strengthened political parties, protection of civil rights and freedoms, an enhanced separation of powers. other milestones include new laws on political parties and municipal and national elections as well as legislation for the new constitutional court and independent elections commission, and our next tests will be municipal and parliamentary elections. as guarantor of the political reform process, i have urged both government and parliament to keep to the agreed timeline and finalise the remaining legislation as quickly as possible, without sacrificing the inclusive nature of our process. only we, all jordanians, can build jordan’s future, and we must do so in such a way that our country remains a secure, safe haven in spite of a region becoming more turbulent around us, in spite of economic threats, in spite of neighbouring crises. this path demands consensus-based reform, based on structural, comprehensive change – political, legal, economic and social – respecting the rights and freedoms of all our citizens. in the process jordan can set a regional model of peaceful political evolution and democratisation. i am confident that 2012 will be a year of key political reform in jordan. among the most important steps is building the robust political party life that parliamentary government requires. we know that it is not one election but the next and the next and all those that follow which show that a system is working. we greatly value the eu’s recognition of our reform path. just two months ago the new eu-jordan task force met in amman to discuss key programmes which will support our reform priorities: democratic institutions, civil society, job creation, local economic development, human assistance and more. next month marks ten years since our association agreement went into force, opening markets and job opportunities on both sides. i hope these opportunities, now strengthened by our advanced status partnership, will further blossom in the years ahead. jordan has pursued its domestic goals despite regional conflict but, my friends, peace must come if our region is to thrive and be secure. we cannot afford one more generation in waiting for a palestinian state. (applause) ten years ago the arab states spoke in a united voice on behalf of a just peace. we made the decision to look forward, not back; to seek agreement and to offer acceptance. the arab peace initiative has been recognised by every major friend of peace in the world, including the eu and other members of the quartet. we need israel to engage. the arab peace initiative is based on the only possible solution: two states, side by side, in dignity and self-determination – a sovereign, viable and independent palestine on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital … (applause)and collective peace and security guarantees for israel … (applause)and a final settlement in accordance with un resolutions, and the agreed resolution of all final status issues. this initiative went even beyond offering israel peace and normal relations with all its arab neighbours. the entire muslim world endorsed it. what has been on the table for the past ten years is a 57-state solution. some political elements point to the change in the arab world and tell the israeli people that negotiations can wait. there is no time to wait. the arab spring is rooted in a profound call for human respect. no affront is felt more deeply than the israeli occupation. the longer palestinian suffering endures, the longer settlement-building continues, the greater the frustrations, dangers and unknowns. if we cross the line where the two-state solution is no longer possible, israel will be further than ever from real security and it would take decades, even generations, for peace to regain the initiative. jordan sees an effective peace process as a moral duty and a strategic interest, and we continue to pursue results. this year in amman we succeeded in getting negotiators back to the table several times. we would not have been able to do so without the magnificent work of european diplomacy, energising contacts, mobilising support, keeping up the pressure for peace and, most important, keeping hope alive. indeed over the past two years the european union has been an invaluable friend to those on both sides working for peace in the middle east. the exploratory talks in amman were baby steps, giving the parties an opportunity to resume bilateral contacts. now the process needs a quantum leap forward – and eu partnership is vital. the eu has taken a principled stand for a just, two-state solution, and against the settlement-building that is obstructing progress. you understand the global risks of continued conflict and the global benefits of peace. you have tremendous credibility for your experience in building democratic institutions, security and trust. i hope you can bring all this to bear in the days ahead. my friends, many peoples, one neighbourhood – and one future. this is the challenge for europe and the middle east, and it is our strength. together we face immense issues – economic, political, peace. the solutions are complex and the path forward difficult. but together we have the will and the wisdom to reach the goals we seek. and together we can succeed. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
madam president, to avoid any equivocal misunderstanding, i propose inserting one word in the sentence on the withdrawal of armed forces from around nagorno-karabakh. that is to insert after ‘surrounding nagorno-karabakh’ the clarifying point ‘at first’. please do not refuse transparency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. member states frequently amend national social security legislation, leading to inconsistent references to eu legislation coordinating social security systems and legal uncertainty for stakeholders. i have endorsed the updating of regulations (ec) no 883/2004 and (ec) no 987/2009 on the coordination of social security systems, by incorporating amendments to national legislation and the latest case law of the court of justice of the european union (cjeu).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it aims to make adjustments to eu legislation in the field of social protection, i.e. to harmonise and refine concepts and definitions. this should bring more clarity and certainty. i also agree with the provision that persons who become unemployed in one member state are entitled to continue to receive the unemployment benefit to which they are entitled when they move to another member state.
in writing. by voting in favour of this resolution, i support the importance of ensuring adequate coordination at european union level of national social security systems. it reflects developments in the legal situation at national level and in cross-border mobility. i also think that this resolution is important because it also regulates the rights of selfemployed persons who have been insured in the member state in which they last worked, and the rights of seafarers, by recognising the 'head office' as the 'base of employment'.
in writing. − one of the eu's operating principles is the free movement of persons. this right is also inseparable from the social guarantees linked to the employment relationship or arising from the termination of that relationship. therefore, while supporting this report, which provides for social security in cases involving more than one member state, i would also like to point out that in the future we will inevitably have to face the need to fundamentally revise the current social security model as a result of the ageing of the eu.
in writing. − i support this resolution as it will ensure that there is adequate coordination of national social protection systems at eu level. it should be noted that the envisaged common rules will only regulate those aspects of national legislation which may have a negative impact on persons who have exercised their right to free movement of workers and who are confronted with differences in the social security systems of several member states. cooperation and, where appropriate, joint action by member states would help to solve common problems more effectively. it will also make eu law more effective, facilitate the coordination of social protection systems in the member states and contribute to the protection of eu citizens who migrate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the harmonisation of the social protection systems of the different eu countries is essential to achieve one of the eu's main objectives: the free movement of workers. until now, it has been the case that selfemployed workers in one country pay taxes and gain entitlement to unemployment benefits, but lose this right if they leave to look for work in another eu country. this practice reveals shortcomings in the legislation of individual eu countries that should be addressed as soon as possible. i therefore support the wish expressed by the rapporteur, the european commission and the council to reach an agreement on the regulation at the first reading. the necessary legal provisions would then be put into effect in the near future.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur that we urgently need common rules to guarantee access to social benefits without harming european workers who enjoy the right of free movement. this issue is of great importance to most lithuanians. for example, i believe that self-employed lithuanians who are entitled to unemployment benefits in the country where they work could receive them when they return to lithuania. this is essential to encourage young and talented lithuanians to return home. the report also touches on a wider problem that is currently plaguing lithuania. the board of the state social insurance fund of lithuania (sodra) needs to be completely restructured immediately. as with most of the lithuanian public institutions, sodr was weakened by loss-making expenditure. this is a very serious problem, as last year sodra accounted for almost 70% of lithuania's national budget. according to media reports, 9 out of 10 sodros branches in lithuania are formally bankrupt. the analysis of the regional chapters revealed that 90% of the regions have more pensioners than workers. in lithuania's poorest regions, income is less than 40% of the amount that is due for pensions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament recommendation on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia, as the treaty aims to promote peace, stability and cooperation in south-east asia. this accession is a win-win and will increase the eu's presence and visibility in the region. the association of southeast asian nations (asean) was signed in 1976 and the member states of the european union agreed in july 2006 to open the eu accession procedures to the treaty. this recommendation by the european parliament is important because, once parliament has given its consent to the draft treaty on european union accession to the treaty on friendship and cooperation in south-east asia, the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy will be able to sign the instruments of accession of the european union to the treaty at the asean-eu ministerial meeting on 26-27 april 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia, as it seeks to promote peace, stability and cooperation in south-east asia. given that this accession is uncontested and will increase the eu's presence and visibility in the region, the committee on foreign affairs calls on the european parliament to give its consent to the decision allowing the union to accede to the treaty. the committee also supports the council's request for an urgent vote on this issue at its april 2012 session, so that the vice-president of the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy can sign the eu's accession documents to the treaty at the asean-eu ministerial meeting on 26-27 april 2012.
in writing. − i believe it is appropriate to join the treaty of friendship and cooperation in southeast asia, which aims to promote peace, stability and cooperation. the treaty shall promote economic, financial and technical cooperation with developing countries and non-developing countries. it is noted that accession to this agreement will increase the eu's presence and visibility in the south east asian region. it will also create the conditions for a more active eu engagement in the east-south asia security dialogue.
in writing. − i have endorsed the european parliament's recommendation on the proposal of the esc not to convene the convention on the protocol supplementing the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union on the concerns of the irish people regarding the treaty of lisbon. on 19 june 2009, the european council agreed that the heads of state or government should adopt a decision to reassure the people of ireland and address their concerns regarding the lisbon treaty in the areas of the right to life, family and education, taxation and security and defence. since it was agreed that the provisions of the said decision would be laid down in a protocol at the time of the conclusion of the next accession treaty, i supported the european parliament's recommendation not to convene a separate convention on this subject.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision to examine the proposed amendments to the treaties at the request of ireland. at the european council of 19 june 2009, the heads of state or government decided to provide for appropriate legal safeguards in the light of the concerns of the irish people regarding the right to life, family and education, taxation, security and defence, and decided to include the provisions of this decision in a protocol by the conclusion of a new accession treaty and subject to the relevant constitutional requirements, and to add an explanation of certain provisions to the existing treaty of lisbon in order to avoid the need for a new revision of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to examine how the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth can be achieved in the outermost regions of the european union. the outermost regions of the european union are those regions which, by reason of their specific characteristics relating to physical and structural conditions resulting from their remoteness, isolation and the difficult topographical and climatic conditions, constitute a specific group of regions recognised by the treaty of lisbon. the outermost regions of the european union are currently madeira, the azores and the canary islands, martinique, guadeloupe, réunion, french guiana and saint-martin. those regions enjoy a special status under the treaty, which allows for derogations from the provisions of the treaty and their assimilation to the outermost regions, taking into account their specific characteristics and conditions. i supported the proposals in the report to take due account of the specificities of these regions and to give particular attention to cohesion policy, which is the main pillar of small farms in these regions, to coordinate eu policies in the outermost regions in order to better achieve the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion in these regions, to contribute to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to further integrate these regions into the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because cohesion policy must be integrated into the europe 2020 strategy and the outermost regions intend to cooperate in the implementation of the five objectives in the fields of employment, innovation, education, social inclusion, climate and energy, which must be achieved by 2020. the outermost regions have a justified special status enshrined in the treaty, as they face specific difficulties linked to their physical and structural circumstances, mainly due to their remoteness, isolation and difficult topographical and climatic conditions. the initial conditions for achieving the cohesion objectives in remote regions are therefore more difficult than in certain regions, and it is also necessary to exploit their potential and promote the growth of efficient sectors in order to ensure the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. cohesion policy must remain one of the main instruments of european union action to reduce disparities between all european regions, in particular the outermost regions, with regard to the internal market and to achieve the europe 2020 objectives, as the european funds are a key instrument for achieving the objectives. it is not only aid but also compensation for the region's shortcomings. however, it should be borne in mind that this eu policy alone cannot overcome all the challenges faced by the outermost regions.
in writing. − cohesion policy is one of the main instruments of eu action to reduce disparities between all european regions, especially the outermost regions, with the aim of integrating these regions into the internal market and strengthening them in the relevant geographical area, promoting their economic development and convergence with the eu mainland, and pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, as the european funds are a very important instrument, but i believe that this eu policy alone cannot overcome all the difficulties faced by the outermost regions. i therefore abstained in my vote on the european parliament resolution on the role of cohesion policy in the outermost regions of the european union in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. −cohesion policy must be coordinated with the europe 2020 strategy in order to achieve the objectives of the strategy properly and effectively. the outermost regions, although geographically remote from the eu member states, are of great economic importance. the eu's cohesion policy aims to promote the economic development of these regions and their convergence with the eu mainland. i believe that eu rules and programmes should be implemented in the same way throughout the eu. clear criteria must be established to ensure that support is given to those who really need it. it is also essential that aid be granted in accordance with the gdp indicator and the level of development of each region.
in writing. − the eu respects two principles: harmony and specificity. european cohesion policy promotes prosperity of all the regions by taking advantage of their strengths. in the context of eu 2020 the outermost regions of the eu need a specific approach to help them to reach the objectives. i voted in favour of this report, because the european policy towards the outermost regions needs a strategic approach. on the one hand, the outermost regions have to be managed in a specific way, based on their particularities. on the other hand, these regions cannot be excluded from transverse european policies. in view of success already achieved, specific measures should be developed in different sectors, promoting the growth and cohesion of these regions. a very important measure to ensure their cohesion is the promotion of partnership relations with both neighbouring regions and more remote territories.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, most of the issues raised in this report concerning the outermost regions of the union also apply to lithuania. there are still significant social and economic differences between lithuania and other regions of the european union. based on the ismeri europa and european commission report on the achievements of cohesion policy in lithuania, it can be concluded that the lack of clear priorities still limits the effectiveness of this policy. the implementation of cohesion policy in lithuania has been slow, partly due to poor governance. in lithuania, applicants for structural funds funds still complain of inflexible administrative mechanisms and dubious transparency: the application procedure often takes more than one year and, once the application has been submitted, the applicant cannot change any deadlines or conditions. in view of the rapidly changing business environment, more flexibility and freedom should be introduced for the renewal of a project already submitted. if implemented properly, cohesion policy could offer lithuania great potential.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european union is committed to basing its external action on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity and the rights of minorities, equality and solidarity, and to respecting the principles enshrined in the charter of the united nations and international law. the eu annual report on the situation of human rights and democracy is a key tool for analysing and assessing eu policy on these issues. i agree with the criticism in the report that the content of the annual reports remains descriptive rather than evaluative. in order to ensure a consistent and effective eu external policy in the field of human rights and democracy, it is necessary to establish comparable criteria for assessing the progress of third countries in these areas. i believe that the high representative of the union should in future consult the european parliament in depth when drafting annual reports and present the annual report on the human rights situation in plenary, which was not done this year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because appropriate measures are needed to ensure that human rights and fundamental freedoms are not endangered or undermined in times of economic crisis. the european union should continue to make additional efforts to integrate human rights and democracy more effectively into all aspects of development cooperation and to ensure that eu development programmes support partner countries in fulfilling their international human rights obligations. parliament welcomes the important council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, which establishes a comprehensive system for preventing violence, protecting victims and ending impunity, and calls on all member states and the european union to sign and ratify this convention as a matter of urgency. the ep condemns all human rights violations where individuals have been discriminated against on the grounds of work and origin, and the limited access to justice for victims. in addition, the eu and the member states should endorse the draft united nations principles and recommendations on the elimination of effective discrimination on the grounds of employment and origin. on freedom of expression and expression, the eu should do more to promote media freedom, protect independent journalists, reduce the digital divide and facilitate access to the internet.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the eu must pursue a coherent and consistent policy to support and promote human rights in the world. i believe that it is essential to implement the recommendations on the transport of prisoners and illegal detention as soon as possible. member states should address more effectively the problems of complicity in human rights abuses worldwide, involvement in the us rendition and secret detention programme and local human rights abuses in the implementation of these programmes. only by working together can we prevent the use of secret detention as a pretext for fighting terrorism. eu member states cannot continue to be used for the smuggling of prisoners and for illegal detention. in order to have a strong and transparent political union and an effective and coherent system for the protection of human rights, the eu must complete the negotiation process and accede to the european convention on human rights. i support the new european neighbourhood policy. greater support must be given to those partners who are engaged in building deeper and more sustainable democracy and supporting inclusive economic development. in addition, there is a need to continue to support democratic movements, ngos and civil rights defenders in the eastern neighbourhood.
in writing. − the eu is acting all over the world to promote respect for human rights, which is an integral part of eu foreign policy. i voted in favour of this report, because it emphasises that human rights is a fundamental eu value, and that economic and political priorities should not be the be-all and end-all. eu cooperation with third countries has to be based on the real performance made by the countries towards better human rights implementation. special attention should be paid to our immediate neighbours. in our external action we should remember that there are more than 10 political prisoners in belarus, and politically motivated cases in russia and ukraine. i agree with the rapporteur that it is extremely important to be aware of work which is being done by local actors in third countries defending human rights and to have a possibility to support it. the bottom-up approach needs improved communication with the top, information sharing and cooperation between civil societies in third countries, the eu and other actors involved in the protection of human rights. for this reason the european institutions should cooperate more closely with organised civil societies in third countries.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, this report is overdue. i would like to draw your attention to two very important issues raised in this report. in particular, the report recalls that the eu is committed under the treaty to basing its external action on the principles of democracy and the rule of law. secondly, the report states that to ensure that the eu is a credible actor in external relations, its policy must be consistent and exemplary within the union itself. it must act consistently within the treaty, avoiding double standards in human rights policy and other external policies. both points are not properly implemented in the eu. the ep has no moral right to preach to others as long as it has the worst human rights violations and even crimes in its own union. when they put up secondaries, they pocket the cameras, they make house arrests during elections, they prevent them from meeting with voters, they carry out illegal searches, they seize funds, they block the activities of parties, they slander them on state television. the worst part is that the ep ignores and even conceals the crimes committed by eu member states against opponents. falsified lawsuits, opposition drawn into court cases, people being dragged off the court year after year. a mechanism was created that would allow him to prove his truth only after 10-15 years, after his political career had been ruined. it's an act of democracy.
in writing. − i have endorsed the european parliament recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiation of an eu-azerbaijan association agreement. azerbaijan plays an important role in the implementation of the european union's eastern partnership, which provides the political basis for strengthening bilateral relations through the conclusion of new association agreements. azerbaijan is making rapid progress in information and communication technologies, in particular in the area of e-government, which is increasing the transparency of public administration and helping to fight corruption, and the government of azerbaijan is demonstrating its commitment to active cooperation with the eu and to undertaking the necessary reforms to promote the development of democracy. i support the european parliament's recommendations to include in the association agreement conditions and criteria for the protection and promotion of human rights, to emphasise the importance of ensuring the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, including freedom of assembly and association and the right to private property, the establishment of civil society, the rule of law, the continuous fight against corruption, political pluralism and independent media and courts, to fully respect the judgments of the european court of human rights and to support the reforms implemented by the azerbaijani authorities in the field of the judiciary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as parliamentary cooperation under the eastern partnership and bilateral programmes is a key aspect in developing progressive political cooperation between the european union and azerbaijan. azerbaijan plays a positive role in the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy and contributes to the eu's energy security challenges. it is therefore important to ensure that the eu-azerbaijan association agreement provides a comprehensive and forward-looking framework for the development of future relations with azerbaijan, which will help to promote political association, economic convergence and legislative approximation and strengthen the relations that the european union and azerbaijan have decided to develop. it is essential to include in this association agreement conditions and criteria for the protection and promotion of human rights, in particular those relating to freedom of the media, freedom of expression, freedom of association and assembly, which reflect the principles and rights enshrined in the constitution of azerbaijan and the highest international and european standards. it is particularly important to develop and develop a strong youth sector and to support the various public programmes offering scholarships for study abroad in this context. furthermore, the necessary steps should be taken to include in the association agreement provisions allowing azerbaijan to participate in community programmes and agencies which contribute to the promotion of european integration at all levels.
in writing. − eu-azerbaijan relations have been steadily strengthening over the past years, with cooperation becoming closer, particularly in the energy and transport sectors. azerbaijan plays an important role in the implementation of the eastern partnership of the european union. in order to ensure that the association agreement provides a comprehensive and forward-looking basis for the development of future relations with azerbaijan, azerbaijan needs to implement reforms more effectively and address the country's most pressing challenges. first, the rule of law and democratic checks and balances need to be strengthened. it also aims to prevent corruption, fraud and human rights abuses in the country. for security purposes, i believe that the azerbaijani authorities should sign and ratify the convention on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and the convention on cluster munitions.
in writing. − azerbaijan is an important partner for the eu in its energy trade. however, the implementation of the values of democracy, human rights and freedoms is no less important in this country. today we hear that people are still being arrested in azerbaijan for their political beliefs, that there are 'forced evictions' and that people's property rights are being violated. i support this report, which calls in particular for the country to guarantee human rights on its way to the european union. the negotiations on an eu-azerbaijan association agreement are also overshadowed by the frozen nagorno-karabakh conflict. the minsk group, composed of russia, france and the us, mediates the conflict between azerbaijan and armenia, but its achievements so far are not enough. brussels is concerned about the slow progress in the settlement of the conflict and calls on both azerbaijan and armenia to implement the minsk group recommendations as soon as possible. the eu stands ready to continue its support for deepening democracy, ensuring the implementation of human rights and resolving conflicts. i hope that the association agreement will be a key driver in achieving these objectives.
in writing. − i have endorsed the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the conclusion of the negotiations on an eu-armenia association agreement. association agreements provide a suitable basis for further developing relations by strengthening political association, social, economic integration and legal harmonisation with the eu, as well as for developing cultural links with third countries. the active commitment of armenia to shared values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, is essential to continue the process and negotiations and to ensure the implementation of the association agreement in the future. although the armenian authorities have repeatedly stated their commitment to these values and have indicated armenia's european ambitions, the pace of reforms has not always been in line with reality. i agree that the association agreement with armenia should include conditions and criteria reflecting the highest international and european standards on the protection and promotion of human rights and guarantee the enjoyment of fundamental freedoms, including freedom of assembly and association, the development of civil society, the rule of law, the continuous fight against corruption, ensuring market competitiveness and the independence of the media.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the association agreement between the european union and armenia would provide a comprehensive and advanced framework for the future development of relations with armenia and would strengthen political association, economic convergence and legal harmonisation. this association agreement should emphasise the importance of guaranteeing the exercise of fundamental freedoms, including freedom of assembly and association, the development of civil society, the rule of law, the continuous fight against corruption and the independence of the media. it is also important to ensure that armenian civil society and non-governmental organisations are regularly and continuously consulted throughout the process of negotiating the association agreement and that their views are brought to the fore and their recommendations taken into account where appropriate. it is particularly important to emphasise the independence of the judiciary, transparent procurement procedures, the separation of politics from business and the need to dismantle oligarchic economic structures, reliable judicial processes that ensure fair trial and access to justice for all citizens, a safe environment for investigative journalism and access to information, independent and social media. this association agreement should include conditions and criteria reflecting the highest international and european standards on the protection and promotion of human rights, making maximum use of the structures of the council of europe and the osce and of the ongoing eu-armenia human rights dialogue.
in writing. − the successful conclusion of the eu-armenia negotiations and the effective functioning of a mutually beneficial association agreement require armenia to pursue political, economic and judicial reforms in its country. i support the proposal calling on the leaders of armenia and azerbaijan to behave more responsibly and to soften statements and refrain from divisive declarations in order to facilitate a constructive dialogue at all levels of society. i also believe that armenia should reduce its military spending and devote more resources to important issues such as poverty reduction, social protection, economic development.
in writing. − i welcome the congratulations to armenia on the implementation of democratic reforms, greater freedom of speech and human rights in the country and the ambitious goal of holding the freest elections in the country's history on 6 may. armenia is showing that eu integration is becoming a clearer priority for the state. as the largest project for peace and social justice, the european union is also an example for armenia, showing that peace can be achieved in the 20-year conflict in nagorno-karabakh. the settlement of the conflict should start with an agreement between the eu and armenia to build relations on the basis of common values. i call on the eu to encourage armenia to take a more constructive approach to the conflict, withdraw its military forces from the occupied territories and allow the international community to maintain peace there. i support the report because it proposes to liberalize the eu-armenia visa regime for the development of human relations as soon as the country fulfils the eu's requirements for democratisation and conflict resolution.
it is certainly difficult to say something new in one minute, but i think we have to admit that the measures that we have been hoping to use so far have not worked. we were very afraid to talk about the bad situation in italy that had arisen. now there's been some disturbing news in the press about spain and so on. for the other countries of the european union, it is only a matter of time before we actually change our approach to the global context. we take care of everything, but taking care of climate change and helping third countries and many other things requires not a lot and not a little money. but we don't have the funds to do it ourselves. so i really see a way out today that we have to start looking at protecting our market. we need to start thinking about how to rebuild the inequities that are programmed into the future financial perspective today. i am referring to direct payments in agriculture and many other things.
for the efd group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the economic and financial recession in europe, tax collection and tax policy issues are becoming increasingly important. the tax policy must be simple, clear and understandable to every taxpayer. charges must be effective and fair. meanwhile, tax evasion and fraud are the main threats to the revenue of every country, costing billions. only an effective and targeted fight against tax evasion and avoidance is therefore the main way to obtain the resources needed to increase public investment in order to increase europe's international competitiveness and growth potential. it is necessary to create conditions in which tax evasion is both unnecessary and unrewarding. the council and the commission must therefore take the most decisive action to address this issue. joint efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion can ensure the effective functioning of member states' tax bases and increase revenue without increasing the tax burden.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the conclusion of the voluntary agreement between the european union and the central african republic on forest law enforcement, forest management and trade in timber imported into the european union (flegt). 60% of central african timber is exported to europe. the main causes of deforestation in the central african republic are poor law enforcement and monitoring, due to a lack of human, material and financial resources, resulting in illegal logging and timber harvesting and bush burning. the aim of this agreement is to prevent illegal logging and to establish a set of legal instruments to ensure the traceability, legality checks and licensing of timber and timber products to be exported to the eu market, and to provide for monitoring and independent auditing. i support the calls in the european parliament's recommendation to focus more on the effective implementation of the sps in a timely manner and to report regularly on the progress of the sps.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation on the drafting of a voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the central african republic on forest law enforcement, forest management and trade in timber and timber products imported into the european union, as this agreement covers all timber products to be exported, including wood chips, logs, sawn timber, veneer and wood furniture for fuel. the central african republic's system for verifying the legality of timber and timber products applies to all products exported, not only to the eu. it will also cover timber imported from third countries and processed in the central african republic for export. this voluntary partnership agreement not only aims to improve the standards, sustainability and accountability of the forest sector, but also has the potential to have a positive impact on the overall development and economic growth of the central african republic, including by ensuring revenues from timber exports to the eu and other international markets. the forest management forum, composed of representatives of non-governmental organisations and civil society, will monitor the implementation of this agreement and report its observations to the joint committee on the implementation of the agreement between the european union and the central african republic, in order to monitor the full scope of the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the agreement as it establishes a partnership instrument to improve management standards, sustainability and accountability in the forest sector. the agreement has the potential to have a positive impact on the overall development and economic growth of the central african republic, including by ensuring revenue from timber exports to the eu and other international markets. in the future, tax revenues from industrial deforestation should provide increasing benefits to local economies and communities. at the same time, it obliges the partner country to develop a legislative framework and systems for traceability, legality checks and licensing of timber and timber products to be exported to the eu market and to provide for monitoring and independent auditing.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in order to ensure that only legally harvested timber is traded and to promote sound forest management, an effectively functioning voluntary partnership agreement is necessary. i believe that this agreement will have enormous benefits for the development and economic growth of the central african republic. it is noted that this agreement will facilitate the implementation by the central african republic of its commitments to improve accountability and increase transparency.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the conclusion of the voluntary agreement between the european union and liberia on forest law enforcement, forest management and trade in timber imported into the european union (flegt). forests cover almost 45 percent of liberia's land area, and the country also has more than half of the tropical rainforests of west africa. during the civil war that lasted from 1997 to 2003, timber revenues were used to fuel internal conflicts, leading the un security council to impose sanctions on timber imports from liberia. the 2006 sanctions in the forestry sector were lifted following the change in the political situation and the reforms. the commission has also received a request from the liberian authorities to provide additional information on the implementation of the agreement. i support the calls in the european parliament's recommendation to focus more on effective and timely implementation of the sps, including capacity building and involvement of local communities, and to report regularly on the progress of the sps.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation on the drafting of a voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia on forest law enforcement, forest management and trade in timber products imported into the european union, as this agreement commits liberia to establish a system to ensure that all timber products exported from liberia are legally produced. the definition of legal timber used in liberia is not limited to the products listed in the voluntary partnership agreement, but also applies to wood chips, logs and wood furniture and covers various aspects of timber production, including the granting of logging rights, labour rights and environmental obligations. in liberia, the vpa was developed with a particularly active multi-stakeholder approach, with direct involvement of civil society and industry, and for the first time with the participation of forest dwelling communities, whose concerns and interests were given particular consideration in the vpa. in addition, the process of concluding the voluntary partnership agreement paid particular attention to the legality verification system, independent auditing, the role of civil society in monitoring the implementation of the agreement, as well as transparency and exchange of information. the eu-liberia voluntary partnership agreement has thus been drawn up in a transparent manner with the active participation of the largest number of participants to date, including all key stakeholders involved in the forestry sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the agreement because it is expected that, like previous voluntary partnership agreements, this agreement with liberia will help improve the governance and enforcement of the country's forestry sector. the vpa has not only helped to create a partnership instrument that will enable liberia to prevent deforestation and forest degradation that contribute to climate change, but should also improve the chances of liberian timber products establishing themselves in european and other international markets. the agreement can therefore be expected to have a positive impact on the development and growth of liberia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution endorsing the conclusion of the eu-liberia voluntary partnership agreement on forest law enforcement, forest management and trade in timber products imported into the eu. the agreement will ensure the continued and effective exploitation of the timber resources of liberia. in addition, it is necessary to strengthen the legal framework to promote sustainable forest management and to involve local communities in the decision-making process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in the member states most affected by the financial and economic crisis, namely greece, ireland, portugal and romania, some strategic projects selected for co-financing under cohesion policy programmes risked not being implemented because private investors and banks either do not have sufficient liquidity to lend to projects and project developers or are unwilling to take the risks of investing under the current conditions. this regulation will provide for an exceptional exemption for the implementation of projects in the area of cohesion policy in order to ensure the consistent economic growth and development of the member states concerned in the future through the implementation of infrastructure and investment projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european commission's proposal aims to ensure the continuity of the implementation of programmes financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund, with a view to the economic recovery of the member states receiving financial support. the european union is currently experiencing a continuing economic and financial crisis, which is affecting not only the macroeconomic stability of many member states but also the availability of financing throughout the european union. this threatens the implementation of cohesion policy programmes, as the liquidity problems faced by financial institutions limit the amount of funds they can allocate to public and private entities carrying out projects under these programmes. the commission proposal for the creation of a risk-sharing instrument aims to remove the serious obstacles faced by some member states, in particular greece, in obtaining private funds for infrastructure and productive investment projects that can only be partly financed by public funds. the proposed measure constitutes an exception to the normal framework for the implementation of cohesion policy, justified only by exceptional circumstances arising from the crisis. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the european parliament and the council's contribution to the budget of the european school in brussels.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it seeks to ensure the continuity of the implementation of programmes financed jointly by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund with a view to the economic recovery of the member states receiving financial support. the measure aims to remove the serious obstacles faced by some member states in obtaining private funds for infrastructure and productive investment projects that can only be partly financed by public funds. in member states hit hardest by the financial and economic crisis, some strategic projects selected for co-financing under cohesion policy programmes risked not being implemented because private investors and banks either did not have sufficient liquidity to lend to projects and project developers or were unwilling to take the risks of investing under the existing conditions. the proposed measure constitutes an exception to the normal framework for the implementation of cohesion policy, justified only by exceptional circumstances arising from the crisis. the objective of this measure is therefore to cover part of the risk associated with lending to banks or project developers in member states experiencing or threatened with severe financial stability difficulties, in order to preserve the involvement of private investors and to overcome the significant obstacles encountered in the implementation of cohesion policy programmes.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in this critical period of financial constraints, it is necessary to help member states implement structural fund programmes and infrastructure projects that can have a rapid real impact on the economy and increase employment. it is worth noting that the european investment bank or other international institutions will be able to approve more easily loans for co-financing public projects with private contributions, at a time when such loans are not available due to problems of financial stability in the member states. i believe that it should be ensured that only projects with a clear positive impact on the local economy and labour market and for which the eib has taken a favourable decision on financing are considered eligible for funding under the risk-sharing instrument.
in writing. − the economic crisis became a challenge for the european union. member states do not face it independently one from another; it threatens the whole union. that is why we have to be flexible to respond efficiently. i welcome efforts by the commission and the rapporteur in this direction. the new measure proposed is designed to respond to specific problems in specific circumstances. previous measures have foreseen austerity for member states in difficulties. but it is not enough. in greece there is 50% youth unemployment. to tackle this and other social and economic problems, the countries in crisis need growth. and the eu should help them; it should reform its instruments in order to be able to boost economies.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe it is necessary to refer the matter to the court of justice of the european union for an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the use and transfer of passenger data records to the united states department of homeland security. any restriction on fundamental rights and freedoms must be necessary, proportionate and established by law. it should be noted that there is a lot of legal uncertainty in this agreement as regards its compliance with eu data protection legislation. there is no clear and precise purpose of the agreement, no duration of the data retention period. i think there should be a narrower list of data to be transmitted. there's some question as to whether the department of homeland security should be handling classified information.
in writing. − the european union and the united states face many common challenges in ensuring the effective fight against international terrorism, which is part of the broader global agenda. in this overall objective, information sharing, in particular the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) by air carriers operating between the eu and the usa, is considered to be a contribution to combating threats to international peace and security. i voted against this document because there is a need, first of all, to comply with european data protection standards. secondly, it is necessary to protect fundamental rights and ensure the utmost respect for the privacy of eu citizens, in accordance with relevant eu standards and data protection rules. the draft new agreement also has many shortcomings, in particular with regard to the broad purpose of the use of pnr data, the retention period and concerns about the further transfer of data to third parties. i believe that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is in conformity with eu data protection law and, therefore, as to whether this agreement is compatible with the treaties in this respect.
in writing. − i do not support this resolution on the conclusion of the us-eu agreement on the use and transfer of passenger data records to the us department of homeland security. i think that the benefits of this agreement are questionable, and it has many drawbacks. in particular, there is no clear purpose for the use of the data, no clear retention period. it should be noted that there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the further transfer of data to third parties. such an agreement would therefore violate the principles of privacy and data protection for eu citizens. there is no doubt that the joint eu-us fight against international terrorism needs to be strengthened, but the right of eu citizens to privacy and data security must be respected in all cases. we must seek to maintain a balance between enhanced security and protection of human rights, including data protection and privacy.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) aims to remove some of the main tax obstacles to growth in the single market. in the absence of common corporate tax rules, differences in national tax systems often lead to over- and double taxation, and companies face a high administrative burden and compliance costs. this situation is not conducive to investment in the eu and therefore hinders the implementation of the priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy. although the commission proposal does not make it mandatory for ucits, in order for the scheme to have a real impact on businesses, to increase fiscal transparency, and to improve the fairness and efficiency of the tax system, it needs to be made mandatory for all businesses operating in the eu. i therefore support the european parliament's proposal to establish a timetable for the transition to the mandatory application of the ccctb in the long term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) is a necessary instrument for the creation of the european internal market and for ensuring the european economic integration necessary for the stability of the euro area. the tax bases of the member states of the european union are different and partly constitute barriers to trade which hamper growth and employment. the european union's system of stss comprises a comprehensive set of rules governing how the separate tax for each undertaking or branch is calculated, how those results (profits and losses) are consolidated and how that consolidated tax base, when positive, is allocated proportionally to all the member states concerned. the important point is that each member state will apply its own tariff to its part of the tax base. only the calculation and allocation of the tax base will be coordinated. member states will be able to set their own rates of taxation. nor will national financial reporting rules be harmonised. with regard to the ccctb, the objective will be to reduce the cost of tax compliance for companies in the internal market by establishing a common corporate tax base system so that groups of companies can deal with only one tax administration. however, to ensure that the calculation of the tax base does not take account of fraudulent transactions whose main purpose is to avoid taxation, it is necessary to consider stricter anti-abuse rules.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the ccctb directive sets out common rules for the calculation of the tax base applicable to companies operating in the eu. this eu tax system comprises a comprehensive set of rules on how to calculate the individual tax for each company or branch, how to consolidate those results (profits and losses) taking into account the other members of the group and how to distribute that consolidated tax base, where it is positive, proportionately to all the member states concerned. only the calculation and allocation of the tax base will be coordinated. member states will be able to set their own rates of taxation. the national financial reporting rules shall also not apply. the escb is a necessary instrument for the creation of the european internal market and for the economic integration of europe. the various distortions of the internal market can only be eliminated by adopting a common set of rules, applying common administrative procedures and the 'one-stop-shop' principle. the main benefits of using the ccctb are: greater fiscal transparency; lower implementation costs and less red tape, thus improving the growth potential of cross-border businesses, making the eu more attractive to foreign investors; the likelihood that decisions on allocation in the internal market will be taken in a more tax-neutral socioeconomic context than is currently the case; reduction of two types of tax problems (tax avoidance and evasion, and double taxation).
in writing. − establishing a common eu-wide consolidated corporate tax base an attractive proposition, providing convenience for companies operating in more than one member state, providing clarity in the calculation of corporate tax. on the other hand, the harmonisation of the base must not lead to the harmonisation of the tariff, since this could have a negative impact on the economy of some member states and on investment in them.
in writing. − i support this resolution on the council directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base. i believe that it is necessary to enable all taxpayers in the european union to calculate the tax base on the basis of uniform rules for the calculation of taxable profits. this will benefit companies operating across borders. i think it is appropriate that the system for calculating the corporation tax should be optional rather than mandatory. in particular, greater fiscal transparency, lower implementation costs and less red tape will be ensured. i do not support the proposal to set a minimum european rate of corporation tax. the proposed minimum corporate tax rate of 25% would not be objectively justified and appropriate for many companies. i think that the member states should set the level of corporate tax themselves.
in writing. - i abstained on this important question. the commission's proposal on energy products and electricity taxes is indeed a major contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases set out in the eu's 2020 strategy. the commission proposes to split energy taxation into co2 taxation and energy value taxation. this means that a single minimum rate of co2 emissions (eur 20/t co2) will be set for all sectors not covered by the eu emissions trading system. therefore, these sectors, in particular households, transport, small businesses and agriculture, will be subject to a co2 price. in addition, each energy product will be taxed according to the amount of energy that can be extracted from it. while the introduction of a co2-related tax of eur 20 per tonne is projected to generate eur 20 billion in tax revenues from all eu member states as early as 2020, it is necessary to assess in detail the impact of this proposal on eu industry and its economic growth. the adoption of this proposal would lead to a significant increase in diesel prices in many member states, which would have a negative impact on europe's competitiveness in the development of diesel engine technologies and on the european automotive industry, which is already facing serious competition from third countries. i think it is necessary to review and evaluate the implications of this proposal in depth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is a major contribution to the implementation of the european union's strategy europe 2020 on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. the main objective of the current energy taxation directive, adopted in 2003, is to prevent distortions of competition in the energy sector of the internal market. with this proposal to amend the directive, the european commission aims to bring together four themes: climate change, energy efficiency, the internal market and the promotion of growth and employment. it is important to adapt the energy tax structure in order to contribute to the objective of transitioning to a low-carbon, energy-efficient economy and to avoid problems in the internal market. the commission proposes to tax energy on two bases: the amount of co2 emitted and the energy value. this communication, which includes a co2-related element in energy taxation, aims to bring energy taxation into line with the eu's commitments to combat climate change. the aim is also to respect the proportionality of the different minimum levels set by the member states in the european union. the key is therefore to find the right balance between the objectives in order to provide the right impetus at european union level.
in writing. − i would vote against, because although energy price increases encourage more efficient use of energy, the negative consequences of energy price increases ultimately outweigh the positive effect. moreover, recent scientific developments in europe show that the use of diesel engines can be partly used to reduce co2 emissions. the european commission is surprisingly inconsistent in wanting to end automatic wage indexation where it still applies, but, on the same grounds, it proposes to introduce it in the area of energy taxation. the negative impact on households and businesses would be significantly greater than the expected positive impact. the collection of revenues through energy taxes reduces people's incomes.
in writing. − when we consider the issue of energy products and electricity taxes, we are not only talking about eu energy policy, but also about eu environmental policy. in the debates in this chamber, it is often the lament of members that we have too few concrete measures to combat climate change. i therefore welcome the proposal put forward by mr algirdo šemetė, member of the european commission, in particular because it ensures fairness and uniform rules for the taxation of different energy sources by means of a uniform calculation methodology. on the other hand, i agree that the proposal may seem too revolutionary for industry, especially in the light of long-established practices and trends. i agree with the general provisions on the need to change the energy taxation system to promote energy efficiency and the use of less polluting fuels. if we are to achieve our climate change and energy efficiency goals, we will have to take this step. however, i also support a longer transitional period to allow the energy and automotive industries to adapt to the new requirements and the requirement that the ec carry out an impact assessment analysis and only then take appropriate action.
in writing. - i do not support this resolution. the proposed taxation of energy products and electricity will have a significant negative impact on the autonomy of member states' energy tax regimes and on companies operating in the energy market. the automatic indexation of the thresholds would deprive the state of its right to control the thresholds. i believe that member states should choose the most appropriate measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it should be noted that energy prices have increased recently and are high. however, the application of this directive would lead to an increase in those costs. the final consumer would thus be placed under an unreasonable and disproportionate burden. in addition, the difficulties and problems faced by eu consumers and industry would increase. in view of this, i think that more attention should be paid to industrial policy. this directive should not apply to energy-intensive industry.
in writing. - i supported this report because i agree with its main idea: the rules on energy taxation must be adapted to today's realities and the eu's aspirations. a double taxation system, whereby part of the tax is determined by the co2 emissions of the fuel and part by the energy value of the fuel, will create a level playing field for all fuels. the commission will also consider whether the measures are compatible with the internal market. this will encourage the development of new, more environmentally friendly technologies. new tax rules are particularly important if europe is serious about meeting its climate change commitments by 2020. the commission proposal will only set a minimum tax base. eu countries will have a lot of freedom to set minimum or higher levels of taxation. importantly, the proposal allows eu countries to exempt fuel used for heating residential buildings from taxation. i would think that the transition period until 2023 would give the eu industry, transport and other sectors enough time to adapt to the changes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the problem of tax evasion is becoming more and more acute in the member states of the european union. it has been found that tax evasion and tax avoidance have resulted in the loss of huge amounts of revenue to the budget of the governments of the member states of the european union. this encourages deficits and debts in the member states. the funds for public investment, growth and employment are also declining. the commission has also identified a number of problems with tax evasion and avoidance, which undermine citizens' confidence in the fairness and legality of tax collection. countries participating in aid programmes that have improved tax collection and abolished concessions under european union proposals have experienced their large enterprises leaving them to take advantage of tax breaks offered by other countries. publicly available information on tax evasion and avoidance in each member state should therefore be substantially improved. eu member states should review their tax systems to make them more efficient and effective, to eliminate unjustified exceptions, to broaden the tax base, to reduce the taxation of labour, to improve the efficiency of tax collection and to tackle tax evasion. it is also important to adopt european union rules to prevent forms of tax competition which impede the implementation of recovery strategies by the countries concerned. this can contribute to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, including those involving third parties.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document as it calls on the commission to address as soon as possible the issues raised by the revision of the eu savings tax directive and to reach an agreement with switzerland and the member states concerned as a matter of urgency. the strengthening of the regulation and transparency of company registers and trust fund registers is an important prerequisite for combating tax avoidance. the commission should identify areas where improvements in eu legislation and administrative cooperation between member states can be made to reduce tax fraud. member states should ensure smooth cooperation and coordination of their tax systems in order to prevent inadvertent tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud. member states must also allocate adequate resources to the national services responsible for combating tax fraud. it is important to implement new and advanced strategies to combat vat fraud across the eu. member states should review existing bilateral agreements between member states and bilateral agreements between member states and third countries to determine the extent to which they contribute to tax avoidance and to the extent to which they impede effective taxation in the country of source in certain member states. there is a need for greater transparency and stricter controls to prevent the use of tax havens belonging to non-cooperative foreign jurisdictions that have no or minimal taxes, do not share information with foreign tax authorities and whose legal, regulatory or administrative provisions are not sufficiently transparent.
in writing. − i support this resolution, which calls for concrete action to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance. in the context of today's european economy and economic downturn, the issues of tax collection and tax policy in general are of particular importance. tax evasion and fraud are a major factor that threatens the revenue of every country and cost billions. this is not a problem that can be solved only at the national level. only an effective and targeted fight against tax evasion and avoidance is the key to securing the resources needed to increase public investment in europe's international competitiveness and growth opportunities. the effectiveness of this fight should not be achieved by policing, but by creating conditions in which tax evasion is both useless and unprofitable. the council should develop eu quantitative targets for reducing tax avoidance by 2020 and complete the reform of the savings tax directive as soon as possible. this would enhance the automatic exchange of information and ensure fair and appropriate taxation of savings income across the eu.
in writing. indeed, the delay in the european union's accession to the european convention on human rights is both worrying and surprising. in particular, all parties, including the two member states opposed to eu accession to the convention, supported and signed the treaty of lisbon in 2007, which provides for the accession of the european union to the convention. a particularly worrying aspect of this issue is that it is precisely these states, which do not support or seek to delay eu accession to the european convention on human rights, that are also seeking reform of the european court of human rights, which would limit the ability of citizens to directly address the court and reduce the court's competence and power. the european parliament already receives letters from concerned citizens for whom the possibility of appealing directly to the court of human rights and the binding nature of its decisions on member states, even in our democratic 21st century european states, is often the last chance to restore justice to them. of course, reforms that would speed up the settlement of cases before the court of human rights are welcome.
i thank the rapporteurs for their work. there is a lack of understanding of the relationship between gender and climate change, and perhaps that is why mr griffin has not understood the problem well enough, and that is what he said today. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. while climate change affects all humanity, the recurrence of natural disasters has shown that women and children are still the most affected and the most affected by natural disasters. the poorest women in developing countries are the most vulnerable to climate change, because they do the hard physical work of running the household, working in agriculture, which is really detrimental to their health. unfortunately, women often lack access to health services, and climate change will require even more physical and mental strength from women now and in the future. data are still lacking and statistics are not available by gender. unfortunately, this also hinders a better understanding and appreciation of the gender dimension of climate change. the future will be marked by increasing climate change impacts, and the fight against climate change must be a priority for the european union.
in writing. – i supported the report on the impact of climate change on women because it raises a very specific aspect of environmental policies. climate change is not only about nature and natural resources. human rights and human well-being are challenged by climate change as well. and our efforts in this domain could improve life conditions for millions of people on the earth. the report clearly shows how the environmental policies can promote equality between women and men if they are adjusted to meet the specific needs of women. the issue is particularly important since women play a much more significant role in climate-change-related activities than men. we have to provide women equal opportunities, promote their rights to work, to an equal salary, to necessary health conditions. we also have to improve communication in order to learn their demands and to encourage them to use existing opportunities. therefore i support the rapporteur’s call to the european institutions and national governments to make more efforts to make their environmental policies more gender sensitive.
in writing. today we are discussing the future guidelines for eu environmental policy. this is a relatively new and fast-developing policy area, and it is not surprising that with each environmental action programme adopted new regulatory areas emerge and that existing regulation is often tightened during the programme's lifetime. new scientific data and technical possibilities, as well as accidents with an impact on the environment, mean that the concept of a 'high level of environmental protection' must be constantly reviewed, raising the bar higher and higher. one of the aspects to which we should pay attention in the forthcoming seventh environment action programme is the improvement of the environmental impact assessment process, ensuring its independence. the process that started as a voluntary assessment of planned activities has now become an integral part of the planning process. however, the current arrangements do not ensure that this process is objective and independent of the client. the eu is aware of a number of cases where there were reasonable doubts as to whether the ppp process was indeed transparent. i therefore call for the independence and objectivity of the eia process to be established as one of the environmental policy priorities and for discussions on possible mechanisms to start now, without waiting for the eia directive to be revised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft amending budget for 2012 which aims to allocate eur 650 million in commitment appropriations to the european joint undertaking for iter. this project has been running since 1988 and aims to demonstrate that fusion energy could be a highly useful source of energy in the eu, with the long-term reliability of energy supply and the diversity of energy sources. this international project involves the european union, japan, the united states of america, the people's republic of china, south korea and the russian federation. the price adjustments have increased the eu contribution, which led to the agreement of the european parliament and the council in december 2011 to allocate an additional eur 1 300 million to the iter project in 2012-13.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the europe 2020 strategy envisages that by 2020, 40% of people aged 30-34 in europe should have completed tertiary education or equivalent. it is estimated that 35% of all jobs will require highly qualified workers by 2020, but only 26% of the workforce currently has such qualifications. member states therefore face a major challenge in reforming and modernising their national education systems and adapting them more closely to labour market needs. in this difficult economic and financial period, it is important for all member states to maintain adequate funding for education and to ensure that higher education is accessible to all. given the increasing mobility of eu citizens and its importance, it is necessary to ensure the mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications in all member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the situation of youth employment is very bad today in most member states of the european union, including lithuania, and it is only getting worse. unemployment affects all groups of young people, regardless of their level of education and training. however, young people with lower levels of education and training or with no work experience are at greater risk of not finding a job. in addition, many young people are at risk of becoming long-term unemployed. so we need to talk not only about what we will do in the future, but we need to decide what we are going to do now with the young people who are already out of work and who are already at risk of long-term unemployment. it is essential to ensure that future generations of young people entering the labour market have a high level of education and training that meets current and future needs. this means reducing the number of people who are out of school and ensuring that more young people are in vocational education. in addition, barriers between the education sector and the labour market need to be removed and the partnership between enterprises and the education sector strengthened. in the current crisis and budget cuts, young people do not need pretty words and promises, but effective and targeted investments. we must invest in people, in education, in vocational training, in lifelong learning, in jobs, because only then can we give young people the opportunity to find jobs that match their education and qualifications.
in writing. − the report emphasises the importance of eu countries in increasing the number of people with a degree. this is not the most important thing for lithuania, as my country has one of the highest university graduation rates in the eu. lithuania also exceeds the eu average in terms of the number of students per thousand inhabitants compared to the total population (lithuania 73.21; eu 52.8). the priority should be to improve the quality and application of what is taught in our universities. i strongly support the rapporteur's view that university study programmes should respond to the real needs of the labour market and enable graduates to find employment in their field of expertise. according to a january media survey, 32% of lithuanian employers do not agree that people with higher education qualifications have the necessary skills for work. financing of high quality education is a problem in lithuania. although almost 10% of the eu structural funds allocated to lithuania are allocated to higher education, research and innovation, the funding per student in lithuania is one of the lowest in the eu the funding per student in lithuania is about half the eu average. educational reforms are necessary, and it is also important that both students and academics are actively involved in the process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the creation of a digital single market is one of the key objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. a competitive digital single market would remove all remaining barriers to cross-border e-services, contribute to employment, sustainable economic growth, in particular in the area of smes, and allow for the modernisation of public administration and the reduction of the cost of public services. the ict sector directly generates about 5% of the eu's gdp, worth over €660 billion a year, but its potential is not fully exploited. citizens have so far made little use of cross-border electronic commerce, as they do not feel safe due to the legislation in force in different countries, especially in cases of compensation. there are also a number of administrative barriers to business which lead to additional costs, such as the different status of e-accounts, the requirements in different member states and the difficulties arising from the different regulation of e-signatures. i support the commission's 2011-2015 european egovernment plan, the successful implementation of which in the member states would allow for the modernisation and cost reduction of european and national public administrations, and therefore the implementation of this plan in the member states should be closely monitored and assessed annually by the commission, with the objectives of the digital agenda and annual reports to the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it would be in the interests of the citizens of the european union to remove all obstacles to the provision of crossborder e-services and to avoid distortions of competition in a competitive digital single market. e-government covers the tools and systems provided by information and communication technologies to deliver better public services to citizens and businesses. the information and communication technologies (ict) sector plays a major role in supporting the balance between eu industrial policy, innovation, growth, competitiveness and trade. the contribution of ict to overall productivity growth is very high. ict can therefore play a major role in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the areas of employment, sustainable economic and productivity growth, empowerment of citizens in research and technological development, energy, innovation and environmental protection, and in addressing major societal challenges. furthermore, remote computing resources services are an economic and ecological measure aimed at improving the performance of public and private companies' computing activities and reducing the costs of data processing and storage. however, the rules for the issue of electronic invoices are not uniform and the benefits of these rules are still not widely exploited. competitive digital single market measures are therefore necessary to ensure the successful deployment of ultra-fast broadband and telecommunications networks in all eu regions and to eliminate disparities in the level of infrastructure deployment within and between member states in order to ensure the demographic sustainability of sparsely populated regions.
in writing. − with the increasing use of broadband internet and the rise of e-commerce and other digital network services, the public sector cannot be left behind. the european commission's initiative to simplify the use of electronic signatures for eu citizens with links to several member states is essential. on the other hand, member states themselves have a long way to go to make electronic services accessible and efficient not only to citizens of other countries but also, and above all, to their own citizens.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the use of electronic services (electronic public administration services) in lithuania is 23%, which is significantly lower than the eu average of 41%. the same applies to internet use in lithuania, which is 54%, compared to the eu-27 average of 70%. in recent years, a large amount of money has been allocated to the development and improvement of electronic services in lithuania from the eu structural funds and the national budget. as the report notes, an important objective of the digital agenda for europe is to promote transparent and sustainable e-government. this is a sensitive objective and i believe that lithuania is interested in promoting digital technologies. the modernisation of the public administration sector in lithuania is essential. however, we should have clear priorities: it is not possible to successfully develop e-government structures until the real power is transparent and sustainable. good management of day-to-day decisions is one of the conditions for effective electronic services. the report rightly notes that electronic services for business are more advanced than those for citizens. however, the problem of the high technological gap between urban and rural areas is not mentioned. this should be reflected in an effective digital agenda for europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because security, stability and development in the whole sahel region are of paramount importance to the european union. the sahel is actively engaged in the fight against terrorism through policies of development, social justice, strengthening the rule of law and integration. however, a coup d'état on the night of 21-22 march 2012 overthrew malian president amadou toumani touré and ended a long democratic process that had begun more than two decades earlier. the proliferation of weapons from libya, the drug trade, high unemployment and poverty are contributing to the destabilisation of the entire region. the country is also facing renewed fighting between government forces and rebels in the north, which has displaced more than 200,000 people since january this year. others have fled to neighboring countries, where severe drought has caused food shortages in recent years. moreover, child soldiers are being recruited into battle. the sahel region is thus facing the worst humanitarian crisis in the last 20 years. the malian people have been subject to numerous human rights violations, particularly in the rebel-held northern regions. millions of people are severely malnourished and over 175 000 children suffer from severe malnutrition. we need to offer local people economic opportunities, alternatives to the criminal economy. a framework agreement should be signed, providing for actions capable of restoring constitutional order.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the changes taking place in burma present important opportunities for improving relations between the european union and burma (myanmar). on 1 april 2012, burma held by-elections for 40 seats in the pyithu hluttaw, the lower house of parliament, and these by-elections, which were considered free and fair by the international community, are an indication that burma (myanmar) is moving towards democratic change. the invitation and participation of foreign observers and journalists, including the representative of the european parliament, in the elections demonstrates the determination of the government of burma (myanmar) to continue the reform process, which should be sustainable and irreversible. in addition, in its first year of office, the government of president thein sein made more progress towards democracy than in any of its previous decades. finally, the government has taken action to address concerns about projects that may be environmentally and socially harmful, and has taken steps to increase civil liberties in the country by granting greater freedom of information and expression. the developments in burma are thus welcomed by the member states of the european union. however, policy decisions at the highest level still do not match the limited institutional and technical capabilities on the ground. the changes are slowly affecting the lives of most burmese citizens as they continue to face problems related to high poverty, high debt, lack of employment and lack of social services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. back in 2000, at the united nations millennium summit, 189 nations around the world adopted the millennium development goals, which they committed to achieving by 2015. these goals include halving global poverty by 2015, reducing by two thirds the under-5 mortality rate, reducing by three quarters the maternal mortality rate, halting the spread of hiv/aids and other communicable diseases, ensuring sustainable economic and environmental development, and so on. the european external action service established by the treaty of lisbon should contribute effectively to the achievement of these objectives, and therefore, with three years to go until the ipa deadline, there is a need to strengthen the coordination of action by the eu, the member states and the partner countries and to combine development action with its effectiveness and efficiency. i agree that the eu external action service needs to be strengthened and that its mandate and competence in the field of development cooperation should be clearly defined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the reform of the european union's external aid should help to show how aid helps to improve the lives of people living in poverty. the main objective of the delegation of power and the further reform of the commission's external aid management is to speed up and make more robust the financial management procedures and to improve the quality of assistance to partner countries. in addition, the delegation of power should be tailored to the system of providing all relevant information at member state level on where the agencies intend to spend their budgetary resources, thereby improving the targeting of the assistance and allowing the identification of resource gaps and funding opportunities for individual member states. the commission should complement the criteria and improve the procedures for assessing the quality of the projects financed, in order to improve the quality of the aid granted and to minimise the implementation of non-productive projects. the commission should also take all necessary measures to address the shortcomings in the supervisory and control systems, in particular at delegation level. in addition, the commission and the member states should make greater efforts to strengthen the links between the european union delegations and bilateral agencies, government partners and other development actors such as expert groups, universities, foundations, non-governmental organisations and regional institutions, as closer links would help to increase the transferability of mandates and the comparative advantages of different actors at national level.
in writing. − i voted for this report on women and climate change because there is still a lot of work to be done in this area, as the gender dimension in climate policy is still not integrated. in some regions, nearly 70% of all working women are engaged in agriculture and produce up to 90% of the harvest of some crops, but they are hardly represented in budgetary considerations and climate change action. in addition, drought and water shortages caused by climate change are forcing women to work harder to secure water, food and energy, and young people are often leaving school to help their mothers with these tasks. it should be recognised that climate change is exacerbating gender discrimination, among other catastrophic consequences. stopping dangerous climate change must therefore be the top priority of the european union's internal and external policies. unfortunately, there is still a lack of data and gender-based statistics that could be used for research in transport, energy and agricultural policy. more data on climate change could help to better understand and assess the gender dimension of climate change. the commission should therefore step up its efforts in this area and aim to integrate gender equality into the european union's climate change policy as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because biodiversity is essential for the survival of human life and for the well-being of societies because of the ecosystem functions it provides, and payment for ecosystem functions is a promising innovative financial instrument for biodiversity conservation. the european union has not achieved its 2010 biodiversity target of preventing biodiversity loss. at present, the loss of this species is reducing global gdp by 3 percent each year. almost 65% of habitat types and 52% of species listed in the annexes to the habitats directive have an unsatisfactory conservation status. climate change is also a threat to habitats and species. moreover, more than 11 000 alien species have already entered the european union, of which at least 15% are invasive and destroy biodiversity. measures are therefore needed to preserve nature and ecosystem functions for future generations, with a higher political priority for biodiversity. the main objective of the european union's europe 2020 strategy in the field of biodiversity and the global biodiversity commitments should also be achieved. it is also important that other multiannual financial programmes provide for adequate funding and the value of biodiversity and ecosystem functions in the economy. the conservation of biological diversity is a shared challenge that, with sufficient financial resources and political will, must be met with the participation and commitment of a wide range of stakeholders.
in writing. − biodiversity is an essential element of eu environmental policy, and one which requires a lot of attention, especially at a time when economic activity is being prioritised over biodiversity in many countries. however, i would like to draw attention to one point: when we talk about biological protection in particular and about integrating environmental policy as a whole into eu law, we must bear in mind a number of principles. this is proportionality and legal clarity. the principle of integrating biodiversity protection can only be achieved by ensuring that legislation (especially in the field of environmental protection) remains clear and understandable.
in writing. − the rapporteur rightly noted that the european union had failed to achieve its 2010 biodiversity target; damaged ecosystems should be given greater political attention. lithuania's level of biodiversity is significantly higher than in other eu countries. forests cover 32% of lithuania's area, and lithuania has more than 20 000 and 1 800 plant species. however, according to a study by the lithuanian nature foundation, agriculture and tourism have recently had a very negative impact on biodiversity in lithuania. the most threatened are coastal and forest ecosystems. it is good that the rapporteur has mentioned biodiversity as an important economic factor. a recent study has shown that biodiversity loss can have 'great economic consequences for the baltic sea region'. in order to protect its biodiversity, lithuania needs to inform the public and regulate agriculture more strictly. lithuania should also make greater efforts to establish special protected areas (such as state-protected reserves, reserves and heritage sites) and ecological protection zones. at present, only 15.3% of lithuania's territory is covered by the protected sites protection system, which is too low a figure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are essential to ensure a quality of life and to preserve the stability of ecosystems. the current sixth environment action programme, the first adopted under the legislative co-decision procedure, will expire on 22 july 2012. over the decade, the sixth environmental action programme has provided a comprehensive framework for environmental policy planning, consolidated and substantially supplemented environmental legislation and reinforced its legitimacy, and contributed to increased accountability. however, progress towards the objectives set out in the sixth environment action programme has been uneven. the eu member states and the commission have not always acted in accordance with this programme there are still wide differences between member states in the quality of the environment and public health. in addition, there were a number of inaccuracies in the programme that needed to be corrected. the remaining major environmental problems can therefore have significant consequences if they are not addressed. urgent action is therefore needed to help make the transition to a sustainable future. the seventh environment action programme should be adopted, which should be a comprehensive framework to address persistent and emerging environmental and sustainability challenges, taking into account measures already implemented and planned. it is important to focus on the implementation and strengthening of environmental legislation, the integration of environmental objectives into all sectoral policies and the international environmental dimension.
in writing. regional aviation, like other modes of transport, is one of the most important enablers of citizens' mobility. regional aviation and support for the construction of regional airports, especially where the population is dispersed, should therefore be a priority of the union strategy and union support in this regard. more connections and increased mobility of citizens can significantly expand interregional contacts, affect tourism development and give a boost to the economic development of regions on the eu's periphery. air connections facilitate the movement of people and goods more quickly, so the promotion of regional aviation will certainly contribute to economic stimulation and the development of related services. this is of vital importance in the economic crisis europe is facing today. in the 21st century, when we are building a modern europe, we cannot allow regions to exist without regional airports, and unfortunately there are still such regions, for example in central and eastern europe. the commission therefore considers that the aid granted to ryanair and ams is compatible with the internal market. local airports should receive adequate support not only from national authorities but should be eligible for funding from union funds and the european commission should treat this task as one of the most important in the new strategic programming framework. the objective should be clear: sustainable territorial development of the regions.
mr president, i would like to touch on a question regarding the report on the european institute for gender equality. paragraph 3 proposes the merger of the european institute for gender equality and the european union agency for fundamental rights. gender equality is a founding value of the european union and has implications broader than simply those of human rights. i have to say that these two bodies have completely different objectives. the institute for gender equality was planned over more than 10 years. the initiative for it came from this parliament, and after long preparations it started work in 2010. i have not heard anything to suggest that its work has been inefficient. the main argument is that of saving resources. in this house we often speak about greater integration in the european union, in order to bring it closer to our citizens. agencies, institutes, other eu bodies and the member states all help us to deliver the message of the european union. to have more europe in every member state is our goal. these bodies contribute a great deal to both eu and national policies. if we are concerned with saving resources, we need to talk about reform in a broader sense, systematically, and not only merely in terms of merging some of the eu institutions or agencies. when we talk about savings, we can talk about strasbourg and about other things, but money is not always what is at issue. there are certain things that we deliver to our citizens, and i think that having this kind of agency in member states is crucial. i call on you to vote today not to merge these institutions.
in writing. i would like to ask my colleague to vote in favour of the report adopted by the committee on budgetary control on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) for 2010. i would also like to ask my colleagues to support the amendment tabled on behalf of the socialist group, which proposes that the proposal to merge the european institute for gender equality and the european agency for fundamental rights be deleted from the resolution annexed to parliament's decision. in view of the importance of this institute in promoting the implementation of the gender equality dimension in the policies of the european union and its member states, as well as the efforts to ensure the implementation of gender equality in the labour markets of the member states and the awareness raising of citizens on this issue, we cannot vote for the abolition of this institute in the future. gender equality is one of the european union's fundamental values, reaffirmed in the europe 2020 strategy and in all its implementing documents. progressive thinking should prevent us from even considering such a possibility. the eige's mandate is unique compared to that of the european agency for fundamental rights in that it concerns the control of de facto equality between women and men, which means the practical equality between women and men in all areas of life enshrined in eu policies. the fundamental rights agency's mandate, on the other hand, is related to legal equality.
in writing. i would like to express my disagreement with the proposal to merge the european institute for gender equality with the european union agency for fundamental rights, which is included in the 2010 discharge. this proposal is based on the need to save money and avoid duplication of work. i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that the objectives of the two institutions differ. the institute was created precisely because some of the gender equality tasks were not being fulfilled by the institutions in place at the time. the european institute for gender equality has a unique mission: coordinating research data and information, centralising and disseminating information, networking, raising the profile of equality between women and men, etc. the institute was only established in 2007 and the recruitment of staff has also recently ended. so when the institute is finally able to perform its functions effectively, i think it is irrational and unjustified to reform it.
in writing. - i support the proposal to amend article 9 (5) of regulation no 1225/2009 as it is contrary to the wto anti-dumping agreement. i welcome the fact that the international trade committee has applied a simplified procedure to allow the eu to comply with its agreement with china and to repeal article 1225/2009 as being contrary to the wto agreement.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i support the necessary clarification of the measures to combat subsidised imports from non-eu countries. the report recommends that the eu's anti-dumping measures be brought into line with the recommendations of the wto dispute settlement body. this will help to protect our companies better against unfair competition from certain foreign companies, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european union as member of wto respects its commitments to wto agreements. we regret that european legislation was not conforming to them and welcome the modifications. this case is particularly important concerning china which is a huge trade partner for eu, but unfortunately is not completely governed on market-economy principles. current european rules impose strict duties on individual chinese exporters, who are already disadvantaged in their own country by market regulation. i support modifications brought to the european legislation on this topic, because i consider the efforts that european union should make to support non-state economical actors in non-market economies, such as china is important.
in writing. - i support the proposal to repeal regulation (ec) no 1342/2007. in view of the accession of the russian federation to the wto, the regulation and the quotas for imports into the eu of steel originating in russia should be abolished. i am pleased that the eu can expect to gain greater access to the russian market once russia joins the wto and adheres to the rules-based multilateral trading system. any obstacles to bilateral trade in steel products should be kept to a minimum and applied only in accordance with wto rules governing tariffs, trade defence measures, technical standards, special customs and customs clearance procedures, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing council regulation (ec) no 1342/2007 on the administration of certain restrictions on imports of certain steel products from the russian federation. the russian federation became a wto member on 16 december 2011 and as of the date of russia's accession to the wto, the eu is not entitled to continue to apply steel import quotas. the eu can be expected to gain greater access to the russian market once russia adheres to the rules-based multilateral trading system of the wto. the european commission estimates that the value of additional exports in the iron and steel sector will be around eur 107 million per year. it also envisages that the export duties on ferrous scrap, which will be reduced from 15% currently to 5% five years after the date of accession, and the gas prices adapted to local industrial customers in russia will increase the competitiveness of the eu steel sector.
in writing. − the eu welcomes very much the fact russian federation has joined wto. it is big step forward which means significant progress in russia's move towards market economy and worldwide trade without barriers. wto rules forbid protectionism and unfair trade practices (such as dumping, etc.) what makes the economy more open, liberal and competitive. i voted in favor of this report, because russia's membership has even greater importance, since this country is finally moving a big and long awaited step towards liberal evolution. russia's membership in wto has big importance for the eu as russian federation is the largest eu trade partner in many sectors. eu respects its wto free trade commitments and welcomes removal of existing import quotas for several steel products from russian federation. as far as steel sector represents important part not only in eu import, but also export, we envisage bilateral benefits for eu-russia trade system, significant growth and increase of competitiveness.
in writing. - i support the draft regulation. the publication of the electronic version of the official journal on an equal footing with the current publication of the official journal is a welcome reform that will increase access to eu legislation for citizens, increase legal certainty and reduce the cost of access for consumers and businesses. at present, almost all eu legislation is available only in electronic form, and the fact that electronic versions are not legally binding is unacceptable and creates uncertainty about the exact content of eu legislation in the eur-lex database.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council regulation on the publication of the electronic version of the official journal of the european union. as you know, the commission presented its proposal on 4 april 2011 with the aim of strengthening legal certainty by broadening access to eu law and enabling everyone to rely on the electronic edition of the official journal of the european union (oj) as the official, authentic, up-to-date and complete version. the proposal therefore provides for the publication of the electronic version to be equivalent to the publication of the official journal in force. however, in exceptional and short-term cases of unforeseen disruption to the publication of the electronic version, the printed version would have legal effect.
in writing. − i support the proposal to emphasise the importance of regional airports and their contribution to the eu transport network, thus promoting the creation of a strong, competitive and economically viable eu aviation area. the movement of people and goods across regions and the smoother functioning of the eu's single market are key drivers of economic growth in the eu. airports play an important role in enhancing territorial, economic and social cohesion in the member states by connecting regions. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement with ryanair. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams. one of the main recommendations i see is to encourage the sector to develop a diversified transport offering through the sale of continuous travel tickets for use in both the rail and air transport sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of regional airports and air connectivity in the european union, as regional airports and air connectivity are of vital importance not only because they are vital transport hubs for the movement of people and goods between regions and the smooth functioning of the eu single market, but also because they are in themselves the most important driver of economic growth. together, they push the boundaries of traditional trade routes and make a significant contribution to the prosperity of the cities and regions they serve. these infrastructures and services are important for people living outside the core urban areas and for the eu as a whole. the european commission tends to focus on the major major airports when proposing legislation in the field of aviation. this report seeks to restore balance and to highlight the often unintentional but disproportionate impact of certain eu legislation on regional airports and air services. in addition, ways should be sought to improve the operational and economic efficiency of regional airports and air connectivity services, as well as to ensure a better experience for passengers using these infrastructures and services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. the commission is responsible for the implementation of the eu budget and the management of programmes, and it is therefore essential that, in this difficult economic and financial crisis, the commission sets an example of good public governance. good governance is a key factor in maintaining citizens' trust in the european union. the ongoing financial and budgetary crisis in the member states also poses risks to the union budget, in particular financial risks linked to loans to member states. i support the european parliament's calls for the commission to present an action plan for priority actions such as closely monitoring financial engineering instruments, improving and strengthening accountability, reconsidering the use of pre-financing more frequently and creating an effective sanction mechanism in cohesion policy.
in writing. − as a reminder, by granting discharge, the ep recognises that the institution or agency has implemented its budget properly. it is clear that europe is facing a serious budgetary and financial crisis which may undermine confidence in the european union and it is essential that the union and the european commission, as the executors of the union budget, set an example in ensuring good public governance. more than 90% of all errors were identified not by the commission but by the member states' authorities and final beneficiaries. i voted in favour of the discharge for the european commission's budget, which represents more than 80% of all eu expenditure. however, i believe that the european union, in the current situation, needs a rigorous, independent and effective external audit more than ever. there are many problematic questions to which citizens of the european union must have answers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i welcome all the special reports from the court of auditors which show the positive aspects of the commission's work, but also the problems the commission faces in implementing the eu budget and managing eu programmes. i agree with the conclusions and recommendations of the court of auditors contained in these reports and with the calls on the commission and the member states to take full account of these recommendations. as a member of the s&d group responsible for the consultation of the olaf committee on budgetary control, i would like to draw particular attention to the court of auditors' special report no 2/2011 further measures in the light of special report no 1/2005 on european anti-fraud management. the court is very concerned to note that the average duration of olaf's case management is more than two years, which indicates that problems remain with olaf's management system and the allocation of tasks. olaf and eurojust signed a cooperation agreement in 2008 to combat fraud more effectively, but the number of cases olaf has transferred to eurojust (five in 2008 and one in 2009) shows that cooperation between the two services is not effective. i agree that it is necessary to improve olaf's governance structure and to reduce the time it takes to deal with cases, so that financial crime and fraud can be tackled more effectively across the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the court's special reports in the context of the commission's discharge procedure for the implementation of the 2010 budget, since, in accordance with article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the commission implements the budget and manages the programmes in accordance with the provisions of article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in cooperation with the member states under its own responsibility and in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. the court's special reports provide information on key issues relating to the use of funds, which is therefore important for parliament's role as discharge authority. parliament's comments on the court of auditors' special reports form an integral part of the abovementioned decision of 10 may 2012 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section iii commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the european parliament. i welcome the rather positive evaluations of the court and agree with all its conclusions and recommendations. it is important that parliament takes due account of the court's recommendations, in particular by improving procurement procedures, reviewing procurement controls to ensure the most competitive prices for the services and goods offered and the most efficient use of eu taxpayers' money. as i did last year, i am in favour of parliament having only one seat in the same place as the other institutions of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section i european parliament, as the court's audit found that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation were satisfactorily applied by all the institutions in the management of administrative expenditure in 2010 and that 93 per cent of the 58 audited payments were free from material error. on 16 june 2011, the secretary-general stated that he had reasonable assurance that parliament's budget had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures in place had adequately ensured the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. the court found that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs presented the financial position of the edfs for 2010 correctly in all material respects and that there were no material errors in the accounts for revenue and liabilities. the problem of the shortage of workers is a concern. i welcome the fact that a financial management toolkit has been distributed to give project implementing organisations more knowledge about financial management and compliance. as regards the court of auditors' special report no 11/2010, i agree with the audit findings and the useful recommendations contained therein. i believe that the gsp is a very valuable aid instrument that can increase the autonomy and accountability of the governments of the beneficiary countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors considers that coding errors are still frequent. it is noted that the court concluded that, although these errors did not have a significant impact on the 2010 annual accounts, they could affect the reliability of the financial management data of the europeaid directorate-general. the court found that there were no significant errors in the accounts for revenue and liabilities, but was very concerned that there were too many non-quantifiable errors affecting the obligations to comply with the tendering rules and the legal deadlines for the conclusion of contracts. it is worrying that there was an increase in projects with unsatisfactory results in 2010 (12,6% compared to 11% in 2009) and that commitments errors are still very common in projects under decentralised management.
in writing. − i voted against giving the council discharge for 2010. i take a negative view of the council's refusal to participate in the formal meetings of the committee on budgetary control relating to discharge. furthermore, the council did not submit in writing all the documents necessary for the discharge, including the full internal audit for 2010 and the annual activity reports. financial transparency of the activities of the eu institutions is essential to maintain citizens' trust in the eu. i support the european parliament's call on the secretary-general of the council to provide as soon as possible detailed answers to the questions raised in the european parliament's report and to provide the relevant documents so that the committee on budgetary control can examine the implementation of the council's 2010 budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as, in the light of the results of the audit carried out, the court concluded in its 2010 report that there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2010. i agree with the provision that a thorough assessment of the monitoring and control systems applied in the council should be carried out, similar to the assessments carried out by the court of justice, the european ombudsman's office and the office of the european data protection supervisor in preparing the court of auditors' report for the financial year 2010. european taxpayers have every right to expect full public scrutiny of the entire union budget, including all funds managed independently by its individual institutions and agencies. it is wrong for the council to consider that it is the only institution of the union not to be held accountable for the way it uses the funds allocated to it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the court of justice's discharge for 2010. i welcome the court's conclusion that no significant errors were detected in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure. i agree with the court's concern about the dramatic increase in the number of cases opened (631 new cases opened in 2010), although the number of cases closed remains unchanged.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the registrar of the court of justice of the european union is hereby certified that the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2010 has been implemented. the budget of the court of justice is purely administrative, i.e. 75% of the budget is allocated to the human resources of the institutions and 25% is for buildings, movable property, equipment and miscellaneous expenditure relating to the activities. it is welcome that the court of justice has provided detailed information on staff management in its annual activity report and that it has provided answers to parliament's additional questions in this field. the progress made is considered to be positive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. i welcome the fact that the court has clarified its code of conduct for members, which provides that declarations of financial interests of members must be published online. it is very important that after the restructuring, the court has reduced the annual cost of security services by eur 500 000, ensuring more efficient service provision and better risk control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 (section v court of auditors), as the secretary-general of the court of auditors is hereby certified that the court's budget for the financial year 2010 has been discharged. i welcome the action taken by the court of auditors, at the request of parliament, to improve its role and broaden its scope and impact, to make its opinions and reports more effective and useful, and its systems and procedures more reliable, and thus to strengthen the interaction between the two institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the economic and social committee (hereinafter referred to as the eesc). i welcome the court's recommendations to limit its budget increase as much as possible in the coming years and to finance new and ongoing activities, in particular by using the savings. i support the call for an urgent review of all areas of activity to ensure that all expenditure is effective, and in particular to take account of the court's comments on the reimbursement of travel expenses for eesc members and on restricted public procurement procedures.
in writing. − i abstained, as the eesc is called upon to limit its budget increase as much as possible in the coming years and to finance new and ongoing activities, in particular by using the savings. it also stresses the urgent need for the eesc to carry out a thorough review of expenditure across all areas of activity to ensure that all expenditure is used to its full potential, in order to identify savings that will reduce the burden on the budget during this period of austerity. the high number of flights of eesc members with invoiced bills in 2010 and the long or medium distance flights (around 2 000 km) are also impressive. the eesc is therefore invited to provide a detailed list of all flights for which invoices were issued in 2010, indicating the airport of departure, stops en route, destination, duration of the flight and the costs borne by european taxpayers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the committee of the regions' discharge for 2010. i welcome the court's conclusion that there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies in 2010. i support the european parliament's recommendation to limit future budget increases to the absolute minimum and to finance new or expanded activities mainly from the funds saved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section vii committee of the regions, as the secretary-general of the committee of the regions is hereby certified that the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2010 has been discharged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european ombudsman for 2010. i welcome the rather positive evaluations of the court and agree with all its conclusions and recommendations. it is important that the ombudsman takes due account of the court's recommendations and the provisions drawn up on the procedures for the recruitment of temporary staff, and that he endeavours to increase the number and proportion of inquiries completed in less than a year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 (section viii european ombudsman), as the european ombudsman is certified as having implemented the ombudsman's budget for the financial year 2010 and the court of auditors found in its annual report for 2010 that the court of auditors has no observations on the european ombudsman.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european data protection supervisor (hereinafter referred to as 'the edps') for the financial year 2010. it is very important that the court did not find any significant errors in the 2010 payments. i agree with the calls for the edps to base his budget on his real needs and to strive for better budget execution. in view of the extensive changes in the staff structure in 2010, the edps is invited to inform the european parliament of the performance of the new staff.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010 (title ix european data protection supervisor) as the european data protection supervisor is hereby certified that the budget for the financial year 2010 has been discharged and the court of auditors has concluded, in the light of the audit results, that there were no material errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2010.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. eu expenditure on decentralised agencies amounted to over eur 620 million in 2010, and it is therefore essential that these agencies ensure the efficiency of their expenditure and the transparency of its use. in its conclusions, the court emphasises that the agencies have problems in using their budgetary resources in a timely manner and that the funds are allocated to projects that are not linked to a specific financial year. i agree with the european parliament's call for the commission to implement the court of auditors' recommendation on the use of the zero-based budget in the budgeting of agencies as soon as possible and for the future budget of each agency to be determined not by reference to the amounts it has received but to the individual needs of each agency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2010. the activities of the agencies of the european union, financial management and control. the decisions taken by the council over the past few years on the establishment and allocation of funds have led to the high cost and inefficiency of the agencies, which are set up without any consideration of their effectiveness, inter alia, because they are located in remote and costly locations. in this period of crisis, in particular, the question of the added value of agencies needs to be addressed quickly and seriously in order to avoid unnecessary and wholly unnecessary costs and to be able to respond adequately to the real needs of the union and its citizens, to address concerns and to address doubts about the credibility of our institutions. the union and its member states cannot ask union citizens to save if they do not do so themselves. the union institutions, including agencies, must make a fair saving, while also requiring savings from citizens who are taxpayers contributing to the union budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. i agree with the court's recommendations that the translation centre should take measures to stop its budget surplus, which is increasing every year (in 2009 this surplus amounted to eur 24 million). the eu should not increase the budgets of agencies during this period of financial crisis and should even consider reducing the eu contribution to the agencies' budgets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharging the centre's budget for the financial year 2010 as the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union is hereby confirmed as having discharged the centre's budget for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the centre for the translation of the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2010 are hereby approved. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on their basis are legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european centre for the development of vocational training. i support the calls for the centre to base its budget on real needs and to use appropriations appropriately, as carrying them over to the next year is contrary to the principle of annual recurrence. i welcome the initiative taken by cedefop in 2010 to use the online recruitment tool recon recruitment online, which will make the recruitment process at the centre faster, more efficient and more transparent, and i would encourage all agencies to use this procedure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharging the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2010, as the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training is hereby certified that the budget of the centre for the financial year 2010 has been discharged and the accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2010 are cleared. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european police college (hereinafter referred to as 'cepol') for the financial year 2010. cepol is concerned by the continuous transfer of a large proportion of the appropriations, which violates the principle of annual periodicity. the court found that the 2010 appropriations had been used to cover the 2009 expenditure. i support the european parliament's call for cepol to take measures to prevent similar shortcomings from recurring in the future and to take effective measures to improve budget planning and monitoring.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the financial year 2010 of the european police college, as the director of the european police college is hereby confirmed as having discharged the budget for the financial year 2010 of the college and the accounts for the financial year 2010 of the european police college are hereby approved. for the first time since the college became an agency, the court of auditors delivered an unconditional opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in its report on the college's annual accounts for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors' report on the college's multiannual action plan 2010-2014 confirmed that the college is making progress towards the objectives set out in this plan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency for 2010. i support the european parliament's calls for the agency to improve its annual work programme by including specific and measurable objectives, to review its internal control system and to review all administrative procedures in its work and to increase transparency in recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2010, as the director of the community fisheries control agency is hereby confirmed as having implemented the budget of the agency for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2010 are hereby approved. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european aviation safety agency for 2010. in its conclusions, the court noted that there are shortcomings in the staff selection procedures that threaten the transparency of recruitment and that the agency should take measures to address these shortcomings. the european parliament has made a number of calls for the agency to link the work programme and financial forecasts in its operating budget, to improve monitoring and reporting of performance, to attach to each year's budget a report on unused appropriations carried over from the previous year, explaining why these funds were not used and how and when they will be used.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2010, as the director of the european aviation safety agency is hereby confirmed as having discharged the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2010 are hereby approved. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency ('the agency') for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) for 2010. in its recommendation, the court notes that the ecdc needs to address the issue of high carry-overs, which have a negative impact on budget implementation. given that the budget of the ecdc was increased by 17,5% in 2010, the centre should make a more efficient use of its appropriations. i agree that more attention should be paid to absorption capacity and to the call for the agency to reduce its annual budget if it does not take appropriate action to address this problem.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharging the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2010, as the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control is hereby confirmed as having discharged the budget of the centre for the financial year 2010 and as being in favour of closing the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the transactions reported are legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european chemicals agency for 2010. in its report, the european parliament identifies a number of shortcomings in the management of the agency and calls for them to be corrected. i support the calls for improvement of the agency's control system, strengthening of financial procedures, action plans and risk assessments. in view of the identified shortcomings, it is important that the agency further improve its planning and monitoring of public procurement and budget implementation, its planning of human resources activities and projects, and its coherence in case management.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2010, as the executive director of the european chemicals agency is hereby confirmed as having discharged the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 and as having approved the closure of the accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. − i did not support the proposal to postpone the discharge decision for the european environment agency for 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. i agree that the european parliament's report contains important recommendations for the agency, such as improving communication methods, increasing the agency's transparency and public interest in its work, ensuring that the budget is used effectively, addressing the identified shortcomings in recruitment procedures, adopting an action plan and publishing a declaration of interests on the website in order to prevent possible conflicts of interest. however, i do not agree that these shortcomings should delay the ep's discharge of the agency's 2010 budget, as similar shortcomings have been identified in a number of other agencies for which the european parliament has discharged the budget and called for the correction of the identified shortcomings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of postponing the decision to confirm to the executive director of the european environment agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 has been implemented and postponing the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2010 pending substantive responses to the critical comments and requests made and pending information on the actions to be taken.
in writing. − i did not support the proposal to postpone the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. i agree that the european parliament's report contains important recommendations for the agency, such as how to improve its budget management in order to reduce large amounts of carryovers, to draw attention to shortcomings in staff selection procedures and to launch a survey on possible conflicts of interest amongst the most prominent scientists, the board and the members of the commission. however, i do not agree that these shortcomings should delay the ep's discharge of the agency's 2010 budget, as similar shortcomings have been identified in a number of other agencies whose discharge has been approved by the european parliament and called for the correction of the identified shortcomings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of postponing the adoption of the decision confirming to the executive director of the european food safety authority that the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 has been implemented and postponing the closure of the accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2010 as six very important vat recommendations remain to be implemented and three of them have already been postponed for more than 12 months. the delay relates to the management of information security, the contract renewal process, the transparency of decision-making and the policy on document collection and processing, and the office is therefore invited to address these shortcomings without delay and to report to the discharge authorities on the results achieved. i also believe that product evaluation should not be based solely on industry data, but should also take due account of independent scientific literature published in peer-reviewed journals. particular care should be taken to ensure that industry is involved in the development of guidelines and evaluation methodologies which should not favour industry-funded studies on a hypothetical basis and which should be open, transparent and balanced. the authority should also focus on the public interest when taking independent decisions and taking into account all relevant data and information.
in writing. − i voted against the discharge for the 2010 budget of the european institute for gender equality. i did not support the proposal to consider merging the european institute for gender equality and the eu agency for fundamental rights in order to avoid duplication of work and reduce additional costs. as the proposal to merge the two agencies was accepted, i also voted against the discharge of the agency's entire 2010 budget. i think it is important that the eu keeps its commitment to having at least one eu agency in each member state, and i therefore oppose the proposal that lithuania lose the agency. i fully support the european parliament's proposals that savings and more efficient use of the eu budget are necessary, but this can also be done in other ways, such as by optimising public procurement procedures, allocating and using human resources more efficiently and promoting greater rationality and efficiency in spending.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amendment to this resolution tabled by three political groups, which would remove the call to merge the european institute for gender equality with the eu agency for fundamental rights. i think it is important to keep the institute as a separate agency in lithuania for two reasons. first, gender equality is an important political and moral issue in the european union. he deserves special attention. the threat is that the merger of these two institutions will simply make this issue disappear among other human rights issues. secondly, it is important that this institute should remain in lithuania. our relatively young democracy and conservative society needs the european union to emphasise gender equality in its work at the agency in vilnius. i am convinced that there is no need at this stage to interfere with the work of the institute, which has only recently started to function at full capacity and has therefore not yet had an opportunity to demonstrate its full potential effectively.
in writing. − i did not agree to postpone the discharge decision on the european medicines agency for 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. i agree that the european parliament's report contains important recommendations for the agency, such as taking action to correct identified deficiencies in procurement procedures, to approve or fully implement all actions identified in the audit reports, including the 2010 report, to centrally control and coordinate the development of the expert evaluation methodology, and to effectively resolve potential conflicts of interest. however, i do not agree that these shortcomings should delay the ep's discharge of the agency's 2010 budget, as similar shortcomings have been identified in a number of other agencies whose discharge has been approved by the european parliament and called for the correction of the identified shortcomings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of postponing the adoption of the decision on the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 and the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010. the court found the agency's accounts for 2010 to be reliable, legal and regular, but it did comment on transfers, it contracts and the payment systems for services provided by national authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2010 budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. i support the european parliament's recommendations to improve the agency's operational programming in order to reduce the level of transfers, to ensure the consistent implementation of the staff evaluation procedure, to strengthen its financial management and to implement as soon as possible the recommendations of the internal audit service, in particular on the management of grants and readiness for transfers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharging the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2010, as the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction is confirmed as having discharged the budget of the centre for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2010 are cleared. the court of auditors stated that it had received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder were legal and regular, but that the centre needed to strengthen its financial management. drug-related issues must be duly reflected in the new multiannual financial framework (2014-2020). the centre still needs to implement five key recommendations from the internal audit service's audits on grant management (2009) and on readiness for relocation (2008). the implementation of the three key recommendations has been postponed beyond the timeframe indicated in the centre's initial action plan. at the end of 2010, the centre implemented another recommendation and further action by the internal audit service is now expected to confirm the effective implementation of the recommendation. the centre shall take immediate action to remedy the situation and inform the discharge authority of the measures taken.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2010 budget of the european maritime safety agency. there are concerns about the fact that emsa is constantly transferring a large part of its allocations and that the agency's procurement procedures are not transparent. the absence of supporting data from emsa for the financing decision on the planned procurement activities may jeopardise the legality of this agency's decision. i support calls for the agency to include in its annual work programme (awp) clear information on the overall budgetary envelope for public procurement and the indicative number and types of contracts envisaged. it is also important that the agency implements as soon as possible 15 very important recommendations of the internal audit service, of which 8 were delayed by 6-12 months and one was rejected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution with observations, which forms an integral part of the discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2010, as the agency must apply the procurement procedures properly and ensure that its annual work programme contains adequate data on planned procurement. if the financial decision on the planned procurement activity is not duly substantiated by the underlying data, the legality of the agency's decision may be called into question. the agency has yet to implement the 15 most important recommendations of the internal audit service. 8 recommendations were delayed by 6-12 months and one recommendation was rejected. the first 11 'very important' recommendations concern the legal and financial decision-making process, human resource management and internal control standards, while the rejected recommendation concerns the responsibility for assessing the performance of the accounting officer's duties. the agency is invited to explain to the discharge authority the reasons for this refusal and to take action on the recommendations for delayed implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa) for 2010. the court of auditors' conclusion that the carry-over of appropriations represented 19% of the agency's total budget is a matter of concern. in addition, no progress has been made since last year in recovering the amount of eur 45 000 paid by the agency to the tax inspectorate of the host member state. i agree with the european parliament's recommendations that more attention should be paid to absorption capacity, to addressing shortcomings in staff selection procedures, and to increasing transparency of operations, including the transparency of estimates and the activities of those responsible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2010, as the executive director of the european network and information security agency is hereby confirmed in his capacity as discharge officer for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the financial year 2010 and the closure of the accounts of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2010 is hereby approved. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european network and information security agency for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the law and in the correct manner. the increased risks within the agency related to its planning, accounting, budget implementation, it development and management, business continuity, stakeholder relations, external relations, as well as impact assessment and analysis, require the agency to take urgent measures to mitigate the risks associated with those issues. the agency implemented four key recommendations related to the 2009 audit of public procurement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge for the european railway agency for 2010. the european railway agency (era) is concerned that it is carrying over a large number of appropriations to the next year, thus breaching the principle of annual periodicity. the agency's budget increased by 14,9% in 2010, and a high proportion of the appropriations carried over or cancelled means that the agency is unable to manage the substantial increase in budget. in addition, 2010 saw the cancellation and postponement of public procurement, as well as recurrent delays in the execution of payments and substantial changes to the work programme. i support the european parliament's recommendations to address the problem of carry-overs as soon as possible, to ensure efficient procurement procedures, to establish a common recruitment procedure, to draw up a multiannual action plan with tasks and key performance indicators and to implement other recommendations made by the court of auditors and the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution with observations, which forms an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2010, given the importance of making the best use of budgetary resources in a time of financial crisis. in addition, the commission and the agency are invited to analyse and identify the real budgetary needs of the agency in order to enable it to carry out all the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european training foundation for 2010. i support the european parliament's recommendations that the agency should be more precise in its budgetary procedures in order to avoid a high number of budgetary transfers and, if necessary, to carry out the transfers by obtaining the consent of the management board as required by the fund's financial regulation. the fund should also respect the commitment to provide a balance of payment deadlines for the implementation of budgetary commitments entered into in the previous financial year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the european training foundation for the financial year 2010, as the director of the european training fund is hereby confirmed as having discharged the fund's budget for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the european training fund for the financial year 2010 are hereby approved. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. however, they call on the fund to focus on effective reporting with the fund's board and key stakeholders, giving them the opportunity to scrutinise the fund's activities. the fund is also encouraged to implement other recommendations of previous vat audits. the foundation's annual activity report recognises that it has implemented 16 revised good governance standards established under the internal control standards framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2010 budget of the european agency for safety and health at work. i support the european parliament's calls for the agency to base its budget on its real needs and to make good use of the appropriations allocated to it. i welcome the fact that the european agency for safety and health at work, in its 2010 ilo, has listed the data in detail, comparing one year to another, so that we can better assess the agency's performance. i think other agencies should follow this practice. i agree with the calls for the agency to implement the recommendations of the vat audit as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2010, as the director of the european agency for safety and health at work is hereby confirmed as having discharged the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 and as having approved the closure of the accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that all the operations carried out have been carried out in accordance with the law and in the correct manner. the automatic submission of the agency's annual internal audit report prepared by the internal audit service (ias) to the discharge authority at the initiative of the agency is welcomed. this could be an indicator of transparency and a good practice example for other agencies to follow. vat audit reports often help to further improve processes and tools that reduce or manage the agency's risks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the euratom supply agency for 2010. the agency's situation is exceptional compared to other eu agencies, as it has not received any subsidies to cover its operating costs since its establishment in 2008 and all the costs incurred by the agency in the implementation of its budget have been covered by the commission. the agency does not have a separate budget and is effectively integrated into the commission, although this is contrary to its statute. i therefore welcome the decision to include a specific budget line for this agency in the general budget of the european union for 2012 and to allocate eur 98 000 from the general budget of the european union for its activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2010, as the director-general of the euratom supply agency is hereby confirmed as having discharged the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2010 are hereby approved. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the transactions underlying them are legal and regular. in 2010, the agency did not receive any subsidies to cover its operating costs, all these costs incurred by the agency in the implementation of its budget were covered by the commission. the fact that the agency does not have a separate budget means that it is effectively integrated into the commission, which is contrary to its statute. in order to remedy this situation, it was agreed to enter a specific budget line for the agency in the general budget of the european union for 2012.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. as regards human resources, i support the call for the agency to take the necessary measures to increase the legality, transparency and objectivity of its recruitment procedures. the court's findings on the existence of significant financial management gaps are of concern. i agree with the call for the agency to provide full details of its financial situation. i think the commission should try not to increase the agency's budget in this time of financial crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharging the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2010 by confirming to the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions that the budget of the foundation for the financial year 2010 has been discharged and approving the closure of the accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the foundation's efforts to strengthen its controls to improve the quality of its research are also welcomed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. it is of concern that a large part of eurojust's 2010 appropriations has been carried over to subsequent years, in breach of the principle of annual periodicity. the agency's budget increased by more than 20%. as a general rule, a large proportion of the appropriations carried over or cancelled means that the agency is unable to manage a significantly increased budget. i agree that more attention should be paid to absorption capacity and to the call for the agency to reduce its annual budget if it does not take structural action to address this problem. i think that the agency should be mindful of the need to take the recommendations of the vat and the court of auditors seriously and take the necessary measures to address its shortcomings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the financial year 2010 as the director of administration of eurojust is confirmed as having discharged the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2010 and as having approved the closure of the accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. however, 12 'very important' internal audit service (ias) recommendations, including two which the agency has reported as having been implemented, have not yet been implemented and calls on the ias to clarify the current situation regarding the implementation of the recommendations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. the excessive number of carryovers is a cause for concern. it is essential that europol establishes the budget it actually needs, as carrying over appropriations to subsequent years violates the principle of annual recurrence. this problem arose because the office was moved to a new premises. i agree with the call for the agency to ensure consistency between the mff, the relevant procedures and guidelines, and to include planned activities related to public procurement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the european police office for the financial year 2010, as the director of the european police office is hereby certified that the budget of the office for the financial year 2010 has been discharged and the accounts for the financial year 2010 of the european police office are cleared. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the transactions reported are legal and regular. following a request from the discharge authority, the final annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were published on the office's website on 17 february 2012. however, the final annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were to be published immediately after their adoption on 13 september 2011. the bureau should therefore continue to do so in the future in order to increase its transparency. the office's annual work programme is aligned with its strategy for 2010-14 and includes key performance indicators, critical risks and resources for each year to achieve the objective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. as regards human resources, i regret that the agency still had a high number of vacancies in 2010; i support the call for the agency to take all necessary measures to ensure that this situation does not recur. the centre's budget was increased by 17,44% in 2010. as a general rule, a large proportion of the appropriations carried over or cancelled means that the agency is unable to manage the increased budget. i agree that more attention should be paid to absorption capacity and to the call for the agency to reduce its annual budget if it does not take structural action to address this problem.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2010, as the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights is hereby declared to have received discharge for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2010 are hereby cleared. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. the annual activity report shall recognise that the agency has adopted a code of good administrative behaviour which, together with the staff regulations, aims to ensure ethical conduct, avoid conflicts of interest, prevent fraud and encourage the reporting of irregularities. it is also noted that specific awareness-raising and conflict-of-interest measures (e.g. declarations) are taken during recruitment procedures and in selecting the staff of the selection boards. in order to further strengthen internal controls, the agency is working to improve the application of the rules for whistleblowers and to improve the protection of whistleblowers, with planned improvements to be implemented in 2012.
in writing. − since 2008, the problem of piracy at sea has been growing steadily the number of attacks has increased every year, the technological level of the weapons used by pirates has improved, the coordination of attacks has improved, the ransom demand has increased. it is worth noting that without the efforts of the international community and the eu atalanta mission, this problem would probably have become even more widespread and out of control. examples of ships carrying military equipment falling into the hands of pirates are particularly worrying. piracy complicates international trade, endangers the transport of strategic and environmentally dangerous cargoes, increases costs (the cost of insuring a single ship has increased tenfold), can lead to ecological disasters (e.g. oil spills from ships), deepens the destabilisation of countries and regions, hinders development and, above all, constantly claims innocent lives. piracy cannot be justified on any grounds, it is an international crime and could be equated with terrorist activity. i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the fight against piracy at sea must be further strengthened.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. i am opposed to the fact that the ratio of frontex's accumulated funds to the appropriations carried over was less than 50% in 2010 without justification, which is contrary to the principle of annual periodicity. the centre should make better use of its appropriations. i agree that more attention should be paid to absorption capacity and to the call for the agency to reduce its annual budget if it does not take structural action to address this problem. i regret that the agency is involved in two disputes relating to public procurement procedures. i support the call to increase the effectiveness of its internal control system in order to identify and prevent recurrent errors that threaten the legality and regularity of the agency's operations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2010, as the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union is hereby certified that the budget of the agency for the financial year 2010 has been discharged and the closure of the accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2010 is hereby approved. the court of auditors has indicated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the transactions covered by the accounts are legal and regular. however, the agency is encouraged to further improve the consistency of its strategic and annual planning. the objectives of the annual work programme for 2010 are not clearly linked to the objectives for 2010 set out in the 2007-13 multiannual plan. the agency is reminded that the lack of clear interconnection and coherence between the different planning documents may have a negative impact on the implementation of the strategic plan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. it is important to remind the agency that it must take the recommendations of the court of auditors seriously and take the necessary measures to address its shortcomings. i welcome the reduction in the gnss budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the european gnss agency for the financial year 2010, as the executive director of the european gnss agency is hereby confirmed as having discharged the agency's budget for the financial year 2010 and the closure of the accounts of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2010 is hereby approved. however, the agency is invited to correct the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors in the evaluation procedure for the award of grants under the second call for proposals of the seventh framework programme for research for the galileo project, which had a budget of eur 26 000 000. in particular, the court of auditors acknowledges that no criteria were established for assessing the financial capacity of the applicants and that, although the maximum level of compensation was determined in relation to the status of the applicant, the agency did not examine this status. the agency is invited to address the shortcomings identified by the court of auditors in relation to two grant agreements under the third call for proposals of the sixth framework programme for research. in particular, it is noted that the declarations of expenditure submitted by the beneficiaries were not based on actual costs but on standard amounts. this is incompatible with the non-profit-making principle applicable to union financial contributions and the agency should rectify this situation without delay.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. i agree with the calls for the company to base its budget on its real needs and to use appropriations appropriately, since carrying them over to the following years is contrary to the principle of annual recurrence. it is important to change the evaluation and selection procedures in order to better align the range of supported projects with the eu strategic objectives related to the programme. artemis should fully implement its internal control and financial information systems and address the problem of free access by states. i support the call for each undertaking to conclude as soon as possible the acceptance agreement with belgium provided for in regulation (ec) no 74/2008.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2010, as the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking is confirmed in discharge of the budget for the financial year 2010 and the accounts for the financial year 2010 of the artemis joint undertaking are approved. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations described therein are legal and regular. it should be noted that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2010 was not adopted until the end of the previous year. having regard to the joint undertaking's reply that the 2010 budget was adopted in january 2011 due to the fact that the part of the budget allocated to operational expenditure is dependent on the commitment appropriations of the member states and that the amount of the commitment appropriations of many member states can only be secured by the approval of their national budgets, the joint undertaking and the member states contributing to it are therefore encouraged to agree on the timetable and the practical arrangements for the disclosure of their respective commitments in order to allow the timely adoption of the joint undertaking's budget and to inform the discharge authority accordingly. the budget of the joint undertaking for 2010 is not structured and presented in accordance with the provisions of the joint undertaking's financial rules. the court of auditors is invited to assure the discharge authority that the budget structure and presentation of the joint undertaking are now fully in line with its financial rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. it is of concern that the structure and presentation of the company's 2010 budget did not comply with the requirements laid down in its founding regulation (ec) no 71/2008 and that the company had not yet completed the development of the internal procedures for the supervision of the application of the rules on the protection, use and dissemination of research results at the end of 2010. i agree with the calls for the company to address these problems as soon as possible. i support the call for each undertaking to conclude as soon as possible the acceptance agreement with belgium provided for in regulation (ec) no 74/2008.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2010, as the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking is hereby certified that the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 has been discharged and the accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 are cleared. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. it is noted that the structure and presentation of the 2010 budget of the joint undertaking did not comply with the requirements of its founding regulation (ec) no 71/2008 and the financial rules. the information provided by the joint undertaking suggests that the budget structure and presentation of the 2011 budget have been changed. the court of auditors is invited to assure the discharge authority that the structure and presentation of the joint undertaking's budget are now fully in line with the constituent regulation (ec) no 71/2008 and its financial rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. i agree with the calls for the company to base its budget on its real needs and to make good use of the appropriations allocated to it. it is important that the company, which only became financially independent at the end of 2010, completes the development of its internal control and financial reporting systems. i support the call for each undertaking to conclude as soon as possible the acceptance agreement with belgium provided for in regulation (ec) no 74/2008.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2010, as the executive director of the eniac joint undertaking is confirmed in discharge of the budget for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 are cleared. the court of auditors, in its reports on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2010, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. however, the joint undertaking received a conditional opinion from the court of auditors on the reliability of the accounts for not including in its accounts the budgetary performance report and its reconciliation with the economic performance report as required by ec accounting rule 16 presentation of budgetary information in the annual financial statements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. i agree with the calls for the company to base its budget on its real needs and to use appropriations appropriately, since carrying them over to the following years is contrary to the principle of annual recurrence. it is important that the company informs about the measures taken to address these problems and to ensure better budget execution. i agree that the company should report on the current situation with regard to projects, taking into account the award and payment of contracts, and not change the company's financial rules as requested by the commission's internal auditor.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the cfc joint undertaking for the financial year 2010, as the director of the fch joint undertaking is confirmed in discharge of the 2010 budget of the fch joint undertaking and the accounts of the fch joint undertaking for the 2010 financial year are approved. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. i agree with the calls for the company to base its budget on its real needs and to use appropriations appropriately, since carrying them over to the following years is contrary to the principle of annual recurrence. it is essential that an sme, which started its operations in 2009, fully implements its internal control and financial information systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint initiative on innovative medicinal technologies for the financial year 2010, as the executive director of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint initiative on innovative medicinal technologies is confirmed in discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 and the accounts of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint initiative on innovative medicinal technologies for the financial year 2010 are approved. the court of auditors informed that it had received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the transactions reported therein were legal and regular. the concern that the members of the joint undertaking were not able to identify the scientific priorities in a timely manner and to agree which of them should be included in the annual implementation plan has led to the postponement of the start of the 2010 annual call for proposals until 22 october 2010.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. i agree with the calls for the company to base its budget on its real needs and to use appropriations appropriately, since carrying them over to the following years is contrary to the principle of annual recurrence. i support calls for iter, which has only recently started its operations, to fully implement its internal control and financial information systems and to adopt business processes that provide financial information to accounting systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharging the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2010 by confirming to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy that the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2010 has been discharged and approving the closure of the accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. the court also noted the requirement to substantially increase the resources allocated to the iter project compared to the estimated total resources for the period 2007-2014.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. i support the calls for the company to integrate the management systems of the operational programme into the financial reporting systems used by the commission. it is important that the commission and the member states apply the single european sky regulations more effectively in order to increase the efficiency of investments in the sesar project. i am pleased with the company's good use of commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of discharge for the financial year 2010 of the sesar joint undertaking, as the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking is confirmed in discharge of the budget for the financial year 2010 of the sesar joint undertaking and the accounts for the financial year 2010 of the sesar joint undertaking are approved. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder are legal and regular.
in writing. − i am pleased that my fellow meps have endorsed my report on the fight against fraud in the european union. the commission estimates that fraud costs the eu over €120 billion a year, but the true extent of fraud in the eu is not known because of the lack of reliable data. it is safe to say that, since 1989, when the commission started to submit annual reports to the european parliament and the council, neither the commission nor the anti-fraud authority olaf has reliable data from the member states on the actual extent of fraud. this is recognised by the commission itself, which states in its annual report that the data it provides in its annual report should be treated with caution. i think that this situation needs to be changed fundamentally. the report adopted by parliament states that one of the main provisions is that the commission must take full responsibility for the recovery of eu funds illegally paid and for the collection of accurate, relevant and comparable data from the member states, which would allow us in the future to have accurate and correct data that would allow us to objectively assess the extent of fraud in the member states and to combat the misuse of eu funds more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as a large proportion of eu funds continue to be misused, and the commission is called upon to take decisive action to recover more funds wrongly paid, to ensure that member states take greater responsibility for losses related to irregularities still to be recovered, to improve the prevention and detection of irregularities and fraud, and to suspend payments immediately and apply effective sanctions in the event of misuse of eu funds. i also agree with the provision that olaf's independence, efficiency and effectiveness must be further strengthened and that the commission must take full responsibility for the recovery of funds wrongly paid.
in writing. − the european union functions on principles of cooperation and consensus. our common welfare depends on good coordination of 27 member states. it is extremely complicated task which necessitates fair contributions of all participants of the process. the whole world is witness of difficult situation in which eu was put because of frauds of some governments of the member states. this situation gives us even more responsibility: we have not only to overcome our difficulties, but to improve our cooperation processes. good reporting is one of integral part of this task. commission's annual report 2010 on the protection of the european union's financial interests argues that not all member states honor their reporting obligations. i support the rapporteur in his call to the commission to demand all necessary data from the member states. i voted in favor of this report because i agree that the eu governments should promote effective use of reporting tools in order to improve commission's eu development monitoring and facilitate european decision-making.
in writing. - i agree with this report. the low use of roaming services in the eu does not meet the needs of the european economy and is incompatible with the idea of a digital european single market. in order to reduce the often high roaming data prices, it is essential to promote competition between operators and thus encourage them to offer more attractive prices to customers. it is essential to reduce the current ceilings for wholesale and retail prices for calling and sms services and to set a ceiling for retail prices. the current regulation on roaming on public mobile telephone networks in the community will expire in june, and i therefore support the new version and the proposals contained therein. i agree with the lower prices proposed by parliament, respectively: • 24 euro cents per minute for a consumer call, • 10 euro cents per call received, • 10 euro cents for a text message, • 50 euro cents per megabyte for downloading data and browsing abroad.
in writing. − i voted for roaming on public mobile networks in the european union, as most europeans turn off their mobile services abroad for fear of having to pay huge bills when they return, as is often the case when using mobile services abroad. only 19% (a minority) of mobile users who use a mobile phone network abroad consider roaming data prices to be acceptable. according to the commission, the average price per megabyte is currently more than eur 2 and in extreme cases it reaches eur 12. this weakness is primarily due to the fact that the roaming market remains under-competitive. excessively high roaming charges, combined with an under-utilisation of roaming services in the eu, do not meet the needs of european consumers or the european economy. this trend is incompatible with the basic idea of a digital european single market. the present proposal for a regulation therefore seeks to rectify this situation. as early as 2010 in the digital agenda for europe, the commission set the objective of achieving broad harmonisation of roaming and domestic mobile tariffs by 2015. in addition to the structural measures envisaged, greater efforts are needed to ensure transparency. first, clear information is needed on the new opportunities and tariffs that the unbundling measure will bring to customers. in the future, roaming contracts would be drawn up and written in a clear and uncomplicated manner.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i am affirming that europe is at the service of its citizens. until now, roaming charges have been much higher than national charges for no good reason. the new eu regulation puts an end to this unfair pricing by imposing caps and allowing consumers to choose a different operator than their national operator for roaming services. this regulation is a welcome step forward for european citizens who will now have more control over their mobile phone bill.
in writing. − travel is an integral part of european life. it is therefore natural that we want to receive the same services abroad and on the same terms as we receive them in our own country, and not feel discriminated against by the inhabitants of the country we are travelling to. one area where further reductions in separate charges for roaming and data transmission are needed. this decision not only helps europeans on the move, but is also one of the examples of how the european parliament is making a real contribution to the building of a united europe.
in writing. - i agree with this report. i welcome the new wording of the regulation drawn up by the commission. it is important to clarify some definitions and to align the regulation with the new legislation and to involve echa in the implementation of the regulation. it would be logical to have a european chemicals agency which could take over a large part of the responsibility for the implementation of this regulation. i would not agree to a change in the rules of procedure of the ips. the ips procedure applies to chemicals, including pesticides and industrial chemicals, which are banned or severely restricted due to their effects on health or the environment. the eu should exercise extreme caution when exporting these chemicals to third countries, so that this is not done against the will of these countries. i do not think that the eu's interest in ensuring the profits of producers of dangerous chemicals who have difficulty selling them within the eu should take precedence over the eu's commitment to protecting human health and the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union is implementing the rotterdam convention, which aims to promote the exchange of information on chemicals traded between the parties to the convention and also to implement the prior informed consent (pic) procedure when a party to the convention exports a chemical covered by the convention to another party to the convention. the ips procedure helps to ensure that the exporting countries obtain the approval of the official importing countries for the substances before export. the european union is taking a step further than the rotterdam convention in the new version of the regulation adopted today, as it includes more substances than the rotterdam convention. the new wording of the ips regulation is necessary to clarify and align it with recently adopted legislation in the field of chemicals, to change the provisions relating to representation outside the union, to facilitate export and import conditions and to apply stricter measures for the incorrect implementation of those conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the export and import of dangerous substances, as regulation no 689/2008/ec (the ips regulation) implements the rotterdam convention in the european union. the purpose of the rotterdam convention is to promote the exchange of information on chemicals traded between parties to the convention and to implement the informed consent procedure (ips) when a party exports a scheduled chemical to another party to the convention. this is a measure to ensure that the exporting countries of chemicals obtain the approval of the official importing countries before export. this procedure applies to chemicals listed in annex iii to the rotterdam convention, which covers pesticides and industrial chemicals that are banned or severely restricted by the parties for reasons of health or environmental impact and are notified to the parties for the purpose of applying the ips procedure to these substances. in line with regulation (ec) no 689/2008, the eu is going beyond the scope of the rotterdam convention, as this regulation covers more substances than the rotterdam convention. furthermore, the ips procedure is applicable to all countries importing listed chemicals from the eu, not just the parties to the convention.
in writing. − the european union is now a world leader in environmental protection. i hope we can maintain these positions for the foreseeable future. i therefore support the rapporteur's call for administrative procedures to be simplified for the transport of chemicals and for them to be brought into line with international agreements, but i would stress that this must be done in a way that does not have the slightest impact on the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the amendments to the european commission's proposal for a regulation on the export and import of dangerous substances put forward by the rapporteur. dangerous chemicals should not be exported to other countries without the consent of the host country. experience has shown that the receiving countries do not respond to the request because they do not see the need to respond to requests for chemicals that are covered only by eu legislation but not by the rotterdam convention. i voted in favour of the report because i agree with the rapporteur and i do not support the export facilitations for dangerous chemicals proposed by the european commission. i call for no changes to the rotterdam convention's regulations, whose primary objective is to protect human health and the environment.
in writing. - i agree with this report. i agree with the amended rules 87 and 88 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament.
in writing. − i support the proposal to include in the rome ii regulation a provision governing the law applicable to non-contractual obligations arising from breaches of privacy and personal rights, including the right to honour and dignity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the commission is requested to submit to parliament a proposal, in accordance with article 81 (2) (c) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to include in the rome ii regulation a provision governing the law applicable to non-contractual obligations arising from breaches of privacy and of rights relating to the person, including the right to honour and dignity, taking into account the detailed recommendations attached. the commission is also requested to submit to parliament a proposal for the establishment of a voluntary centre for the settlement of cross-border disputes arising from breaches of privacy and of rights relating to the person, including the defamation of honour and dignity, through alternative dispute resolution, in accordance with article 81 (2) (d) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the requested proposal is not expected to have any financial implications.
in writing. − digital technologies make it possible to publish publicly available information online from anywhere in the world. the problem arises when such information is offensive to the honour and dignity of the person and is defamatory in nature. it is therefore necessary to provide for provisions on the choice of law applicable in such cases. i support the proposal in the report for a regulation to provide for a choice of law in cases involving breaches of privacy and personal rights.
in writing. − the arab spring has provided an opportunity for the development of closer economic cooperation between the eu and the mediterranean countries. i fully support the need to adopt a mutually beneficial, responsible and flexible cooperation strategy based on democratic principles. it is essential that the eu takes the opportunity to develop mutually beneficial agreements on trade in goods and services, thus promoting the process of economic and trade liberalisation and the consolidation of democratic reforms in the mediterranean countries. i also support the proposal to strengthen the eu's role as an investor in the mediterranean countries. to this end, the eib should be given a broader mandate to provide additional investment to small and medium-sized enterprises in the euro-mediterranean countries. it is very important to remove the existing barriers to tariffs on goods and agricultural products, to extend the scope of trade agreements, etc. one of the significant incentives for trade and cooperation would be visa facilitation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the only way to ensure the continued stability, security and economic development and progress of europe is to develop good relations with its neighbours, with a view to creating an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness based on the union's values. the lisbon treaty defines international trade as one of the three pillars of the eu's external action and requires it to be compatible with other policies in the fields of foreign affairs and international development. while trade has always been a strong part of the neighbourhood policy, there are views that the european union should be more active in helping to bring about political and economic transformation in neighbouring countries. after the arab spring, there is no regional institution overseeing the economic and political recovery of the north african countries there is no specific euro-mediterranean financial institution. moreover, the economies of the southern mediterranean have so far been run by undemocratic leaders, guided by the interests of a few and often ignoring the needs of the most vulnerable. the european union has an exclusive competence in trade and investment policy, which enables it to respond effectively to unrest and contribute to economic and social progress in the southern mediterranean countries. it is therefore essential for the european union to pursue ambitious objectives in the field of economic cooperation and to adopt a mutually beneficial, responsible and flexible strategy based on support for the process of democratic transformation and the protection of human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that trade is a highly effective eu instrument directly linked to foreign policy and development aid and that the eu must respond as soon as possible to the expectations of civil societies in the countries concerned to increase its active support for progressive reforms. trade agreements and the promotion of trade between countries are an excellent way to make a significant contribution to the progress of reforms without direct intervention. the main objectives of the trade dialogue with these countries should be economic diversification and the promotion of youth and women's employment, the reduction of corruption and transparency. i also believe that the eu's trade relations with the arab states should not be frozen in the face of the eu's growing trade relations with israel, the eu's mediterranean partner, which are mutually beneficial.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution. i welcome the decision of the board of appeal correctly interpreting the concept of 'essentially biological extraction methods' used in directive 98/44, which means that those processes must be considered as non-patentable. i agree that intellectual property rights are important in encouraging the development of new plant varieties and are necessary to stimulate economic growth and innovation. however, excessive patent protection, especially in the field of breeding, hinders innovation and progress and harms small and medium-sized breeders by preventing them from accessing animal and plant genetic resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because intellectual property rights are important for promoting the development of new plant varieties and plant-related innovation and are a necessary condition for stimulating economic growth and innovation and helping european businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to operate in the context of economic crisis and global competition. excessive patent protection, in particular in the field of breeding, can hinder innovation and progress and harm small and medium-sized breeders by preventing them from accessing animal and plant genetic resources. the introduction of plant varieties is a prerequisite for food security and, to a certain extent, for energy security. traditional breeding methods are particularly important for the modern breeding of plants and animals. the commission is therefore invited to examine in its forthcoming report the possible consequences of patenting plant breeding methods and their impact on the breeding industry, agriculture, the food industry and food safety. the commission and the member states must ensure that the eu continues to apply the global breeder exemption in its patent law to the export of plant and animal varieties.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution. maritime transport is an important factor in the eu's economic prosperity. maritime piracy is a threat to international security and regional stability and the eu must contribute to international maritime security and the fight against piracy. i very much appreciate the contribution of operation atalanta to maritime security off the coast of somalia by protecting vessels carrying wfp aid to somalia. i also welcome the foreign affairs council's decision to launch the eucap nestor project, which aims to strengthen the maritime and law enforcement capacities of eight countries in the somali peninsula and the western indian ocean and to provide training for coastal police and judicial personnel. i believe that training is one of the most important aspects of maritime capacity building. the commission's proposal for an additional eu financial contribution of eur 100 million for the african union mission in somalia (amisom) is of great importance. i support calls for member states to help promote peace, economic development and the establishment of a stable democratic regime in somalia.
in writing. − piracy at sea, especially off the coast of somalia, is a threat to european union ships and crews. last year, 300 pirate attacks took place off the african coast in the indian ocean, seizing 25 ships and killing 11 people. there's been 35 cases this year. we condemn the aggression of pirates, which threatens the lives of seafarers, the pain of their families, and the loss to the european union and its businesses. i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the idea that only broad-based measures and a comprehensive process of restructuring in somalia can stop the piracy phenomenon. only by ensuring the rule of law, good governance and prosperity in this country would the roots of piracy be eradicated - both at sea and inland. today, the eu is the largest donor to somalia with €415 million in development aid. tens of millions more are being allocated for humanitarian aid alone. all these funds are intended to create jobs and expand infrastructure, especially in rural areas. the eu also supports the creation of security forces. the eu should also continue with the atalanta mission, as partner states russia, china and india in this case prefer to cooperate with the eu rather than with nato.
mr president, colleagues, recently we all witnessed the doubtful management and misconduct of our parliamentary work when a document duly adopted by plenary was later partly cancelled in a discussion of the conference of presidents. this happened with the resolution on eu-azerbaijan negotiations. no parliamentary rule states that, once adopted, a document can afterwards be changed in substance by another member of parliament. deletion of the relevant part of the text was announced as having been made allegedly in accordance with rule 216, which refers to something different, namely to possible corrigenda to literal or linguistic errata when discovered in a text after the vote. as this was not the case, the corrigendum – as distributed in a breach of due procedure – looks unlawful when the resolution in the form in which parliament voted on it was lawful and legitimate.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. thank you for the discussion. i am sorry that in the time allotted to me of just under two and a half minutes it is not possible for me to give a detailed answer to all the questions raised. you'll get it in writing. only the essential blocks are taken out and summarised: the first is the current period: yes, there are restructuring measures in progress. but it is also up to the member states to make the appropriate proposals. you can be sure that the commission will not only be sympathetic but also very proactive in its response to any proposal to tackle the problem of supporting small and mediumsized enterprises and combating unemployment, especially youth unemployment. i ask you to support me in your member states and constituencies. secondly, the question of the appropriate support for smes has been raised many times, also for the future. we have put forward very specific proposals for the next financial period on a minimum budget for sme support. i said in the introduction that 80% of the funds are for the more developed regions and 50% for the less developed regions. i am following the discussions in the council, but also here in the house, where these limits are being criticised. i would ask you, if you really believe that we have to invest in small and mediumsized enterprises, in their ability to innovate, in their competitiveness, to actually participate in this debate to ensure that these minimum allocations are made in the budget. it is absolutely essential that we subsequently find tailor-made solutions for each region, also using the best available financial institutions, which are also subject to a certain amount of competition. i am with all those who criticise the fact that the implementation of funds, from the start to the final beneficiaries, is taking too long here and there. i am also overwhelmed by this situation and we will see what possibilities we have to improve this situation in the future. i think that a significant measure could also be - and this has been mentioned by some speakers - if, for example, the part of the future financial framework - namely heading 1 - which deals very specifically with sustainable growth, where some 500 billion are provided for, could be made clear by a clear statement before the summer that this money will be available in the next financial period. i am sure that this would send a clear signal to the citizens of europe and to the markets that there is a reliable plan for the direction in which investment could be made, and i can imagine that this would give the necessary impetus and that growth would now be supported by concrete action.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this morning's debate focused on the question of access to capital for smes and their definition. in view of the economic situation, i would like to support that effort on behalf of the presidency. access to finance for smes is essential if we are to continue to benefit from the economic growth to which smes contribute, especially innovative ones. for the same reason, the presidency is working, for example, to create an internal market for venture capital and to get the cosme proposal as far as possible. europe must ensure a good environment for small and mediumsized enterprises, in which they have the best framework conditions to develop and grow. i should like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have listened with great interest to the possibilities of simultaneously making efforts to improve energy efficiency and creating jobs for small and mediumsized enterprises. both are very important priorities for the danish presidency as part of the efforts to create green growth and jobs. at the same time, the commission's 2008 'small business act' has been an important step, but the efforts of many member states should also be underlined. as an extension of this, the presidency has chosen to focus on streamlining and simplifying rules such as procurement rules. simpler tendering rules will make it easier for smes to bid on tasks. another example is the efforts to create a genuine digital single market, which is crucial for the growth potential of smes. thirdly, and this is in response to mr kalfin, mr rübig and mr nistelrooij, it is an important part of the mff negotiations that a greater share of the eu budget should be allocated to growth-promoting measures, both research and development, and that the structural funds should also be better targeted towards these purposes. it is an important part of the work carried out by the danish presidency with a view to the mff agreement for the period 2014-2020. in this context, i would like to thank the european parliament for its support for the work of the presidency and i look forward to the fact that together, parliament, the commission and the council, we will make a great effort to ensure that europe's small and mediumsized enterprises will once again experience growth, so that we can create jobs, not least for the millions of young people who have an expectation that we will jointly deliver results for them.
in writing. i fully agree with the council and the commission that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the european union's economy and a significant source of employment and job creation. the ongoing crisis has left more than 25 million eu citizens unemployed, and it is imperative to harness the potential of smes to contribute to reducing unemployment and creating jobs. i think one of the main remaining problems that is making small business worse is access to finance. the council spokesman mentioned that between 2007 and 2014, some €70 billion of financial support from the structural funds and the various programmes for small businesses administered by the european investment bank will be available to smes. however, some doubts about the effectiveness of the support already arose some years ago, as it became clear that commercial banks in the member states administering eib financing had tightened their lending conditions even further during the crisis, making it more difficult for smes to access eu funds. the lack of information on the availability of such financial assistance to smes in the member states also remains a major obstacle to the use of the support. i believe that the commission should provide data on the support granted to smes to date and how it has been distributed in the member states, assess the effectiveness of that support and identify the most effective principles for providing support so that smes can benefit from the funding opportunity in a timely manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the proposed regulation lays down mandatory provisions for the issuing of euro coins intended for circulation and collector coins. it also sets out a certain limit on the circulation of circulation coins and a consultation procedure before the destruction of eligible euro coins for circulation. the reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation will simplify administrative procedures and increase the value of each commemorative coin as it becomes less common.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in addition to ordinary circulation euro coins, the member states of the european union may issue, in accordance with the rules, special circulation euro coins to commemorate certain events. however, in order to ensure that such coins represent only a small proportion of the total number of euro coins in circulation, a certain limit should be set for the number of circulation commemorative coins. the reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation will simplify administrative procedures, such as those for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. credit institutions and other payment service providers, taking into account the scope of their payment service activities, as well as any other institutions involved in the handling and distribution of banknotes and coins, are obliged to ensure that the euro banknotes and coins they receive and intend to re-circulate are checked for authenticity and recognised as counterfeit. the reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation will enable member states to carry out more effective and efficient authentication checks on euro coins throughout the euro area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 975/98 of 3 may 1998 on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation, as the member states should be allowed to issue commemorative euro circulation coins to commemorate events of major national or european importance, but commemorative coins issued jointly by all participating member states should be limited to commemorate the most important events of european importance. the denomination of the euro 2 coin is the most suitable for this purpose, mainly due to the large diameter of the coin and its technical characteristics, which ensure sufficient protection against counterfeiting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. parliament is a full institutional actor in security policy issues and it is therefore necessary to ensure its involvement in defining the specificities, priorities and evaluation of the eu internal security strategy (iss). the objectives of the iss are not exhaustive and should be better defined, and i therefore support the proposals in the report for strengthening the eu's security policy. a policy cycle assessment should be carried out to coordinate national and european action to combat organised crime, as well as an analysis of the threats to be addressed. a parliamentary review of the stockholm programme must be carried out and close cooperation with third countries on security issues ensured.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, even after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, neither the member states nor the commission had envisaged any role for parliament in this process. the treaty of lisbon created an area of freedom, security and justice in the european union, respecting fundamental rights, the different legal systems and traditions of the member states. the european union's security policy is closely linked to the concrete rule of law principle of the european union and must therefore be strengthened on the basis of democratic values, citizens' rights and fundamental freedoms. the main threats identified in the common strategy for internal security organised crime, terrorism and radicalism, cybercrime, corruption and border management problems have a link between external and internal aspects. the stockholm programme stresses that the internal security strategy of the european union should be developed with a view to further enhancing security throughout the union and to combating organised crime, terrorism and other threats effectively, while respecting fundamental rights, international protection and the rule of law. coordinated and consistent action in both areas is needed to ensure the effectiveness of any response.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon created an area of freedom, security and justice in the eu, respecting fundamental rights, the different legal systems and traditions of the member states. this policy is a shared competence of the eu and the member states. the commission communication on an internal security strategy 2010-2014 identifies five priority areas where the eu can add value: the fight against and prevention of serious and organised crime, the fight against terrorism and cybercrime, strengthening the management of external borders and increasing resilience to natural and man-made disasters. the ep welcomes the work on the internal security strategy and the main principles underpinning the european security model, in particular the stronger link between security, freedom and privacy and cooperation and solidarity between member states. eu security measures and cooperation must be consistent with the eu's commitments on fundamental rights and must focus more on targeted law enforcement and intelligence-led activities that can reduce crime and prevent terrorist attacks. it is important to ensure coherence and complementarity between the internal and external security aspects and it is also necessary to ensure that the measures and actions implementing the internal security strategy are consistent with the eu's commitments on fundamental rights, as well as with external policy objectives and international human rights and humanitarian law.
in writing. − the need to develop an eu internal security strategy to respond in a coordinated, solidarity-based and effective manner to the diversity of internal security challenges is clear. i agree that freedom, security and justice are objectives to be pursued simultaneously and that the implementation of the eu charter of fundamental rights must be one of the essential elements of the strategy. however, it is regrettable that at a time when we are working to strengthen the european judicial culture, to ensure coordination of the external border management of the countries, and to establish a system for the use and coordination of eu and national measures, there are very painful cases where, in application of the provisions of eu legislation, a third-country national detained in one eu country on suspicion of war crimes and crimes against humanity has been released without being transferred to the judicial authorities of the eu member state that brought the charges against him. this lack of cooperation and solidarity goes against the very essence of the eu's security strategy under development, undermining the member states' ability to pursue justice. i therefore hope that the forthcoming mid-term review of the stockholm programme and other related assessments will take account of such cases so that similar situations do not recur.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur mentions organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime as the main themes of the eu's internal security strategy. the problem of organised crime in lithuania is a matter of great concern. eu statistics show that the crime rate in lithuania has risen sharply as the economic situation has deteriorated. in the last few years, drug-related crime has increased by 19%. the economist intelligence unit predicts that this increase in crime will continue to increase in the coming years. in its latest report on crime in europe, the international law enforcement agency europol drew attention to organized crime in lithuania. the report, entitled 'organized crime threat assessment 2011', mentions lithuania 24 times, mostly in the context of organised crime. for comparison, estonia is mentioned 3 times in the report, while latvia is mentioned only once. according to the europol report, lithuanian organised crime groups have established drug trafficking infrastructure, extended supply routes and supplier networks in almost all regions of lithuania. given that lithuania is a member of the eu, this problem is not only a problem for lithuania but for europe as a whole. since 2008, the number of criminal offences in the eu has increased by 7% each year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu is committed to providing its citizens with an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, with measures to prevent and combat crime. it is necessary to ensure the consistency and high quality of the eu criminal law, as it is inconsistent today and there is still no body responsible for coordinating all proposals containing criminal law provisions. i support the proposal for an interinstitutional agreement laying down the principles and working methods for the regulation of eu criminal law provisions and the call for the commission to be given clear responsibility for coordinating all proposals containing criminal law provisions. it is also important that the legal provisions are fully clear and in line with the national systems in force.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union has so far often developed criminal law provisions on an ad hoc basis and there is therefore a need for greater consistency. there was no separate area for criminal law. the treaty on european union commits the eu to provide its citizens with an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, in which the free movement of persons is ensured by the application of appropriate measures, inter alia, to prevent and combat crime. criminal law provisions can thus be found in the justice and home affairs instruments, as well as in many other eu policies. in order to ensure a more coherent and efficient criminal justice system of the highest quality, parliament needs to improve its procedures in conjunction with the other legislature. the lower crime rate in the eu may not be determined by the criminal law itself the investigation of criminal offences and the enforcement of penalties for them are equally, if not more important. the harmonisation of criminal law in the european union should contribute to the development of a common eu legal culture against crime, complementing but not replacing national legal traditions and having a positive impact on mutual trust between member states in their legal systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu approach to criminal law because the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has opened up more possibilities for regulating this area at eu level, and therefore aims to harmonise the concept of substantive law, to make it clearer and more understandable. however, proposals for substantive eu criminal law provisions must fully respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and criminal law must fully respect the fundamental rights of suspects, accused persons or convicted persons.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, we must create a genuine common area of justice in the eu. citizens must have confidence that their rights will be protected, regardless of where they are in the 27 member states. the european commission recently acknowledged that the eu has been working for a long time to create a european area of criminal justice with one hand tied behind its back. i think there have been many occasions when the eu's other hand has also covered its eyes. the rapporteur argues that the growing distrust is a prerequisite for the eu-wide recognition of judgments given in other member states. in order to enhance that trust, common minimum standards should be established in relation to the right to a fair trial and the rights of victims of crime. in lithuania, this is a problem. according to many reports published by the european council on foreign relations, judges in lithuania are part of the problem, as they choose a more complex system that they can manipulate to their advantage, such as the 'fee' for changing the date of a court hearing. lithuanians have little confidence in the courts, according to a eurobarometer survey earlier this year. only 22% of lithuanians trust the courts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. eu consumer protection legislation aims to provide overall consumer protection against unfair commercial practices, false advertising and unfair contract terms, but vulnerable consumers must be given special protection and a separate strategy. i agree with the calls on the commission and the member states to analyse carefully consumer behaviour and the circumstances in which certain groups may be vulnerable in order to ensure protection for all consumers, regardless of their abilities. most consumers become vulnerable because of their lack of perseverance in defending their interests, their lack of understanding of the information or opportunities available to them, and their lack of familiarity with current complaint systems and procedures. i therefore support the european parliament's proposals to focus more on consumer information and education campaigns, to simplify complaint procedures, to tighten advertising standards, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the promotion and protection of consumer rights are core values for developing eu policies in the relevant areas, in particular to strengthen the single market and to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. all consumers may become vulnerable at some stage in their lives due to external factors and their interaction with the market or because they are unable to obtain or understand information of importance to consumers and therefore require special protection. the widely used concept of vulnerable consumers covers a heterogeneous group of certain categories of persons considered vulnerable on account of mental, physical or psychological disability, age, infirmity or gender. this concept should also cover consumers who are temporarily placed in a position of powerlessness caused by a gap between their individual status and characteristics or by their external environment, taking into account criteria such as education, social and financial status or access to the internet. the objective of eu consumer protection policy should be to ensure a high level of empowerment and protection for each consumer. in developing a strategy to strengthen the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, it is necessary to seek to enable them to participate in the single market, to contribute not only to their social inclusion and to the creation of a fairer and more tolerant society, but also to the functioning of a more dynamic, secure and competitive internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on a strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers, because the diversity of cases of vulnerability, both when consumers are legally protected and when they are vulnerable in a particular sector or over a certain period of time, makes it difficult to apply a single appropriate approach and adopt a comprehensive legal instrument. in accordance with current legislation and policy, the issue of vulnerability is therefore addressed on a case-by-case basis. the problem of consumer vulnerability needs to be addressed by eu legislation at a horizontal level, taking into account different consumer needs, capacities and circumstances. the rapporteur specifically addresses the following sectors: finance, food, transport, internet, liberalised markets, access to justice. the vulnerability of older consumers is also highlighted, in particular due to the digitalisation of services and the additional costs incurred in administering services in traditional shops and branches, which in many cases result in older consumers paying more for the same products.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur's main argument that strengthening the rights of the most vulnerable consumers not only contributes to their social inclusion and a fairer society, but also to a more competitive internal market. the rapporteur rightly points out that better consumer information is important to reduce consumer vulnerability. but information alone is not enough. the eurobarometer survey revealed that lithuanian consumers need a stronger consumer protection system. the survey showed that only 37% of lithuanian consumers believe that existing consumer protection measures are sufficiently protected, compared to 59% in the eu. lithuanian consumers reluctantly trust governmental organisations to protect their interests. only 37% of lithuanians believe that the authorities will protect their interests (compared to 54% of the eu average). slightly more lithuanians would trust consumer associations providing help 42% of lithuanians trust independent consumer organisations that defend their consumer rights. the problem, as the world bank report revealed, is that consumer organizations receive limited funding from the government, which is inadequate. ideally, funding from the government would be complemented by funding from european agencies or by their cooperation with existing european consumer associations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree with the proposals put forward by the european parliament that the european commission should carry out an analysis of the possible impact of the issue of the 1 and 2 euro banknotes and present a report outlining the positive and negative aspects of the issue of the 1 and 2 euro banknotes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the question of optimising the euro is relevant now that the euro has established itself as an important international currency, increasing investment demand and promoting trade. the single currency and monetary policy of the euro area countries have led to closer trade and financial links between the countries. this growing economic integration has led to more closely coordinated economic policy strategies. although this report relates to the issue of euro coins, one possibility for the future of the euro that the european central bank and the european commission could also consider is the issue of 1 and 2 euro banknotes. while the issuance of 1 and 2 euro banknotes would reduce the circulation of 1 and 2 euro coins, the use of 1 and 2 euro banknotes would at the same time have advantages for the member states: increased currency governance and favourable treatment and a positive impact on european tourism without affecting the value of euro coins. the issuance of the 1 and 2 euro banknotes would increase the value of collectible euro coins. reducing the number of commemorative coins in circulation would help to simplify administrative procedures and their increased rarity would also further increase the value of each commemorative coin.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the issue of euro coins, as the ecb and the commission should consider the possibility of issuing 1 and 2 euro banknotes. the introduction of the 1 and 2 euro banknotes would reduce the number of 1 and 2 euro coins in circulation, increase the efficiency of their management and the acceptability of the currency, and have a positive impact on tourism. the value of the coins would not be affected. the issuance of 1 and 2 euro banknotes would increase the value of collector coins. reducing the number of commemorative coins in circulation would simplify administrative procedures and increase the value of each coin due to its increased scarcity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the inadequate transposition or failure to transpose internal market legislation in member states is detrimental to the economic interests not only of that member state but also of the eu as a whole. the internal market is a key factor in enhancing competitiveness and economic growth in the eu, especially in times of financial crisis. it is therefore necessary to ensure the transposition of eu internal market legislation into the national law of the member states, thus contributing to the creation of the single market. i support the merger of solvit and internal market performance summary reports and the proposal to strengthen the objectives of transposition and implementation of eu directives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the single market scoreboard pursues one very important objective: to improve the functioning of the internal market. the importance of a functioning internal market was underlined at the first common market forum in krakow in 2011, in particular in the krakow declaration. this is also reflected in the european parliament's resolution on the outcome of the single market forum, which describes the single market as the most powerful instrument for putting europe back on the path to sustainable growth and jobs. the internal market cannot function properly until the directives relating to the functioning of the internal market are properly transposed into national law and enforced. the average rate of non-transfer is currently 1.2%, above the 1% target agreed by heads of state or government in 2007. the number of directives that have been incorrectly transposed into national law is also high. the internal market scoreboard provides objective and substantive data on the transposition and implementation of eu legislation in the member states on an ongoing basis. this scoreboard is one of the main tools to encourage member states to improve the quality of transposition of internal market directives.
in writing. − i abstained because it is not clear why and why member states are delaying the transposition of eu directives into national law, even though i agree that the single market should be the most powerful instrument to put europe back on the path to sustainable growth and jobs. the internal market cannot function properly unless the directives relating to the functioning of the internal market are properly transposed, applied and enforced. it is necessary for member states to transpose internal market legislation into national law not only in a timely manner but also in an appropriate manner, and the failure of one member state to comply with it is detrimental not only to the economic interests of that member state but also to those of the union as a whole. it is also not enough to transpose eu directives into national law in a timely and proper manner. however, i think the eu should pay more attention to the cause and effect assessment of why some member states are able to implement the provisions in time while others are lagging far behind. knowing the real reasons might even help us to improve our results in this area.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, less than five years ago, lithuania sat at the european commission's table to discuss how member states are successfully transposing eu internal market legislation into national law. today, the situation looks very different. the latest commission figures published this month revealed that lithuania is seriously failing to implement single market legislation. as the rapporteur points out, the internal market is the best tool we have to restore growth to the european economy. according to the latest commission estimates, the full exploitation of the internal market could generate growth of around 4% of gdp over the next 10 years. to make better use of the single market's potential to stimulate growth and job creation, we need free and well-integrated markets, unfettered rights to provide services and a lower administrative burden for business. the eu's internal market meeting in vilnius a few weeks ago reminded that the digital single market is another area with great untapped economic potential for lithuania. lithuanian consumers are often unable to take full advantage of the eu internal market, for example, lithuanian consumers cannot buy goods online from another member state because it does not sell goods to lithuania.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is inclusive growth, including increased participation of women in the labour market, as well as in public and political life. gender equality policies contribute to growth and employment. turkey, as a candidate country to the european union, is obliged to comply with community legislation and to commit to respecting human rights, including women's rights and gender equality. it calls on turkey to continue its legal reform and monitoring of its implementation, as well as to disseminate information to combat violence against women, including domestic violence. turkey is making little progress in improving and implementing its legislative framework to ensure women's equal participation in social, economic and political life. further long-term efforts are needed to make the current legal framework a reality, as gender equality, combating violence against women, including honour killings, and combating early and forced marriage remain key challenges in the country. the coordination and coordination of action in the areas of violence against women, education and representation at national and local levels is therefore particularly necessary. turkey, as a candidate country, must contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy by committing to gender equality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the citizens' initiative is an effective means of getting the views of the citizens of the european union on a wide range of issues. this initiative, which was incorporated in the treaty establishing a constitution for europe and later in the treaty of lisbon, aims to give citizens the right of political initiative enjoyed by the council of the european union and the european parliament. the new participatory democracy instrument aims to give citizens the right to be heard by giving them the opportunity to raise certain issues of interest to the european union institutions. another objective of the european citizens' initiative is to encourage more active cross-border debates. indeed, the european union citizens' initiative will create a direct link between citizens and the institutions, ensuring that the european union institutions address specific issues that are of interest to citizens. the european parliament will be able to contribute to these objectives by using all the instruments at its disposal to support the selected citizens' initiatives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision on the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament on the implementation of the european citizens' initiative, as the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that a single information point is set up in the european parliament to which citizens, representative associations and civil society can turn for questions relating to european citizens' initiatives. all public hearings on european citizens' initiatives should be represented by the member of the commission responsible for the area concerned or, if he or she is unable to do so, by another member of the commission or by the director-general responsible for the area concerned. the bureau and the secretary-general should take appropriate measures to ensure the highest possible visibility of public debates on european citizens' initiatives by providing for appropriate measures, including the use of available information and communication technologies. i think that members of the european parliament themselves should be more active in the debate on european citizens' initiatives.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i have always supported all initiatives such as the eu citizens' initiative which aim to strengthen the direct link between citizens and the institutions by ensuring that the eu institutions are presented with issues which citizens feel are being ignored. the european citizens' initiative can help eu citizens to participate actively in the eu decision-making process. unfortunately, lithuania lacks serious citizens' initiatives. a recent study published by the london school of economics (lse) revealed that, despite the existence of direct democratic legislative instruments, the political influence of these institutions remains highly questionable. the lse report indicates that this is mainly due to the high level of distrust of lithuanians towards politicians and political institutions, as well as to the skepticism towards citizens' ability to influence politicians. the lack of formation, weakness and passivity of civil society in lithuania also gives me great concern. the problem is partly due to the strict procedural requirements for citizens' initiatives in lithuania. in lithuania, organisers of citizens' initiatives have to collect 300 000 signatures (11.4% of the total population) within three months. this is proportionally several times higher than in most eu countries, further reducing the number of citizens' initiatives.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. china, with its economic potential, has become one of the european union's most important trading partners. trade between the union and china has shown a steady upward trend over the past three decades, giving both partners a high share of world trade. there is, however, one aspect of trade relations to which we should pay particular attention. for almost 15 years, there has been an imbalance in bilateral trade. it's only good for one side of china. this is why the trade deficit is around eur 170 billion to the detriment of the union. the european parliament should draw the commission's attention to the application of the principle of reciprocity in the common commercial policy in relations with china. only in this way will we minimize the lack of fully fair competition resulting from the fact that the chinese economy does not meet the criteria of a market economy. in addition, the union should oblige china to adopt international standards for products and services, which will promote transparency in trade and contribute to the safety of chinese-made products for european consumers. the deepening trade imbalance with china is a warning to the union that without reciprocity in our relations, europe will become a mere market for the chinese economy, rather than a partner for the dynamically developing chinese economy. this is why it is so important to heal the trade relationship between the eu and china.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree that the eu would not only carry forward the amendments to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icact) multiannual recovery plan for eastern bluefin tuna, but would also commit to an even stricter protection of the marine environment than that provided for in the plan. i welcome the amendments concerning the reduction of the tac and the reinforcement of the control measures applied to implement the recovery plan, in particular the control measures relating to the transfer and caging operations. i also support the european parliament's proposals to establish no-fishing zones in the mediterranean and to abolish the minimum size exemption for eu vessels for bluefin tuna. the eu faces serious problems related to the traditional overfishing and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing practices, and it is therefore essential to take measures to ensure the sustainability of the marine environment and fish stocks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in november 2010 in paris, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icact) amended its multiannual recovery plan for eastern bluefin tuna. as a contracting party to the iccat, the european union is obliged to implement those amendments into eu law. stocks of bluefin tuna have been severely depleted and urgent action is needed to protect them. in this context, icao has adopted a new recommendation. the amendments include a reduction in the tac and a tightening of control measures, in particular those relating to movements and caging operations, to implement the recovery plan. this is of great concern to the european union, as despite the significant investment in eu fisheries management measures, many problems related to the traditional overfishing persist. since the icao recommendation has already been adopted at international level, the possibilities for amending the transposable text are limited. however, a few amendments may be made to improve the proposal. the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna shall take into account the commitments set out in the marine strategy framework directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the tac for bluefin tuna has been amended and strengthened many times. this communication contains amendments drawn up in november 2010 and relates to: the reduction of the tac from 13 500 tonnes to 12 900 tonnes (although the tac is not included in this regulation); the strengthening of various aspects of control, in particular as regards the transfer of tuna from nets to traps; the requirement for more detailed data to be included in member states' fishing plans, capacity management plans and inspection plans; the strengthening of measures relating to capacity reductions; the extension of the prohibition period for fishing with beam traps in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean; the prohibition of fishing operations in conjunction with non-eu flagged vessels; the various provisions aimed at increasing inspection and surveillance capacity and the corresponding amendments to the annexes. the eu has no choice but to accept these amendments, as they have been agreed by an international organisation and the eu has not objected to them. the rapporteur therefore confirms them as they stand.
in writing. − i welcome the effort made by the rapporteur in bringing together issues from different policy areas and creating a comprehensive and proactive approach to the problem of bluefin tuna conservation and recovery. the report mentions that the standard iccat regulations are only a response to identified problems. we must, however, take advantage of our joint force of 27 member states. i support the rapporteur’s proposals for unilateral eu measures which would help us to implement our environmental objectives. we should also look to the abnormally inflated demand. one country’s market – that of japan – threatens the preservation of bluefin tuna in the whole mediterranean sea. i voted in favour of this report, because i support calls for the practices of limited and reasonable consumption. the monitoring of food wastage could also significantly contribute to the preservation of blue fin tuna via market relations. while current excessive fishing is a response to current inflated demand, a decrease in demand would provoke a decrease in fishing.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the question of the introduction of double hull or equivalent design requirements for single hull oil tankers is of great importance. oil spills caused by oil tanker accidents such as the 1999 erika and the prestige are major ecological disasters and tragedies for marine fauna and flora. in the interest of the environment and in order to learn from past mistakes, this regulation aims to accelerate the application of the double-bodied requirements in order to reduce the risks of accidental hydrocarbon pollution in european waters. this proposal does not change the substance of the regulation but introduces certain updates. in the light of the power conferred on the commission by the treaty of lisbon to adopt delegated acts, i support the commission's proposal to recast the regulation as it stands at present.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the issue of the early introduction of safety requirements for single hull oil tankers is of great importance for the european union. oil spills caused by oil tanker accidents are a major ecological disaster and a tragedy for marine life. in the interest of the environment, this regulation aims to reduce the risks of accidental pollution in european waters by establishing double-blind requirements. the requirement for tankers to have a double hull would protect cargo tanks from accidents and reduce the risk of pollution. in the cargo tanks of single hull ships, oil is separated from seawater only by the hull plates of the bottom and wall. if these hull plates were damaged by collision or by being washed ashore, there would be a risk that the contents of the cargo tanks could leak into the sea and cause large-scale pollution. an effective way to avoid this danger is to cover the cargo tank with a second layer of sheets of the inner shell, at a sufficient distance from the outer shell.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the accelerated introduction of double hull or equivalent design requirements for single hull oil tankers (recast), as the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission considered that the proposal does not contain any substantive amendments other than the amendments indicated and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts and the amendments indicated, the proposal seeks only to codify the existing texts without changing their substance. in the interest of the environment and in order to learn from past mistakes, this regulation aims to reduce the risks of accidental hydrocarbon pollution in european waters by accelerating the application of the double-bodied requirements. in the cargo tanks of single hull ships, oil is separated from seawater only by the hull plates of the bottom and wall. if these hull plates were damaged by collision or by being washed ashore, there would be a risk that the contents of the cargo tanks could leak into the sea and cause large-scale pollution. an effective way to avoid this danger is to cover the cargo tank with a second layer of sheets of the inner shell, at a sufficient distance from the outer shell. this double-hull design protects the cargo tanks from accidents and reduces the risk of pollution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the new protocol aims to improve the administration, control and management of fishing activities and to contribute to a better conservation of fisheries resources in mozambican waters. i agree that the financial contribution and the hiring of seafarers will have a positive impact on the country's fisheries sector and on the implementation of the sustainable fisheries programmes adopted at national level. the agreement with mozambique is also of great importance to the european union as it ensures the continuity of european fleet fishing in the indian ocean and is an alternative to the increase in piracy in other areas. i agree with the european parliament's proposal that the possibility of suspending the eu's financial contribution should be considered if human rights and democratic principles are being violated in mozambique.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because this new protocol promotes responsible fishing and partnership based on respect for the fisheries legislation in force between the european union and mozambique. the objectives of this protocol also include the promotion of economic, scientific and technical cooperation in the fisheries sector and in all related sectors, with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, taking into account the interests of both parties. the new protocol is necessary due to substantial changes in view of recent developments in the national legislation of mozambique governing the fisheries sector and the outcome of negotiations on aspects that may have a financial impact on shipowners. ec fisheries in the mozambique exclusive economic zone will have to comply with certain scientific criteria based on the evaluation of tuna stocks, including the annual scientific surveys conducted by the secretariat of the indian ocean tuna commission (iotc). the protocol aims at improving the management and control of fishing activities in mozambican waters. it also ensures the continuity of european fleet fishing in the indian ocean and can be a good alternative in view of the increase in piracy in other exclusive economic zones further north.
in writing. − i abstained from voting on the draft legislative resolution on the council decision establishing a new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of mozambique, as this proposal was submitted late. the european parliament and the committee on fisheries could study this issue more closely, and the commission and the council are invited to present an evaluation report on the results of the protocol on the application of fishing to mozambique.
in writing. − the european union is a major economic agent in the region and makes significant contributions to development in the republic of mozambique. i support the rapporteur’s welcoming of the new protocol regulating fishing opportunities, because this agreement creates a basis for sustainable fishing and supports socio-economic development in mozambique: more jobs and building capacities. cooperation between the eu states and mozambique is deepening: from simple financial deals, steps are being taken towards joint actions. it is a major improvement, but these new developments are not enough. i agree with the rapporteur, that cooperation between eu and mozambique should go further, with greater than ever levels of coordination and more opportunities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree that reform of the resource system is necessary to provide the eu with a stable and sufficient source of income. i believe that the proposal to introduce a financial transaction tax is timely to this end. its introduction would respond to the requirements to help the financial sector cover the costs of the current crisis and would have a positive impact on the long-term growth of the eu economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the economic difficulties, this commission proposal for a financial transaction tax (ftt) is an important response to repeated calls throughout the european union to require the financial sector to contribute to the costs of the current crisis. the fsm is essentially linked to the common market. the creation of a european legal framework for ftt pursues a dual objective: equity, since financial transactions remain largely exempt from taxation, and harmonisation, since a uniform european approach to the taxation of financial transactions must be respected, with tax rates that are at least similar, if not uniform across the eu, and set at the common minimum rate. the emff is also closely linked to the objective of fully exploiting the potential of the single market to revive economic growth in europe and thus enable the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. investment in the single market is necessary and should be provided by a european source of funding. the fms, whose revenue supplements the general budget of the european union, would therefore help to raise the money europe needs by investing consistently in its economic progress. however, the fsm must ensure sufficient revenues to fulfil its role as a policy tool to overcome the crisis and not to shy away from such investment instruments, which are needed in the eu to ensure economic growth and adequate income for pensioners.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the 2008 global financial crisis spread rapidly and with significant effects to the real economy, causing a major global economic downturn and a significant boost to employment. the need for public funds to finance rescue schemes for oversized financial institutions has led to a significant deterioration in the state of public finances and to a further intensification of the global and european economic downturn. the discussions on the financial transaction tax (ftt) were driven by the desire to ensure that the financial sector contributes to the costs of the crisis and that the taxation of the financial sector is uniform with respect to other sectors in the future. it is necessary to create barriers to the excessive risk-taking of financial institutions. this will complement regulatory measures aimed at preventing future crises and generating additional revenue for general budgets, including for fiscal consolidation purposes to promote growth and job creation or to finance specific policy areas such as development aid and climate change. but we must tax the financial sector, not the citizens! the objectives of the fsm can only be achieved if it is set at global level, and the union should lead the efforts to reach agreement on the fsm at global level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the european commission's proposal to introduce a financial transaction tax. the socialist and democratic group has for several years urged the european commission and the european member states to cut the profits of financial speculators. the economic crisis has made the need for this tax even clearer, and has finally led the european commission to propose legislation. the financial transaction tax will reduce the risk of speculation, and will make the financial sector more stable. investors will think about long-term investments rather than short-term overnight gains. the estimated €100 billion in annual revenues will allow crisis-hit countries to invest in job creation, innovation and the advancement of the green economy. of course, it would make sense to introduce such a tax globally, or at least at eu level. the reluctance of a few countries to regulate speculative machinery should not be seen as a guarantee for all eu member states. however, if no consensus is reached, individual eu countries or groups of them, as proposed in the communication, could decide to introduce a financial transaction tax on transactions within their countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the eu's common trade policy with china requires the application of the principle of reciprocity in order to restore fair competition and foster a partnership. i support calls on the commission to work with the chinese government to remove obstacles to the chinese economy meeting the wto's market economy criteria. the goc needs to find ways to remove barriers to foreign companies entering its markets, ensure fair competition, mutual market access and clear market regulation, in particular of foreign direct investment and intellectual property rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because the issue of eu-china cooperation is of great relevance, especially after china joined the world trade organisation (wto) and subsequently became the largest exporter of goods and the second most powerful economic power in the world. china has not only benefited from the development of the wider economy and its accession to the wto, but it now has a greater responsibility to play a full and positive role in the global economic system, in particular in the international monetary fund (imf) and the world bank group. it is important to note that the european union has become the largest source of chinese imports, replacing japan. the increasing chinese imports have recently been very important for the economic activities of export-oriented eu member states such as germany. the eu-china cooperation agreement has greatly expanded bilateral trade relations. however, the different social, economic and democratic models of china and the eu, as well as their respective demographics and natural resources, have a significant impact on the trade imbalances between the two regions. it is therefore essential to adapt the provisions on eu-china cooperation to the current economic situation. a new phase in eu-china trade relations must be launched, based on the principles of a partnership of equals for the benefit of both partners, reciprocity and fair competition, implemented in pursuit of common development. this could open up new investment opportunities for european businesses and enhance cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the trade imbalance between the eu and china. the commission must apply the principle of reciprocity in its common eu trade policy with developed and emerging market economies such as china in order to restore fair competition and ensure a more level playing field. the chinese economy does not meet the market economy criteria set by the wto and the commission is therefore invited to cooperate with the chinese government in order to remove all remaining obstacles by 2016, when the wto is expected to grant china market economy status. this status should be granted before that date only if china fulfils all the criteria set out.
in writing. china has publicly declared its ambition to become the world's leading power by the end of the century. meanwhile, the economies of the european union countries are recovering from the crisis and are facing new challenges in world trade. in this context, the eu and china should develop a new type of partnership based on the principles of transparency, fairness, reciprocity and balance. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for a global fight against chinese counterfeits, for more effective protection of eu markets against such goods, and for greater protection of intellectual property rights in this country. all goods from china should meet ec requirements, especially social and environmental requirements. i support the idea of providing eu and chinese companies with the same business development opportunities in both eu countries and china. it is therefore important that china accedes to international trade agreements such as the wto agreement on government procurement as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree that the work of the committees of inquiry should be strengthened and therefore i support the adoption of a new regulation. when an institution or body is entrusted with a specific task, it should be given the powers necessary to carry out that task. in order to justify its conclusions, the committee should have the right to invite any person, including officials and other servants of the eu institutions or of the member states, to attend, where appropriate. i agree with the rapporteur that if a witness refuses to be questioned or gives false testimony, he/she will be subject to sanctions. the committees of inquiry must have the necessary means to enable the ep to exercise serious and effective political control in line with the expectations of european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the right of inquiry is an important part of parliamentary oversight. the parliaments of the world's democracies exercise this right in different ways. indeed, a comparison of the different types of committees of inquiry in the different member states reveals that there are significant differences in the procedures for their establishment, functioning and mandate. in view of the new institutional balance, the differences that have emerged in the european union since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and the experience gained in the work of the european parliament's committees of inquiry, decision 95/167/ec, euratom, ecsc, which lays down detailed provisions governing the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry, should be repealed and replaced by a new regulation. the purpose of the committee of inquiry is to propose measures to the whole parliament whose implementation would correct an illegal or incorrect situation. the functions of parliament relating to political control are strengthened and extended, and in line with the practice of national parliaments and in accordance with the requirements of the treaty on european union, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, the committees of inquiry of the european parliament should be strengthened and given specific, concrete and clearly defined powers which better correspond to the political importance and powers of the european parliament, while respecting the principle of proportionality enshrined in the treaty on european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal for a regulation of the european parliament on the detailed provisions governing the exercise of the right of inquiry by the parliament and repealing decision 95/167/ec, euratom, ecsc of the european parliament, the council and the commission, as this regulation lays down the detailed provisions governing the exercise of the right of inquiry by the european parliament, in the performance of its duties, in respect of suspected irregularities and maladministration in the implementation of union law. the treaty of lisbon has created a renewed and strengthened institutional balance in the union, enabling the union institutions to operate more effectively, more openly and more democratically. in these circumstances, the european parliament's political control functions have been strengthened and extended. in accordance with the practice of national parliaments and in accordance with the requirements of the treaty on european union, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community (hereinafter referred to as the 'treaties'), the committees of inquiry of the european parliament should therefore be strengthened and given specific, concrete and clearly defined powers which better reflect the political importance and powers of the european parliament, while respecting the principle of proportionality enshrined in article 5 of the treaty on european union. the powers conferred on committees of inquiry, which are the exclusive instruments of political control, should be without prejudice to the responsibilities of other institutions. it should be noted that the doctrine of separation of powers should be respected, which provides that the legislative (parliament), executive (government) and judicial (courts) powers should be separated in order to prevent abuse of power.
in writing. −the treaty of lisbon provides for the right of the european parliament to set up committees of inquiry. it is a right of the ep to ensure greater democracy throughout the european union, and to help it exercise strict parliamentary control. i support this report because it stresses the importance of the scope of the ep committees of inquiry. the court of justice of the eu also investigates breaches by eu institutions, so it is important that the competences of the ep and the tc do not overlap. i agree with the rapporteur that the ep should have the right to question all eu officials, from the lowest to the president of the commission, to have access to all documents, and the right to impose penalties on officials who have broken the rules. the ep must also be informed of the implementation of the decisions of the committees of inquiry. i agree with the members who stressed that the ep could invite officials from eu countries to participate in the surveys under the same conditions as staff from eu institutions.
in dealing with today's pressing problems, such as unemployment, the effects of inflation, and fiscal deficits, we need to look to the future and find new ways to use the resources we have efficiently. i agree that we need to make a better overall use of secondary raw materials and create the right incentives to reduce waste and recycle it. we need to make the use of national resources and sustainability a top priority in innovation agendas at european and national level. by using more sustainably, reducing waste, and better collecting and sorting, we can contribute to the well-being of our planet and all of us. sustainable waste management is an integral part of the green economy. the european union should use its political and economic power to encourage other countries in the world to do the same. to ensure our own well-being and to enable future generations to reap the same benefits, we must use resources in a way that respects the potential of all of us.
for the efd group there is no doubt that the economic crisis in the european union and in my country, lithuania, has increased both overall and youth unemployment. in the european union, as a colleague of mine said earlier, almost 5.5 million young people are unemployed. many young people are not exploiting their learning potential, not acquiring the skills that employers need. the 7 million people aged 15-24 who are neither working, studying nor learning were also mentioned. one in three young people in lithuania is unemployed. this is a very complicated and serious situation. the colleague who spoke said that we need to help those countries financially. yes, we need help, but i think that the european commission, the european institutions should be very strict in ensuring that the funds that will be allocated to employment for young people are used effectively to create as many jobs as possible. therefore, to really change the situation, rather than make the numbers better, it is necessary to improve the conditions for job creation, to create an attractive business environment, to fundamentally change the tax system this would encourage business initiatives to create jobs. saving money alone is not enough to solve today's problems. initiatives and investments in growth, job creation and, most importantly, in the future of all of us - the young people - are crucial.
in writing. it is indeed encouraging that at the end of last year, with the publication of the new communication on the youth opportunities initiative, the european commission took additional coordination and financial measures to promote youth employment in the member states, since it is no longer news that 5.5 million young people are unemployed, i.e. one in five young people under 25 are unemployed. we all know how difficult the situation is in the eight member states. it is very important to know how the national governments of these countries are managing to tackle the problem of youth employment by using the european social fund funds not yet allocated to projects for 2007-2013 and by providing technical assistance to start-ups. we must encourage young people to create new jobs. now the other thing i want to talk about is cooperation. only by working together can we achieve good results. to reduce youth unemployment, we must first of all get those without a secondary education back into school and enable young people to move from education and training to the labour market. we must ensure that young people who have completed their education have the opportunity to gain the first work experience that most employers require. we must also encourage cooperation between the public sector, higher education and business to ensure that young people acquire knowledge and skills in higher education that meet the requirements of employers and the demands of the market. i believe that the measures in the youth opportunities initiative should help to address these problems.
i am glad that we are discussing this issue in the european parliament today. the european union and the swiss agreements do not provide for the possibility of dividing citizens of the european union into different categories according to their affiliation to one or another member state of the european union. this swiss decision cannot be motivated by public pressure, since the swiss themselves voted in favour of free movement of workers to and from the european union (reciprocal movement) in a referendum in 2009. in the recent plenary session, we were outraged by a network of dutch politicians who discriminate against central and eastern european migrants, who are allegedly taking jobs, but are not only complaining about this, but also about the wrong parking or the noise late at night. trends are very worrying, and in times of economic hardship, people try to find scapegoats who make a difference. i hope, however, that the european union and switzerland will resolve the challenges together through normal dialogue.
i voted in favour of this document and i hope that the guidelines it sets out will be followed. we have a lot of talk about sustainable resource use, we have strategies, we have targets for green growth. of course, we have opportunities and needs. meeting the needs of the citizens of the european union is inseparable from the efficient use of resources. i am not just talking about land resources, where sustainable use of resources is generally the issue, but also about saving money. sustainable use is only possible through innovation and innovative solutions. this requires a proper focus on research, and the creation of conditions for the private sector to work with researchers, so as to create a viable innovation sector that leads to sustainable use of resources. to learn how to do that, how to create a vibrant innovation sector, i think we could learn from some of the non-eu countries, in this case israel, which is doing very well in research and innovation cooperation.
i voted for this resolution because youth unemployment is one of the most pressing economic problems of recent years. the european commission's initiative to promote youth employment in other eu countries is to be welcomed. the large number of registrations shows that such a project was indeed necessary. however, i would like to draw attention to another aspect: the migration flows experienced in many member states of the european union, i.e. a large number of people of working age seeking work in other countries of the european union. i am certainly not calling for obstacles to this movement, since young people have the right to choose where to work and to fulfil themselves, but i am nevertheless calling for more attention and resources to be devoted to measures to promote youth entrepreneurship in their own countries and for employers to be encouraged to create jobs specifically for young people, so that young people are not forced to leave their countries of origin.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. macro-financial assistance (mfa) was launched in 1990 to provide financial assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. a total of 55 mff decisions have been approved so far for 23 countries, with a total commitment of eur 7.2 billion in grants and loans. it is important to provide for a formal legal instrument for mtfs to third parties and to provide for a faster and more efficient decision-making process for individual mtf actions. i agree with the proposal to update and clarify certain rules, in particular those relating to the geographical coverage of the mfp. as for the political conditions, i agree that the eu does not take them very much into account when providing mff. i therefore support the european parliament's proposals to give sufficient weight to the eu's democratic interests and to the respect of political conditions in the regulation, and in cases where these conditions are not respected to reduce or terminate aid. i also agree that the ep should approve every decision on mff and maintain effective oversight of the funding allocated.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the eu's macro-financial assistance (mfa) was launched in 1990 to provide financial assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. a total of 55 mff decisions have been approved so far for 23 countries, with a total commitment of eur 7.2 billion in grants and loans or a combination of both. eligible countries include candidate countries, potential candidate countries, countries participating in the enp and, in exceptional circumstances, other third countries close to the eu politically, economically and geographically. the regulation, drawn up in accordance with the geneva criteria, stipulates that mfa is granted on the condition that the country has effective democratic mechanisms, including multi-party parliamentary systems, respects the rule of law and respects human rights. the mfi criterion is based on the political, economic and geographical proximity of the countries to the european union and on the imf's system and financial discipline. the main objectives of the commission's proposal are to provide a formal legal instrument for mff to third countries, to provide for a faster, more efficient and more rational decision-making process for individual mff actions, to agree on the rules and conditions applicable to eu institutions (the ep should be involved in the development of these rules), to update and clarify some rules, in particular those relating to the geographical coverage of mff, and to align the decision-making on mff with other external financial assistance instruments.
in writing. − eu macro-financial assistance is a significant instrument that allows the eu to help third countries and territories meet the needs arising from sudden economic crises in an operational and add-on way, while strengthening commitments to the union's recognised common values of democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, combating forced child labour, sustainable development assistance, poverty reduction, the fight against corruption, and the principles of open, rules-based and fair trade. it is not a long-term measure, normally for three years, and may be revised if the need for funding decreases. it is important to set clear eligibility criteria for third countries and territories, to give additional powers to the commission, while ensuring democratic control through adequate and timely information to the european parliament and the presentation of an evaluation of implementation every four years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on ukraine because ukraine is a country of strategic importance to the european union. because of its size, abundance of resources, population and geographical location, ukraine occupies a unique position in europe and is a key regional player with a major impact on the security, stability and prosperity of the entire continent. ukraine has not yet implemented a comprehensive reform of some judicial systems and measures to ensure respect for the rule of law in criminal investigations and prosecutions, including fair, impartial and independent judicial processes. the prosecution and investigations shall be impartial and independent and shall not be used for political ends. the protection of human rights and the rule of law must be enshrined. strengthening the rule of law and an independent judiciary, as well as a strong fight against corruption, are crucial factors not only in strengthening eu-ukraine relations but also in consolidating democracy in ukraine. the eu and ukraine have agreed to cooperate in the fight against corruption and organised crime, including through the development of a comprehensive and effective criminal justice system.
in writing. − it is regrettable that ukraine did not take the eu's warning signals seriously and that a serious crisis of confidence arose as it entered the finish line on the association agreement. however, it should be avoided. it wouldn't be good for either side. the resolution is balanced in my view and makes clear what concrete steps the ep expects from ukraine. ukraine needs to make urgent efforts and implement substantial reforms to overcome the current situation: ensure a transparent and fair appeal process, abandon the relics of soviet law, carry out legal reform, guarantee freedom of the press and freedom of assembly. in the meantime, the eu must maintain dialogue and help ukraine to embark on a path of reform. the requirements for human rights standards must be consistent and applied equally to all partner countries, regardless of the level of cooperation.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on a resource-efficient europe, and in order to tackle urgent problems such as unemployment, the impact of inflation or fiscal deficits today, we need to look to the future and find new ways of using the resources available efficiently. i agree that we need to make better use of secondary raw materials in europe in general and to create the right incentives to avoid waste and reuse. we need to make the use of national resources and sustainability a top priority in innovation agendas at european and national level. we must change the way we value our wealth and economic growth in terms of environmental sustainability, natural wealth and sustainable use of resources. we need to set new product criteria for all products entering the european market by extending the scope of the ecodesign directive to include recycled content, durability and reuse. by using more sustainably, reducing waste, and better collecting and sorting waste, we can contribute to the well-being of our planet and all of us. sustainable use of resources is an integral part of the green economy. the eu should use its political and economic power to encourage other countries in the world to do the same. to ensure our own well-being and to enable future generations to reap the same benefits as we do, we must use resources in a way that respects the capacity of our planet.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur that we need to create a more resource-efficient europe. this is important for the eu's economic and ecological security. resource efficiency in lithuania is low. although energy intensity in lithuania is decreasing, it remains very high. according to a recent report published by the european environment agency, which is based on oecd statistics, energy efficiency and resource efficiency are almost 25% below the eu average. a more rational use of limited resources is not only a strategic necessity for lithuania, but also an economic opportunity. by using resources more efficiently, developing clearer long-term policies and investing together in green innovation, we would strengthen the basis for growth and jobs for our citizens and achieve our climate and energy goals. compared to other eu countries, lithuania lags far behind in terms of more resource-friendly waste generation municipal waste generation in lithuania is about 400 kg per person, 18% higher than the eu average. more sustainable consumption, reduced waste and better waste collection can make for a much more efficient use of resources. a eurobarometer survey earlier this year showed that most lithuanians would like to play a more active role in resource efficiency. now it is time for political leaders to do the same.
in writing. − i voted in favour because it is clear that the economic crisis in lithuania and across the eu has increased both overall and youth unemployment. in the eu, about 5.5 million young people are unemployed. many young people are not exploiting their learning potential or acquiring the skills that employers need. currently, 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are not in employment, education or training. youth unemployment in lithuania is one of the highest in the eu. one in three young people in lithuania is unemployed. only spain and greece have more young people out of work than lithuania. lithuania is 10% above the eu average for youth unemployment. the real change is to improve the conditions for job creation, to create an attractive business environment, to fundamentally change the tax system and to encourage initiatives, rather than offering one benefit and then immediately inventing ten barriers to access. youth unemployment, which is universally recognised as a major, long-term social problem, essentially raising a generation of unemployed, will not be effectively tackled without improving the social environment, creating a favourable system of housing credit, reducing bureaucratic and other obstacles to people wanting to start their own businesses. i think that a pact for growth would be much more necessary and effective at this time. savings alone are not enough to solve today's problems: equally important are investments in growth, jobs and the future for all of us - young people.
in writing. − the communication on new measures to reduce the gender pay gap, which was endorsed by the european parliament today, is of great importance. the fact that europe is trying to establish equal rights to fair pay for work, and research data still show a trend that women in the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men, and in some eu countries this gap is still widening is not acceptable. such results also show that the measures applied so far have not been effective enough and that it is necessary to look for those that could change the situation more effectively. discrimination in pay between men and women, the fragmentation of the labour market by gender and the undervaluation of women's work or entrenched stereotypes must be addressed. there is no doubt that employers are the main culprits in this situation in the labour market. therefore, i believe that in addition to proposing to the eu member states to monitor more closely the implementation of legislation governing the pay of men and women, measures such as sanctions, restrictions on the right to receive state aid and subsidies or to participate in public procurement are necessary. measures are needed to effectively encourage employers to avoid discrimination and to assess their employees fairly on the basis of their competence and performance rather than on the basis of gender.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the swiss quota for the issue of residence permits to citizens of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary, as the swiss federal council decided to apply quantitative restrictions to the issue of residence permits for up to five years for the citizens of these countries in category b as from 21 may 2012. in adopting this decision, the swiss authorities referred to the so-called safeguard clause contained in article 10 of the 1999 agreement, which allows switzerland to apply these restrictive measures if the number of residence permits granted in a given year exceeds the average of the three previous years by at least 10%. the swiss authorities have announced that this situation has arisen in the case of the eight eu member states concerned and that switzerland has therefore adopted the so-called additional measures provided for in the agreement on the free movement of persons. it is deeply regrettable that the swiss authorities have decided to re-impose quantitative restrictions on long-term residence permits for eu citizens who are nationals of the eight member states that joined the eu in 2004, thus restricting the free movement of persons provided for under the 1999 agreement with the eu. i believe that this decision may be discriminatory and illegal, as there is no legal basis for such a division by nationality in the existing swiss-eu treaties. the swiss authorities are therefore invited to reconsider their decision and to withdraw the safeguard clause. the commission should examine whether this decision is compatible with the agreement on the free movement of persons.
in writing. - i voted yes. it is important that the european parliament has made its position clear. it is regrettable that this is not the first time that we have had to deal with the issue of discrimination against workers from eight eu member states. the trend of trying to scapegoat workers from certain eu countries in times of economic hardship is very worrying. the decision of the swiss federal council is unfortunately based on stereotypes rather than economic logic. instead of recognising the contribution of these hardworking people to the country's economy, switzerland has chosen a path that violates bilateral agreements with the eu and the spirit of cooperation with the eu. the emergence of a category of eu countries whose citizens are considered second-class, inferior, cannot be allowed to continue. these countries are still referred to as 'new eu countries' or 'post-soviet countries', but their performance in dealing with the economic crisis, financial discipline, austerity policies is exemplary. the swiss government has taken the easy way out populist way, but in reality this measure is unlikely to have the desired effect. this decision creates unlawful differentiation and discrimination against eu citizens, but will not reduce immigration. it is likely that there will simply be a change in the direction of immigration flows, an increase in labour costs and a decrease in supply.
on behalf of the ppe group i commend the work of the inter-american commission on human rights in its consistent defence of human rights in the americas and urge it to continue this work to ensure human rights. i think we have to support regional human rights organisations and institutions because they are part of the international human rights system. at this time, the support of the member states of the european union and the institutions of the european union, as well as the european parliament, is of particular importance, and solidarity is particularly important, when we receive disturbing news of the possible withdrawal of venezuela from the commission on human rights of the americas. i want to emphasize that the decision of the venezuelan government to withdraw from this system would, in my view, greatly worsen the human rights situation, and i therefore urge and invite the leaders of venezuela to maintain their membership of the commission on human rights of the americas.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i really appreciate this opportunity for reflection on a very important issue. let me just start by mentioning that the commission congratulates mr kalfin on his important and – by the way – timely report. that needs to be underlined, for it is timely and it also opens the floor for a debate. i appreciate highly all that has been said here by members of this parliament for this is not only an issue that is heavy with facts and figures, but it is also a kind of trust and security for people who use the internet. as we say that every european should be connected and should be digital, then it is our responsibility – of parliament, the council and the commission – to provide trust and security, so to speak. as rightly acknowledged in this report, every day, the internet and the digital ecosystem boost productivity, drive innovation, and stimulate growth and high-quality jobs. at the same time, threats are growing and so is the vulnerability of our networks. since 2001, the commission has adopted a number of policy initiatives on network and information security to boost cooperation at eu level, with the involvement of member states and relevant stakeholders and with the support of enisa. this includes the action plan on critical information infrastructure protection (ciip) adopted by the commission in 2009 and revised in 2011. as you may know, the commission is aware that capabilities and preparedness across the eu vary considerably. i have been constantly monitoring the state of progress in the member states on the adoption of national cyber-security strategies and cyber-incident contingency plans, the organisation of national cyber exercises and the establishment of well functioning national/governmental certs, which as you are aware stands for ‘computer emergency response teams’. all those points are addressed in the report and, once again, great work has been done. this stocktaking exercise has demonstrated that, despite the efforts undertaken so far, we need to do more. we need to act strategically and give attention to cyber-security at the highest political level. parliament and relevant stakeholders have long called for the commission to adopt a strategic and comprehensive vision. your support will be crucial in the adoption and implementation of such a vision. in the coming months, i will present, together with high representative catherine ashton and my colleague commissioner cecilia malmström, a comprehensive european strategy for cyber-security. that cyber-security strategy will provide for both policy and regulatory measures. reaching a high level of network and information security across the eu is vital to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market. the measures that we will propose will aim at raising levels of security nationally as well as at eu level, by establishing appropriate mechanisms for cross-border cooperation as well as for public-private cooperation and information exchange. we need to make sure that there are no weak links across the eu. from the policy side, the vision should hinge on the need to improve the overall resilience of network and information systems, stepping up the fight against cybercrime, and developing an external eu cyber-security policy. we will ensure continuity with our policies and make steps forward on key areas such as fighting botnets, cyber-security of industrial control systems, smart grids and security standards, as well as on research and development, awareness-raising and international cooperation. the strategy will include actions to stimulate the competitiveness of the european ict industry and stimulate user demand to provide security functionalities in ict products and services. horizon 2020 will support the goals of the strategy. overall, the strategy will help europe put its own house in order. that will strongly contribute to better positioning the eu at international level also. i hope that you will agree that the strategy adequately responds to the recommendations provided in parliament’s ciip report.
in the modern world, energy has long been a global issue, and not just because of the resources themselves or their demand, but also because of environmental issues. i mean the extraction, the production, the transfer of energy. as we know, pollution ignores walls. it is therefore important that cooperation with third countries is aimed at ensuring that they meet the appropriate high environmental standards. one of the key issues in the european union's cooperation with foreign partners in the field of energy is the guarantee of a high level of nuclear safety, in line with european union standards. this should apply to the construction, refurbishment and direct operation of existing nuclear power plants in third countries. this should be a basic condition for importing electricity into the european union from nuclear power plants in third countries. the european union must pursue an open dialogue and nuclear producers in third countries must answer all questions. and now we are faced with the fact that the proposed construction of power plants on the borders of the european union raises some serious questions. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr e. herczog.
member of the commission. − mr president, a year ago there was a lot of anxiety about schengen. there was fear of unilateral actions on unclear grounds. there was uncertainty over how to act in cases of real persistent problems at borders and under what conditions borders could temporarily be reinstalled. the european council asked the commission to bring forward proposals to strengthen schengen and to enable it to deal with future crises. it asked for a european-based mechanism. in september last year, the commission brought forward such a proposal. it brought forward a proposal on a european-based evaluation to enable the commission, together with member state experts and their agencies, to detect problems early at our borders in order to be able to identify what could be done, to propose remedies, to activate all our tools and to present an action plan that would be compulsory and that the commission would monitor. this would replace the peer-to-peer review that we have today and which has proven to be quite useless. the legal basis for this would be article 77, because only then would there be a robust evaluation with binding impact and an increase in political legitimacy, as the european parliament would be a co-legislator. this is not just a legal proposal; it is also a political ambition. (applause) the other proposal was on the schengen border code, which is also a european mechanism for the reintroduction of borders as a last resort and is linked to the evaluation mechanism. such a situation might arise when everything else has been tried. member states are masters of their borders, but schengen is a joint european achievement and very much cherished by our citizens. new borders will affect citizens, business, trade, jobs and growth, and that is why any decision to reinstall borders cannot be taken unilaterally. it must be a european decision. on the commission side, there is clear disappointment at the decision by the council. it adds very little to current rules; we are creating a system where there is no real enforcement decision that can be followed up at eu level and it does not equip us to fight abuse or populist movements arising from domestic pressure. i appreciate the european parliament’s support for this and am convinced that the last has not been said on this matter. we also took note of the vote yesterday in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). the commission will work on this file together with parliament, and i count on parliament’s support to work towards a stronger schengen to the benefit of our citizens, where we defend security but also freedom of movement for citizens, business, jobs and growth so that we have clear and transparent european rules for evaluation and decision-making. (applause)
president of the council. i would like to thank you, mr president, for the very lively debate today and for the opportunity to report directly to parliament on the council's discussions on the schengen evaluation mechanism. i have listened very carefully to the arguments and views that have been put forward today and one point i would like to stress: all the questions of reintroduction of border controls which the honourable members have raised are covered by the ordinary legislative procedure. it is therefore a great misunderstanding that parliament has no influence on these matters. i think it is unjustified for anyone to try to make this a matter of a great battle between the council and parliament. the change in the legal basis was a necessary consequence of the compromise on the substance which the council was able to agree to. the council's discussions on the substance of the proposal made it very clear that the necessary majority could not be obtained for a proposal which could be kept within article 77. there can be no doubt that the council fully recognises that the council and parliament have an equal interest in ensuring a good and well-functioning schengen system. i would therefore like to acknowledge and thank parliament for the continuing drive it has shown in developing schengen cooperation. the european parliament has in many cases been a decisive factor in the continuous adaptation and development of cooperation, and it is therefore also to its credit that the schengen system has been equipped to meet the challenges that have constantly arisen. mr coelho has been the embodiment of this drive for many years, and it is my clear hope that we will also benefit from mr coelho's insight and commitment in the future. despite the differences that have been expressed today, i am sure that the crucial question for all of us is how we can together ensure a better framework and better governance for schengen cooperation. the council has now made its offer in the proposals agreed on thursday. the council and the danish presidency have been in constant dialogue with parliament on this matter and i feel that the many discussions we have had on all parts of the schengen governance package have been both constructive and fruitful. it was essential for the danish presidency to ensure that parliament's main wishes were reflected in the compromise agreed by the council. i believe that the presidency has been very successful in this respect and therefore the presidency also very much hopes that the final result for all parts of the schengen governance package will be satisfactory to both the council and parliament. the ball is now in parliament's court. as regards the frontier code, parliament will have to play its usual role as co-legislator. in relation to the schengen evaluation mechanism, parliament will be involved in the outcome of the council's negotiations. but as i stressed in my opening remarks, the council is open to a close dialogue on the whole package, not just the proposal on border controls but also the proposal on the evaluation mechanism. the council's discussions last week made it clear that it wishes to take the utmost account of the views expressed by parliament in the course of the consultation. let me be very clear: the council has the greatest possible desire and the strongest possible will to enter into a close dialogue with parliament on this matter. let no one doubt the council's best intentions! the reality is that only if the council and parliament join forces can we achieve the results that are absolutely necessary and that are also expected of us. i look forward to further cooperation on this matter and to entering into a close and constructive dialogue with parliament. i know that this also applies to the next presidency. i now look very much forward to parliament making a formal offer on how you see the matter. i would like to take back to the council the many statements that have come here today and then i would like to thank you again for the opportunity to be here today to explain in detail the council's deliberations on this matter.
president of the council. mr president, i would just like to take this opportunity - now that mr coelho has spoken - to thank him for the close cooperation we have had and for the fact that mr coelho has been a close sparring partner of the danish presidency on the proposal for a long time, and for the fact that it is acknowledged that the presidency has also listened. the views will now be taken back to the council and i hope that from here we can continue to work in a constructive dialogue to ensure that we get what we all have an interest in, namely a dialogue on how to strengthen schengen cooperation.
in writing. a year ago, the council condemned unilateral actions by states to re-establish border controls and instructed the commission to make concrete proposals on how to strengthen the protection of the schengen area and the management of the eu's external borders. however, it is now becoming clear that governments do not value the schengen area as a common european achievement or a common value. member states do not want to introduce a centralised eu-level border management mechanism, as proposed by the european commission and supported by the european parliament on several occasions. it would seem unacceptable for heads of government to have an independent and impartial arbiter to monitor member states' compliance with the provisions of schengen law. i believe that in order to ensure the continued success of the free movement area in the european union, it is absolutely essential to seek the establishment of an independent evaluation and monitoring mechanism whose operation is based on democratic principles. this is precisely why it is illogical to allow member states to assess the implementation of their own border controls, especially those of the countries which are at the eu's external borders, where controls must be more stringent. i believe that the events of the past year have precisely highlighted the shortcomings of the current mechanism whereby member states have a say. as nationalist movements emerge more frequently and strongly in europe, trust between member states will soon be eroded. i therefore hope that the measures we, the european parliament, will take will be effective and that eu citizens will continue to enjoy freedom of movement without restriction.
today we are returning to the debate on the adoption of appropriate european union measures to coordinate and monitor the budgetary and economic policies of the member states. last year we adopted a six-point legislative package that tried to tighten the policies of certain countries, but today it is clear that this is no longer enough to preserve economic stability not only in the euro area but also beyond it. we must therefore not only concentrate on austerity measures, as many have said here, but we must also look for other solutions that will give hope of economic recovery and the creation of new jobs. it is therefore to be hoped that these two pieces of legislation will really solve this problem and that we can expect in the future greater integration of all the countries in terms of budgetary approval and economic coherence of their actions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which will provide financial support from the european globalisation adjustment fund to the unemployed in spain. the financial support will be granted to 876 redundancies in 146 companies active in the leather and leather goods sector in the valencia region. this support is intended to help people who have lost their jobs as a result of the global economic crisis to re-enter the labour market. since the application meets the criteria for granting the aid, i have approved the allocation of eur 1 631 565 million from the above-mentioned fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the european union has put in place appropriate legislative and budgetary measures to provide additional support to workers who have suffered damage as a result of major structural changes in world trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. in this case, spain submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in 146 enterprises active in the leather and leather goods sector in the valencia region. the footwear sector employed 26% of the total workforce in the valencian region and was therefore an important factor in the local economy, dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises in traditional sectors such as textiles, footwear and ceramics. this application was found to comply with the requirements for financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposed to mobilise an amount of eur 1 631 565.
in writing. − the floods in liguria and tuscany, italy, in october 2011 caused severe damage to these regions, causing significant damage to residential, commercial and agricultural buildings, and destroying key transport links and key public infrastructure networks. the italian authorities estimate that the total direct damage caused by the floods amounts to approximately eur 722,5 million. i voted in favour of the inclusion of eur 18 061 682 in the 2012 eu budget. i believe that in the future the eu needs to respond more quickly and effectively to the disaster relief of member states, and i therefore support the review of the principles for the coordination and allocation of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report as draft amending budget no 2 (db) for 2012 provided for the mobilisation of eur 18 061 682 from the eu solidarity fund (esf) in commitment and payment appropriations in response to the floods in italy (liguria and tuscany) in october 2011. it is essential to provide rapid financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters through the european union solidarity fund. the aim of the draft amending budget is to formally incorporate this amending budget into the 2012 budget. the draft amending budget presented by the commission proposes to increase the level of payment appropriations, as there is no possible source of reallocation of the necessary payment appropriations at this early stage of the year. the council also amended the commission proposal when the commission indicated in its request for transfer of appropriations dec 9/2012 possible sources of redistribution of the required amount.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as draft amending budget no 2/2012 provides for the mobilisation of eur 18 061 682 from the european union solidarity fund in commitment and payment appropriations to mitigate the consequences of the floods in italy (liguria and tuscany) in october 2011. draft amending budget no 2/2012 aims to formally incorporate this amending budget into the 2012 budget. i agree that it is very important to provide rapid financial assistance to countries affected by natural disasters through the use of the essf, and it is therefore very regrettable that in the specific case provided for in draft amending budget no 2/2012, the other budgetary authority waited 8 weeks before adopting its position, without departing from its interpretation of protocol 1 to the treaty on the functioning of the european union (the deadline for informing national parliaments). all stakeholders in the member states, i.e. at both local and regional levels, and national authorities should better assess the needs and coordination of possible future mobilisation of esf funds with a view to accelerating that mobilisation as much as possible.
in writing. − the floods in liguria and tuscany, italy, in october 2011 caused severe damage to these regions, causing significant damage to residential, commercial and agricultural buildings, and destroying key transport links and key public infrastructure networks. the italian authorities estimate that the total direct damage caused by the floods amounts to approximately eur 722,5 million. i have approved the allocation of eur 18 061 682 from the eu solidarity fund to help mitigate the consequences of the floods. i believe that in the future the eu needs to respond more quickly and effectively to the disaster relief of member states, and i therefore support the review of the principles for the coordination and allocation of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report of the european parliament because the commission proposes to grant financial assistance to italy from the european union solidarity fund under point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the interinstitutional agreement (ia) provides for the possibility of mobilising the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this is the first call for funds in 2012. at the same time as this proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund for italy, the commission also presented a draft amending budget to include the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2012 budget. italy submitted an application for assistance from the fund following the floods that devastated the regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011, causing significant damage to residential, commercial and agricultural buildings and destroying key transport links and key public infrastructure networks. the disaster is classified as a natural disaster and falls within the scope of the european union solidarity fund. the commission confirmed that this proposal met the eligibility criteria and proposed to use the funds for commitment and payment appropriations from the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. − i have approved the provision in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations from the european union solidarity fund, in view of the request made by italy to mobilise the fund in response to the floods in liguria and tuscany.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. during the economic and financial crisis, financial support from the fund could also be granted to people made redundant as a result of the crisis. the egf regulation provides for the possibility to allocate each year 0,3% of the annual maximum amount of the egf to technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. in the light of this provision, i have approved the allocation of eur 1,12 million from the egf to ensure the proper implementation of the egf regulation. however, the commission must also take into account the requests of the european parliament, in particular in terms of saving money in the areas of administrative and technical assistance, the creation of a knowledge base and ensuring effective monitoring. i am disappointed by the council's decision not to extend the authorisation of the crisis derogation, which allowed for additional financial assistance to staff made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis, and to increase the level of eu funding to 65% of the cost of the programme. i consider that, in view of the continuing difficult economic situation and the high level of unemployment in the member states, it is necessary to extend the validity of this exceptional provision.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. one of the eu's foreign policy objectives is to develop relations and build partnerships with third countries to promote the economic, social and environmental sustainability of developing countries. the lisbon treaty provides for the common objective of development cooperation to be to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic and social development and to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs) by 2015. i agree with the call made by the european parliament for the need to explore new ways of developing cooperation between the eu and the latin american region in the negotiations on the next financial instrument for development cooperation for 2014-2020. i agree with the need to help latin american countries to pursue fairer fiscal policies, to strengthen tax capacity and to fight fraud and tax evasion, to allocate 20% of eu funds to education and health programmes and to expand the various programmes aimed at strengthening eu-latin american dialogue and cooperation. i believe that the new financial instrument for development cooperation should focus on the fight against poverty and the implementation of the objectives of the imp, in particular by supporting regional, fiscal and tax policies and by promoting social services, science and innovation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because latin america and the eu are pursuing a strategic partnership between the two regions based on shared values and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu cannot fail to consider latin america as a priority, and this is reflected in the eu-latin america interregional relations, which have made considerable progress in developing in recent years. the lisbon treaty also provides for a common objective for development cooperation: eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable economic and social development, as well as achieving the millennium development goals (mdgs) by 2015. the latin american region is among the middle-income countries that have made significant progress in reducing poverty and inequality through economic growth and political and social reforms, but despite this, one in three latin american people still live below the poverty line and ten of the region's countries remain among the 15 most unequal countries in the world. the eu must cooperate with all latin american countries, taking the lead in south-south cooperation and the fight against poverty. social cohesion has been the main objective of the strategic partnership since its inception.
in writing. − i supported the document as the eu's development cooperation policy should be defined in close consultation with latin america in order to form a sustainable, fair and well-coordinated development policy for the region. in order to align latin american and eu development policies, latin america must make a special effort to promote the political, economic and trade integration of its region. the lisbon treaty sets the common objective of development cooperation as 'the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable economic and social development, and the achievement of the millennium development goals (mdgs) by 2015'. latin america and the eu are pursuing a strategic partnership between the two regions based on shared values and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. two of the eu's nine strategic partners in the world are in latin america (brazil and mexico), and the eu is its largest investor and second largest trading partner, as well as its main provider of development aid. most of the world's poor live in these middle-income countries. these countries often face glaring inequalities and weak governance that threaten the sustainability of their own development process. middle-income countries play a key role in global politics, security and trade, and in the production and protection of shared global public goods. after periods of economic prosperity, they are still vulnerable to global economic, environmental or security threats. support for these middle-income countries is important for achieving the mdgs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european year of volunteering 2011 was launched to raise public awareness of this important area and to encourage volunteering, especially among young people and older people. the number of people engaged in volunteering varies significantly between member states, and some of them do not have a clear and voluntary legal framework to encourage the growth of volunteering and the recognition of volunteers' rights. volunteering is essential to promote social change and solidarity between generations, to help older people make the transition from work to retirement easier, to reduce social exclusion and to promote greater inclusion of young people in society and social processes. however, in order to fully exploit the benefits of volunteering, it is necessary to remove existing barriers, especially for young people, to engage in volunteering both within their own member states and to promote volunteering across borders, and to ensure the recognition of skills and competences through non-formal education and work experience. i therefore fully support the call for the commission to take immediate action to ensure that the european skills passport is introduced as soon as possible, which will provide greater social security, especially for young people, and encourage them to take part more actively in voluntary activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the initiatives for the voluntary year for active citizenship (2011) have been successfully implemented at european, national and regional levels and there is therefore a need to highlight the value of volunteering clearly and unambiguously. the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations 2012 will be another important occasion to assess the importance of volunteering in everyday life and to enable older people to contribute to the development of a community of solidarity. volunteering non-formal learning experiences for people of all ages. its benefits relate to personal development, the strengthening of democracy, civic values, social solidarity, more active participation in democratic activities, knowledge of other cultures and the acquisition of social and professional skills. moreover, these activities contribute to the eu's policy ambitions in the fields of social inclusion and anti-discrimination, employment, education, culture, skills and citizenship. this is an important factor in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour as the commission is called upon to implement the european skills passport as soon as possible, as the skills acquired through volunteering are also very important in professional life and provide added value to the cv, and it is clear that volunteering can help young people to choose their career path. the creation of a european skills passport will ensure the recognition of professional qualifications at cross-border level and will help individuals to document the competences and skills acquired through their participation in voluntary activities. the passport will be based on the europass model (a european standard cv to be completed online) and will allow skills to be recorded in a transparent and comparable way: volunteering needs to be more recognised by society as a useful experience for young people to acquire skills that they can use in areas such as education and employment. volunteering is an important factor in generating social capital, promoting development and economic and social cohesion, taking into account non-formal learning opportunities, in order to help volunteers acquire skills that will increase their employability and thus contribute to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − volunteering is growing both in europe and worldwide. young people choose volunteering for a variety of reasons, from helping those in need to broadening their horizons and improving their skills, to improving their chances of entering the labour market for the first time or re-entering it in the future. unfortunately, bureaucratic or other constraints do not always allow volunteers to make the most of their opportunities. it is therefore essential to reduce the bureaucratic obstacles that hinder volunteering outside the home member state. the full inclusion of voluntary work in the total length of service would also be a crucial step.
in writing. − european action on volunteering is necessary, we have to support this comprehensive instrument which promotes european values, intercultural exchanges, learning of languages, young employment, active ageing. i consider harmonization of cross-border volunteering in the eu as important as erasmus program for higher education. in order to promote cross-border volunteering member states should apply the same approach. volunteers need european recognition of their experience, of their new skills, respect to their work. i support measures proposed by rapporteur to create “skills passport” and to include acquired skills in the ects. support for volunteering organizations is necessary as well and i welcome measures proposed in this document.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, the percentage of lithuanians engaged in voluntary activities is much lower than in other eu countries. according to a report by the european commission, less than 10% of lithuanians volunteer periodically, compared with 40% of austrians, swedes and britons. most lithuanians who volunteer are usually between 15 and 19 years old, and this is also the case in relation to school activities. lithuania's rate is also well below the eu average (23%). in some cases, the difference is very large - more than 15% of irish and finns volunteer in sport. in lithuania, the figure is only 0.1%. why is the rate of voluntary activity so low in lithuania? this is partly due to the poorly developed voluntary sector in lithuania. a survey by vilnius university revealed that 26% of lithuanians do not know where and how to participate in volunteering programmes. lithuanians lack guidance and structure from state leaders who have abandoned civil society. i believe that volunteering opportunities are important for lithuanian society as an expression of citizens' activity in all areas of social life. volunteering is important for the development of democratic values, human dignity and equality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. today, the internet and computer technologies are becoming an integral part of economic, political and social development, making cybersecurity a major political priority in the eu and globally. the europe 2020 strategy includes the eu digital agenda, which sets the eu's technological development goals. the development, use and deployment of technologies depend on their safety and reliability, which must be improved. to this end, i support the proposals to establish effective national certs (networks of computer incident investigation services), develop national cybersecurity strategies, ensure effective coordination between national and eu relevant services through the european network and information security agency (enisa) and implement the already adopted eu programmes to enhance cybersecurity.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the role of technology has increased significantly in all areas of our daily lives: from communications to finance and banking, from transport to energy, from culture and entertainment to health. the full potential of information and communication technologies (ict) can only be realised if consumers have confidence and trust in their security and resilience and if effective enforcement of existing legislation on data privacy and intellectual property rights is ensured.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because, in an age of increasing use of the internet and computer technology, internet security is becoming a top political priority for the eu and the world. the increasing use and deployment of innovative technologies such as high-speed and ultra-high-speed fixed and mobile internet and core networks, smart electricity networks, as well as internet services such as remote computing services and the internet of things, depend on one simple but very important aspect: security, resilience and reliability. it is clear that the internet is a critical infrastructure and that disruptions to its operation can lead to significant losses and security risks, which would affect a very large number of european citizens and businesses. furthermore, rapid technological developments require the prevention of cyber-attacks and remedial action and the resilience of the global network should be based on a comprehensive, responsive, flexible, innovative and long-term system. it is necessary to ensure effective cooperation between governments, businesses, individuals and all other stakeholders through this system. equally important, the resilience of the internet can only be enhanced through an effective framework of international cooperation and international norms.
in writing. − as the events in estonia a few years ago and the constant hacking of websites and databases of important public and private institutions have shown, we are entering a new phase in life where threats to our security are no longer physical but virtual. i therefore support the report's call for greater attention to be paid to this, for a joint eu force to be built up and for crossborder cooperation to be promoted, ensuring that critical infrastructure is protected not only physically but also in computer networks. at the same time, i would like to recall that this protection must be proportionate to the other values recognised and protected in the european union, in particular the protection of personal data and privacy.
in writing. − cyber-security more and more becomes a concern for members states and for ordinary citizens. the eu tries to achieve a better connectivity among the eu states and its citizens, so naturally it has to take necessary measures to protect them as well. it is a inclusive issue balancing between the respect for human rights and need to intervene. i voted in favor of this report, because i consider particularly important the cooperation and information sharing among eu member states regarding the fight against cyber crimes. information technologies make people in europe and all over the world closer. challenges do not respect borders, and we have to harmonize international cyber-security environment. i support the proposal to advance the legislation on cyber crimes. in order to assure due level of protection and security the eu has to manage risks, not just to respond to challenges.
in writing. − cybercrime is a major problem for lithuania not only for our public institutions, but also for ordinary citizens. the cyberattack on the bank of lithuania a few months ago showed that lithuania had failed to learn from previous attacks on our institutions four years ago, which temporarily paralysed the government and industry. more than 55% of lithuanians use online banking, shop or plan holidays online. with the increase in the use of the internet in everyday life, organised crime in lithuania is also increasing, and these crimes are reflected in the entire lithuanian society. according to a study by yahoo!, lithuania has one of the highest rates of online fraud in the world, alongside nigeria, colombia and romania. another new report revealed that organised crime groups sell credit card data for €1 and bank account data for €60. this is not just a problem in lithuania. about one million eu citizens are victims of cybercrime every day. norton, the maker of antivirus software, estimates that cybercrime costs nearly $388 billion a year. as the rapporteur notes, cybercriminals are invisible and often go unpunished. only coordinated action will stop the perpetrators and reduce the risks of cyberspace.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is essential to ensure that the european union fully develops its crossborder energy infrastructure and that energy policy is an integral part of the eu's foreign policy. the eu is one of the largest energy buyers in the global energy market and, in order to give it a strong role in international energy relations, it is important to create a well-functioning internal market that creates more competition with external partners. i am in favour of closer cooperation with supplier countries and international organisations and the development of the european energy network and of links with neighbouring countries (the western balkans, the eastern neighbourhood, the caspian countries, north africa and the middle east) by creating new links. i agree that the eu should concentrate its efforts on research, technological development and innovation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in order to address the common global energy challenges and to achieve the eu's ambitious energy and climate change objectives, the european union needs to take joint, effective and equitable action at international level, in particular by strengthening the external dimension of its energy policy and by taking a united position to increase the diversification of energy sources, enhance security of supply and support sustainable production and consumption. the eu can and should continue to foster existing priority areas through cooperation in the field of external energy policy. only a fully integrated european energy market, based on the principle of solidarity, can adequately address the challenges to energy security arising from the different structure and share of energy imports in the various member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour because energy has become a powerful foreign policy weapon today. given the importance of energy in our daily lives, it should be considered a commodity for consumption rather than a tool for foreign policy. the eu must take into account all aspects of our energy security. europe is one of the largest energy buyers on the global energy market. this status could be seen as a weakness, but it could also be one of our strengths: we are the largest importers and if we took advantage of this by coordinating our actions at eu level and maintaining a firm common position in negotiations with third countries, we would always have a good negotiating position and could use our strength as a strong market player. in shaping european energy policy, we should seek a common approach, extending our sphere of influence beyond europe, especially in the case of energy market rules. it is necessary to create a well-functioning internal market that creates more competition for our external partners. we should promote regulatory convergence with our neighbours. ensuring reliable, competitive access to global energy resources is necessary to promote european competitiveness and security in line with the eu policy objectives set out in the 2020 package and the long-term commitment to achieve the lowest carbon economy by 2050. a coherent and coordinated approach by the member states, the commission and the council will allow the eu's external energy objectives to be effectively achieved and will contribute to a better negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries.
in writing. − in today's world, energy is becoming global we import both energy sources and energy itself from third countries. however, energy is closely linked to environmental protection, as natural resources are used and other environmental impacts are generated in the extraction, production and transmission of energy. this impact is also felt in eu countries. it is therefore important to cooperate with third countries to ensure that they comply with relevant environmental standards. first of all, i am talking about nuclear energy, whose environmental impact could be catastrophic in the event of an accident. therefore, one of the key issues in eu cooperation with foreign energy partners is to ensure a high level of nuclear safety, in line with eu standards, for the construction, refurbishment and direct operation of existing power plants in third countries. this should be a basic condition for importing electricity into the european union from nuclear power plants in third countries.
in writing. − given the union's high dependence on energy imports increased diversification of supply sources and transit routes and the development of eu sources of renewable energy is an urgent and essential element supporting the union's external energy security policy. energy policy must become an integrated and prominent part of the common foreign policy and should be elaborated and implemented in synergy with other policies that have an external dimension. i voted in favour of this report, because i agree that external energy policy cooperation must contribute to the promotion of the core values of the union including responsible use of natural resources, fight against climate change, and comprehensive protection of the environment, promote establishing peace and be coherent with the union's foreign policies. i support the rapporteur that the commission should monitor and enforce the highest international safety standards of nuclear power plants in countries neighbouring eu using all available instruments and treaties. eu should again call the neighbouring states to perform comprehensive eu nuclear safety and risk stress tests.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the appointment of an eu special representative on human rights has long been a strategic objective of parliament. that is why we are delighted that the appointment of such a representative is imminent. we look forward to frequent exchanges with the appointee. it is our hope that such a position will help to ensure that human rights feature even more prominently in our external action, and will help further consolidate our credibility in this field. the eu special representative (sr) will have to find his or her place in a complex institutional setting. moreover, the challenges in the field of human rights are many and varied, so the appointee will have to hit the ground running. despite the plethora of competing issues, i hope that the case of tibet will feature prominently among the priority issues to be tackled. also, in anticipation of this afternoon’s debate, i must emphasise that the human rights situation in tibet deserves particular attention. freedom of conscience and belief is very close to my group’s heart. we therefore hope that the eu sr will pay particular attention to the plight and self-immolations of the monks who are subject to the restrictive policies of the chinese authorities. we are worried about the lack of progress and, indeed, worsening repression, and believe that we will perhaps eventually have to consider the appointment of a specific eu sr on tibet. from an institutional perspective, the recommendation that there should be an eu special representative on human rights is obviously only one part of the ongoing review of the eu’s overall human rights strategy, where we are mobilising our potential and political will and increasing interinstitutional preparations to become even more effective on the world stage. meps from a wide spectrum of political groups desire to work towards some form of joint interinstitutional document, an ambitious and united declaration, much like the european consensus on development, which defines the framework of common principles within which the eu and its member states implement their development policies. we need to strive towards a european consensus on human rights which will set out our common vision on the promotion of human rights in the world, with concrete steps on how to achieve our goals. only as ethical partners in the field of human rights will we ever be truly effective as a union. i look forward to working with the different institutions on this in the future.
for the alde group the annual human rights report is always a unique opportunity for the european union, its politicians and human rights defenders to articulate a world vision for which liberal democracies are willing to wage ideological battles that bring us closer to a reality in which cooperation and partnership between states are based not only on economic capacity, rich natural resources, security interests and wise compromises between historical and modern exceptions, but above all on the universal recognition that the value of human life, dignity and rights are essential and fundamental criteria for the civility and credibility of the state, that human rights are not and cannot be the object of negotiation or economic collateral. we had a historic opportunity to see that the quest for freedom and dignity is not just an invention of the modern western world, that it is a universal human quest, spontaneous and momentary, even without any sophisticated politics and philosophy, that unites humanity around the world. this is the arab spring, with its great force of freedom and democracy, which can rightly be compared with such great events in our recent history as the freedom struggles of the peoples of eastern europe and the great human rights movements from andrei sakharov and his comrades in russia to solidarity in poland. as a future rapporteur, i will have the difficult task of trying to assess the lessons learned in europe from the arab spring and to analyse the implications of these lessons for the future of the european union's overall human rights policy. both the arab spring and other events of the past year have increasingly revealed the power of information technology and the importance of the word, media and social media for democratic revolutions and the advancement of democracy. i cannot therefore fail to mention in my report the important events of the past year in belarus and the very bad human rights situation in tibet, which is of concern to my group and, i think, to the whole of parliament and which must be addressed at european union level. mr president, madam president-in-office, the annual report on human rights and the european parliament's cooperation with you must be an opportunity to look boldly ahead to the future of europe and the world, because, let us be frank and not hide this, the retrospective speech in the report on the state of the world in 2011 will be nothing but a speech on the future of the world and strategies for humanity.
in writing. europe is now ready to change course and to take the difficult but necessary decisions that have been taken too slowly and hesitantly. with investors losing confidence in the markets and new member states queuing up for financial assistance, there are still doubts about the necessity of solutions such as the debt-reduction fund or eurobonds. i commend the commission for its proposals on the banking union and its determination to strike a balance between budgetary discipline and long-term growth and job creation. however, i am missing an essential commitment to fight fraud more actively in the member states. the situation is unjustified, since the commission is not aware of the real fraudulent intent, since the member states do not provide the necessary data. the fight against fraud must be strengthened and the commission must take responsibility for the misuse of funds and their recovery in the eu budget. when we talk about economic recovery, we must not forget the need to protect our markets from excessive influence from third countries. the openness of the eu market benefits operators in third countries, and our operators in those countries operate under more difficult conditions than those of the local operators. we have thus reduced our competitiveness and narrowed the labour and business market to our own citizens. i believe that the fight against fraud and the protection of the market must be one of the cornerstones of future initiatives and strategies that will ensure a more stable and faster economic recovery in the long term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report of the european parliament because the proposal to appoint mr ivanov as a member of the court of auditors was welcomed by the committee on budgetary control of the ep. the committee assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the requirements laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. iliana ivanova has 12 years of work and policy experience in the public and private sectors related to governance, audit and accountability. after focusing on financial management and accountability issues, she developed her professional experience in major banking and financial institutions. in 2009, iliana ivanova became a member of the european parliament and a full member and vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control. it is also rapporteur for a number of committee on budgetary control documents, such as the 2010 annual report of the eib, the regulation on the 'hercule iii' programme to promote the protection of the financial interests of the european union, the regulation on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy, the opinion on innovative financial instruments under the next multiannual programme, and others.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i support closer cooperation between the eu and the un general assembly, which enables the eu to strengthen its global role by presenting its position more clearly and effectively. i agree with the suggestions made that a long-term strategy for membership of the united nations should be developed to raise awareness of eu action, to involve civil society and international and regional organisations in eu-un cooperation, and to integrate human rights into all areas of un activity. it is also important to develop partnerships with the un, the osce, the african union and the arab league in the areas of conflict prevention and civil and military crisis management and to ensure that the share of overall european development assistance is not reduced and is focused on poverty reduction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because, in order to tackle the global challenges that are emerging together and to counter the negative effects of the global economic crisis, effective decision-making systems are increasingly needed in an international organisation such as the united nations. to remain a major player in a world where increasingly powerful centres are emerging and where globally coordinated action is required, the member states of the european union must coordinate their actions in international organisations and international conferences, in accordance with the treaties. the european union is also committed to effective multilateralism, based on a strong united nations, as this is essential to effectively tackle global challenges. justice and the rule of law are the pillars of lasting peace, guaranteeing human rights and fundamental freedoms. a strong and stable partnership between the european union and the united nations is therefore essential to the work of the united nations under all three pillars of peace and security, human rights and development, and is crucial to consolidating the role of the european union as a global actor.
in writing. − i support the report containing detailed recommendations for improvement of the global governance helping to promote eu values, preserve our world and improve quality of life for millions of people. the european union is one of the world's biggest democracy, peace, human rights promoter and development supporter. we have to use opportunities offered by the un at the global level to strengthen our foreign policy and achieve its goals more effectively. on the other hand, the eu can increase the effectiveness of the un. the eu should take advantage of its experience, take leading role in strengthening cooperation between different un organs and other stakeholders and put this common potential into action. the joint global action is needed in many fields in many places in the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the current system of preferential common customs tariffs was established back in 2008 and i believe that it should be improved and adapted to today's needs. the aim of this trade facility is to enable developing countries to participate more actively in international trade and to obtain additional export revenues. a number of important changes to the system should be made in order to ensure that import preferences are granted to those countries which really need them. i agree that the preferences for countries that use alternative preferential instruments and for countries that the world bank classifies as high-income countries should be abolished. i also believe that certain products should not be covered by the gsp if they become highly competitive on the eu market. as regards the poorer countries, i agree that the benefits should be increased and the product coverage extended. as regards gsp+, i agree with the new criteria set by the commission, it is important that more countries are included in gsp+.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament report because the common preferential tariff (cft) is one of the eu's trade instruments for promoting sustainable development in developing countries, poverty reduction and respect for human rights. since 1971, the european union has applied unilateral trade preferences under the gsp in the form of reduced tariffs to goods from developing countries entering the european market. the gsp forms part of its common commercial policy. this important trade instrument aims to enable developing countries to participate more actively in international trade and to obtain additional export revenues, as well as to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policies. the last system was established in 2008 and therefore needs to be revised. the new legislative proposal maintains the general structure mentioned above, but provides for some changes to the system of imports from developing countries in order to give import preferences to those countries which really need them. in practice, this means that the benefits are withdrawn for some countries and extended to those countries that remain under the scheme.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's proposal to encourage aid to the poorest countries and at the same time to strengthen the safeguards to protect the eu textile and clothing industry against the import of goods from third countries. the rapporteur notes that this is a very late step, the first time that the european parliament has used its power under the lisbon treaty to legislate on the common tariff preferences. the lithuanian textile industry, which employs 25 000 people, remains one of the cheapest producers in the eu. the changes proposed in the communication would help the lithuanian textile industry to increase its competitiveness. lithuanian textile producers play an important role in our economy, exporting more than 80% of their production. however, in recent years they have not reached their full potential. lithuania's tradition of high-quality industrial production is linked to its strategic transport and logistics infrastructure, which means that the lithuanian sector can do better. i strongly support my colleagues in the alde group in the need to update the tariff system to reflect the latest developments in the world economy, for example by removing the preferences for eu imports from countries on the world bank's list of countries with per capita income (including brazil, kuwait, saudi arabia and qatar).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. excessive national debt can have serious consequences for those countries and for other eu member states. in order to avoid severe economic and social consequences and to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the euro area, serious measures are needed, and i therefore agree with the adoption of the two pieces of legislation under discussion in the six-pack. i believe that member states should consult the commission in advance on important economic or fiscal policy reforms in order to assess their potential impact on the euro area as a whole. it is important to coordinate the preparation of national budgets by establishing a common timetable for all countries, which should ensure that budgetary countries take timely account of european recommendations and national reform programmes. in addition, a euro area member state in severe economic difficulties would be required to submit a detailed borrowing plan to the commission.
in writing. − i voted for this document because excessive national debt can have serious consequences for the member states themselves and for other eu member states. the reputation of the euro area is more at stake than its very survival. the commission proposal complements the six-pack of eu economic governance legislation adopted by the ep and the council in 2011. the substance of the proposed regulation a member state whose currency is the euro should be subject to enhanced surveillance if it is experiencing or is at risk of experiencing serious financial difficulties. a rapid return to normalcy should be ensured and other euro area member states protected from possible adverse spill-over effects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree that it is necessary to provide for additional eu measures to coordinate and monitor the budgetary and economic policies of the member states. i agree that member states need to comply with the stability and growth pact (sgp) and improve the coordination of their fiscal policies. member states should exercise caution during periods of fiscal upswing and should build up sufficient reserves for periods of downturn.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because each of the member states whose currency is the euro should consult the commission and the other member states whose currency is the euro before adopting any major plans for fiscal policy reforms that may have side effects, in order to assess their possible impact on the euro area as a whole. they should regard their budgetary plans as being of common interest and submit them to the commission in advance for monitoring purposes before they become binding. the commission should be able to deliver, where appropriate, its opinion on the draft budgetary plan, which the member state and, in particular, the budgetary authority are invited to take into account when adopting the budgetary law. member states whose currency is the euro and which are subject to an excessive deficit procedure should be monitored more closely to ensure that the excessive deficit situation is corrected in a complete and timely manner. closer monitoring should ensure early correction of any deviation from the council recommendations to correct the excessive deficit situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the arab spring in the southern and eastern mediterranean countries and their hopes for a transition to a well-functioning democracy must be addressed. i support the geographical extension of the european bank for reconstruction and development to these countries. i believe that the projects financed by the erdf in these countries will provide a solid foundation for an open market-oriented economy. as the mediterranean countries are very different from the eastern bloc countries where the ebrd has traditionally been active, i believe that the ebrd should carry out a rigorous technical assessment of each country before starting operations. i agree that, pending the entry into force of the amendment to the agreement establishing the escb to include the mediterranean countries, article 18 of the agreement establishing the escb should be amended to allow the escb to carry out operations financed from the special-purpose funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in contributing to economic progress and reconstruction, the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) aims to support the transition to an open, market-oriented economy and to promote private and business initiative in central and eastern european countries that are committed to and put into practice the principles of multi-party democracy, pluralism and market economy. in its operations in the countries where it operates, the eib has built up unique experience in supporting public and financial sector reforms, promoting smes and privatising state-owned enterprises. the european union must therefore take effective policy measures in response to the events of 2011 in our mediterranean partners. the european union's strong political and economic support for the region is expressed, including through the possibility of extending the mandate of the ebrd to the southern neighbourhood, building on its experience in promoting the transition to an open, market-oriented economy over the past 20 years. in order to ensure the efficient functioning of the erdf, operations should also be carried out in the southern and eastern mediterranean countries and the dedicated funds should be available to countries that are potential beneficiaries. one of the main objectives of this proposal is to promote prosperity outside the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as in may 2011 the leaders of the g8 countries initiated the davos partnership, which aims to help the southern and eastern mediterranean countries in their transition towards a free, democratic and tolerant society, and called on the erc to expand its geographical reach to draw on its experience and support the changes taking place in those countries to respect the principles of multi-party democracy, pluralism and market economy. given the vulnerability of emerging economies and social inequalities, which is one of the main causes of the arab spring unrest, the representatives of the union in the governance bodies of the eib should encourage the eib to focus on other issues in the area of private sector development, so that financing also contributes to the creation of socially and environmentally sustainable societies, as set out in the relevant millennium development goals. in particular, the representatives of the union in the governing bodies of the esrb should encourage the esrb to contribute to the transition towards an energy-efficient and socially integrated open market economy, while taking into account the social, poverty, civil society and human rights situation.
in writing. - i voted yes. the eu is actively seeking to help the arab spring countries maintain the direction and momentum of economic and social reforms. the expanded mandate of the eib in the mediterranean countries will provide an additional instrument for the eu to contribute to the realisation of the aspirations of the societies of these countries. the experience gained by the ebrd in its work in eastern european and central asian countries during the transition period is valuable and can be used to identify priority areas of activity and key risks. particular attention should be paid to transparency, sustainability, the promotion of equal opportunities and the reduction of social exclusion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. without adequate funding from the eu budget, it will not be possible to achieve the overall eu policy objectives and the europe 2020 strategy to help europe recover from the crisis and create jobs. it is very important to ensure a proper balance between the real own resources and expenditure of the eu budget, and i believe that the ep is not prepared to give its consent to the regulation on the next mff until a political agreement on the reform of the own resources system has been reached. i support the proposals to increase budgetary flexibility by shifting expenditure from one category to another and from one mff financial year to another, thus ensuring the appropriate alignment of budgetary resources with changing circumstances and eu priorities. i think that the ep and the council should negotiate their political positions before formally submitting their proposals to the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because, in accordance with article 311 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union must provide itself with the means necessary to attain its objectives and implement its policies, and its entire budget must be financed from own resources. the european parliament has consistently called for the creation of new genuine own resources. therefore, in accordance with article 312 (2) tfeu, the council, acting unanimously after obtaining the consent of the european parliament, is to adopt a regulation establishing a multiannual financial framework (mff). the european union budget is dedicated to promoting economic growth and job creation, and the eu's role in the world. however, it must be stressed that the budget of the european union is an investment budget with a strong leverage effect. the eu budget, while limited in size, also serves as a catalyst for budgetary resources and provides the economies of scale and cross-border impact needed to achieve the commonly agreed eu policy objectives. moreover, the eu budget is a very powerful instrument for increasing strategic investments with european added value, and for stabilising the european economy, promoting growth and employment, while at the same time achieving economic and social cohesion throughout the union.
in writing. − the structure of the european union budget is currently very complex. i therefore fully support its being as simplified as possible. it is also essential to abandon the exceptions arising from historical reasons, which are essentially obsolete as a result of changes in both the size of the eu and the degree of integration. it is important that the measures introduced are universal, for example, the financial transaction tax will only achieve its objectives if it is applied throughout the european union. on the other hand, any reservations should be based on objective criteria, for example, the higher costs of customs administration in member states with external borders to the eu should be taken into account when determining the cost of own resources collection.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the 20th eu-japan summit, held in brussels on 28 may 2011, decided to open bilateral discussions with the aim of defining the scope and objectives of the negotiations for an eu-japan free trade agreement (fta). i support the european parliament's position that the council should not allow trade negotiations to begin until parliament has presented its position on the proposed negotiating mandate on the basis of a report from the committee responsible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the council and the commission have noted that in order to open negotiations on a free trade agreement (fta) between the european union and japan and thus promote closer economic integration between the two strategic trading partners, it is essential that japan is able to remove trade regulatory barriers. the leaders also agreed at the 20th eu-japan summit in brussels in may 2011 that the two sides would engage in discussions aimed at defining the scope and objectives of such negotiations. a negotiating scope group has been set up to assess the possible convergence of understanding on the scope and objectives of trade negotiations between the two economic partners, japan and the european union. the european parliament, therefore, expressing its intention to strengthen its economic integration in order to achieve the closest possible economic relations which could be mutually beneficial, proposes that the council not allow trade negotiations to begin until parliament, on the basis of a report from the committee responsible, has presented its position on the proposed negotiating mandate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the resolution to prevent the military junta in guinea-bissau from illegally taking power and potentially creating a humanitarian crisis. it is necessary to prevent the military junta from seizing power in guinea-bissau, the main transit country for cocaine from latin america, which could contribute to the intensification of drug transit to europe. the council should review the possible involvement of the eu in the resolution of the conflict by reinstating a mission under the european security and defence policy to provide support to the administration restored in the area of the rule of law, as soon as the legitimate authorities have regained the legitimate authority that was illegally taken from them. i believe that the eu should cooperate with regional and international organisations and provide assistance to civilians facing food and medical shortages.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as all concerned are urged to immediately cease their violent and unlawful actions and reminded of the military's obligation to respect the constitution of guinea-bissau. as is known, on 12 april 2012, members of the armed forces seized power in guinea-bissau by force and detained interim president raimunda pereira and prime minister carlos gomes júnior. these illegal acts took place on the day before the second round of the presidential election campaign in guinea-bissau. this military coup was condemned by the international community at large. it is therefore necessary to restore constitutional order and the rule of law in guinea-bissau and to complete the electoral process, including the holding of legitimate elections, so that the people of guinea-bissau can decide their own future in free and fair elections. fundamental freedoms, including freedom of speech and the press, freedom of assembly and association and freedom of movement, must be restored and guaranteed. all international partners should continue to monitor the situation in guinea-bissau closely and be prepared to review the adequacy of the measures taken, including the need to increase their number, while making every effort to avoid any adverse impact on the population.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the eu's efforts to mediate an end to the military action between sudan and south sudan. i agree that the eu must strengthen its role as a conflict-solver and mediator in the world, particularly in the african region, which is characterised by a high potential for territorial conflicts. in this way, the eu can increase the visibility and effectiveness of its activities in the eyes of its international partners, and the eu's involvement in the conflict in sudan and south sudan is a positive step, presenting it as a credible strategic leader in the region. it is necessary to create the conditions for two prosperous states respecting the principles of international and humanitarian law.
in writing. − by voting in favour, since sudan and south sudan are called upon to demonstrate their political and real determination to pursue a path of peace and to address security concerns of both parties through meaningful negotiations within the framework of a common political and security mechanism, starting with the establishment of a secure demilitarised border zone and the unconditional withdrawal of all their armed forces to their country, in accordance with previously agreed agreements. the territorial boundaries of the states shall not be altered by force, and all territorial disputes shall be settled only by political means, agreed upon by both parties and peaceful. the document strongly condemns all acts of violence against the civilian population in violation of international humanitarian law and human rights law. a new, coherent and comprehensive international strategy is needed to ensure long-term stability in the region, with the eu playing a role alongside other actors at global and regional levels, focusing not only on north-south issues and the situation in south kordofan and blue nile state, but also on the long-needed reform process in sudan and the strengthening of democratic reforms in south sudan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the aim of the trade agreement is to open markets for goods, services, government procurement and investment, and to promote economic integration and economic development between countries, thereby reducing poverty. i support its implementation and believe that it is important to respect the sustainable development goals, including the promotion of economic progress, respect for labour rights and environmental protection. i agree with the calls for these countries to ratify and effectively implement the ilo conventions, to develop a transparent and binding action plan on human rights, environmental protection and labour rights, and to establish an internal advisory group on human rights and democratic principles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement aims to open markets for goods, services, government procurement and investment. this would promote the economic integration and full economic development of the participating countries, with a view to reducing poverty and creating new employment opportunities. the eu is the second largest trading partner of colombia and peru. the introduction of a trade and sustainable development chapter in the trade agreement would provide assurances that the new eu trade and investment relationship framework will contribute to a comprehensive social and environmental protection and sustainable development in all countries by promoting and protecting high labour and environmental standards. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new legislation. it is essential to include a chapter on trade and sustainable development in the trade agreement and to establish country mechanisms and dialogue with civil society, involving citizens individually or in an organised collective way.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as, given the importance of the historical and cultural links, the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru aims to open markets, including for goods, services, government procurement and investment, and to promote the economic integration and full economic development of the participating countries with the aim of reducing poverty and creating new employment opportunities, improving working conditions and raising living standards by liberalising and expanding trade and investment between the territories of these countries, and to call for a commitment to implement the trade agreement in line with the objective of sustainable development, including the promotion of economic progress, respect for labour rights and protection of the environment, taking into account the international commitments of the parties. i support the commitment made by all parties concerned to promote respect for human rights and the principles of democracy and the rule of law and to include in article 1 of the trade agreement comprehensive and binding provisions on these fundamental principles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i support the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights to ensure the continuity, effectiveness and visibility of the eu's external action in the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy. the establishment of such a position should significantly improve communication between the different organisations responsible for the protection of human rights and present a coherent eu human rights policy. the appointment of this representative would contribute to the promotion of the fundamental democratic principles of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation as article 21 of the treaty on european union reaffirms the commitment of the european union to promote human rights and democracy in all its external action, while ensuring that its action in these areas is consistent with other policies. the treaty on european union provides the legal basis for the appointment of the eusr for human rights. the european union special representative for human rights should ensure greater visibility and coherence of the european union's human rights policy, which is a crucial component of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), and contribute to the global publicity of the eu's human rights work. the appointment of the first eusr in this area would enhance the visibility, effectiveness, coherence and accountability of the european union's human rights policy. the european parliament should play a role during the appointment procedure and oversee the mandate during the term of office. the policy objectives of the european union special representative for human rights should include enhancing the coherence, effectiveness and visibility of the european union's action in the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the eusr for human rights should ensure greater visibility and coherence of the eu's human rights policy, which is a crucial part of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), and contribute to raising awareness of the eu's human rights work worldwide. article 21 of the treaty on european union reaffirms the eu's commitment to promote human rights and democracy in all its external action, while ensuring the consistency and coherence of its action in these areas and in its external action and other policies. article 33 of the treaty on european union provides the legal basis for the appointment of the eusr for human rights, i.e. the council, on a proposal from the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, may appoint a eusr and give him/her powers in specific policy areas. the eusr shall exercise his mandate under the authority of the hr. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights.
in writing. - i voted yes. i am pleased that this initiative, which was born in the european parliament, is being implemented. human rights are one of the european union's fundamental values and their promotion in the neighbourhood and in the world is an integral part of the external relations. the appointment of a special representative to deal specifically with these issues is therefore a logical and consistent step. given the wide range and often long-standing nature of the problems in this area, it is important that the mandate of the eusr be sufficiently broad and extended to cover a longer period than usual, and that he/she work closely with the various relevant eu and international institutions, in particular the european parliament. the eu's human rights record in its relations with third countries should become more coordinated, coherent and consistent, thanks to the special representative.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the appointment of a special representative would be a positive and visible step which would contribute to new alliances and a dialogue on human rights. i'll remain realistic, though. a new high-level post does not automatically ensure a new, more credible human rights policy. we must ensure that the new special representative does not become another passive bureaucrat. the new human rights envoy must have a strong, independent and flexible mandate. the report states that the new post should reflect the current human rights policy. that's not necessarily good news. as the head of amnesty international said two weeks ago, the eu has become a "sleeping tiger" that is moving backwards instead of forwards. a 2012 human rights watch report said that "if the fine print is over, human rights in europe will be in trouble".
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. to date, there is no legally binding international treaty regulating the transfer of conventional arms. insufficient regulation and control and lack of transparency in the arms trade facilitate the irresponsible arms trade, as well as the unnecessary suffering of people, fostering armed conflict, instability, terrorist attacks and corruption, and damaging peace processes, social and economic development, the overthrow of democratically elected governments and the disregard for the rule of law, human rights and international humanitarian law. the united nations general assembly has proposed the adoption of an international and legally binding treaty on the arms trade, setting international standards for the import, export and transfer of conventional arms. this would allow states to ensure that they have national systems and internal controls of the highest standards in place to prevent conventional weapons from entering the illicit market from the legal market, where they could be used for terrorist acts, organised crime and other criminal activities. i support the european parliament's call for a historic step forward in the negotiations for a legally binding international arms trade treaty in july 2012 and for greater transparency and accountability by setting the highest international standards and criteria against which conventional arms transfers, imports and exports are judged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution as un general assembly resolution 64/48 calls on un member states to develop an effective and legally binding instrument for the transfer of conventional arms, in accordance with the highest common international standards, and to conclude a strong and effective treaty. the overall treaty on the transfer of conventional arms is not yet in place. there are no binding commitments in the area of arms transfers that explicitly protect international human rights and international humanitarian law. the un general assembly defines the att as a legally binding treaty that sets international standards for the import, export and transfer of conventional arms. they would be designed to oblige member states to set up national systems and internal controls operating to the highest standards. this would prevent conventional weapons from entering the illicit market from the legal market, where they could be used for terrorist acts, organised crime and other criminal activities. a common, coherent and consistent eu approach to this issue is essential for the ratification and effective implementation of the att at the global level, and the long-term success of the att depends on the adoption of a set of high, rigorous and clear standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the value of global exports has continued to increase despite the economic and financial crisis and because eu member states' exports consistently account for around 30% of total exports and are among the world's leading arms producers and exporters, and the eu has a responsibility and an interest in developing and contributing to a regulated, transparent and controlled arms trade on a global scale. while it is regrettable to acknowledge the contribution of the arms industry to job creation and economic growth, i believe that the poorly regulated, unregulated and non-transparent arms trade creates the conditions for irresponsible arms trade, as well as unnecessary human suffering, fosters armed conflict, instability, terrorist attacks and corruption, and undermines peace processes, social and economic development, encourages the overthrow of democratically elected governments and disregards the rule of law. it is necessary to take a historic step in the negotiations for a legally binding international arms trade treaty in july 2012 and to ensure greater transparency and accountability by setting the highest international standards and criteria against which conventional arms transfers, imports and exports are judged. i agree with the need to adopt the un comprehensive and universal arms trade treaty without delay and to facilitate its entry into force. transparency and accountability are the cornerstones of an effective att.
in writing. − the arms trade has a major impact on fuelling conflict, poverty and human rights abuses worldwide, but remains an opaque, weak and ineffectively regulated area of global trade. the arms trade is growing steadily, unabated even by the global economic recession. it is therefore necessary to reach agreement as soon as possible on a global arms trade treaty that is binding on all actors involved in the arms trade, and to establish an effective system for monitoring and supervising its implementation. at the same time, the fight against illicit arms trafficking and corruption must be strengthened. one of the key criteria to be enshrined in the treaty should be the level of democracy, stability and respect for human rights. the treaty should ensure that in painful situations such as the one currently in syria, the supply of weapons is stopped immediately, knowing that they are being used to kill civilians.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. on 28 november 2011, the democratic republic of the congo (drc) held its second general elections since the entry into force of the constitution in 2006, which are a key factor in the consolidation of democratization and the stabilisation process in the drc. in the context of the elections, 33 people were killed and at least 83 injured between 26 november and 25 december 2011, and at least 265 civilians were detained by members of the defence and security forces during this period. the european union electoral observation mission in the democratic republic of the congo concluded in its final report that the electoral process was characterised by a lack of transparency and integrity, due to the high number of irregularities and fraud detected. the country has also seen a rise in the repression of human rights defenders and journalists, who are unjustly detained and threatened. i support the european parliament's recommendations that the drc investigate these violations and engage in a dialogue with all parties, including the opposition and civil society, which will pave the way for genuine democracy and political reform in the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the creation of a democratic society requires above all a strong political will and a broad vision of ambition from political leaders, governments and opposition groups to help create political institutions that guarantee the human, social, economic and environmental rights of the population. political leaders, civil society organisations, religious institutions and women's associations should seek national consensus on adequate and appropriate institutions and established and agreed procedures for democratic practice. independent judicial and media systems are essential to shape and regulate the democratic process. it is necessary to strengthen the rule of law, establish democratic institutions, including a functioning parliament based on political pluralism, and strengthen the role of civil society. the congolese government must commit to a policy that is truly respectful of all human rights, including freedom of expression and opinion, freedom of demonstration, freedom of religion, etc. it is important to strengthen the rule of law, good governance and the fight against corruption, as well as the control of the security services. the future elections included in the revised electoral calendar for the 2012-2014 period must be transparent, credible, trustworthy and respect fundamental freedoms and human rights.
a lot has been said today about the single market, and i see it as clear that it is the foundation for rebuilding our european union economy, creating additional jobs. it has been rightly said that the current situation in the single market is very advantageous for some countries because of certain restrictions, and very detrimental for some countries. i really support and welcome the idea you have expressed that common rules should be established as soon as possible in the single market. secondly, the introduction of public procurement: i would suggest that we introduce public procurement as soon as possible in order to strengthen the conditions of competition in our internal single market and to make more efficient use of european union funds. the second point is that we must start thinking about protecting the single market from third countries, especially those which do not allow our individual companies to compete on equal terms in their countries and states, because we are reducing jobs and reducing people's incomes in our own countries.
unfortunately, the development of environmental policy is often such that new environmental requirements are usually adopted when a major disaster occurs. environmental legislation should aim not only at response but above all at prevention in order to prevent such accidents. in the future, we must go further and apply what is known as the precautionary principle. the directive under discussion today is designed to bring legal requirements into line with technological progress. unfortunately, we have only to regret that we are not ambitious enough and are still only facing reality. for example, offshore exploration and production of hydrocarbons and transport activities are not yet covered by the directive. it probably makes little difference whether the tanker is carrying oil or gas or, say, ammonia. in the event of an accident, the damage is, in any case, considerable. but i am very pleased that the provisions of the aarhus convention have been incorporated into this document. i believe that citizens have the right to information, to participate in decision-making and to have recourse to the courts. i believe that all this will ensure a high level of environmental protection. it is important that citizens are informed about the actions to be taken in the event of a possible accident, in order to be informed about the date of the inspection of the objects. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr aderi, who i believe has done a great job and wish him success in his presidency of hungary.
in writing. it is good that the subject of food for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes is being considered in such detail in the european parliament. the protection and safety of children and the sick, their welfare, must be the goal of our action. therefore, it is unacceptable that the possibility of pesticide residues in infant formulae or formulae for children under three years of age should be allowed under the community legislation currently in force. exposing children to toxic products, especially at such an early stage of development, can have irreversible harmful effects. pesticides for which maximum residue levels were approved in the 2006 directives and which do not meet the safety conditions should necessarily be withdrawn from the market and should not be used in the production of food covered by this regulation. it is also urgent to apply the principle of prohibition of pesticides in products of animal origin such as milk and to require strict controls on production, especially for foods for young children. there is one other important issue concerning food for special medical purposes which is not clarified in the proposed regulation, and that concerns the 32 million europeans suffering from diabetes. unfortunately, the regulation does not provide an appropriate legal framework for foods for diabetics. the main aim is to introduce a uniform eu-wide requirement for the labelling of foodstuffs, describing their composition in terms of safety for diabetics.
mr. chairman, please! there's been a lot of talk today about territorial disengagement, about territorial balance. we must also mention the unequal situation of producers and farmers in western europe and in the countries that joined the union only after 2004. farmers in these countries are less organised and may be the most affected by future changes. the commissioner said we have billions to support the dairy industry. that's good, that's good. but there are concerns about whether the money will be enough and, more importantly, whether it will be distributed fairly. i hope very much that this time farmers in the baltic countries, lithuania, latvia and estonia and others will not be harmed, as is the case with direct subsidies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because council regulation (ec) no 1300/2008 of 18 december 2008 establishing a multiannual plan for the stock of herring west of scotland and the fishing opportunities available for that stock was adopted before the entry into force of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). it contains a number of provisions (in particular articles 7 and 8) which confer on the council the power to take decisions, whereas the tfeu no longer allows this. this regulation may be the first act in the fisheries sector to be harmonised in the light of the tfeu. the decision adapted to this regulation may also have an impact on the decision-making procedure applicable to other multiannual plans, and it is therefore particularly important to find a legally justified decision to safeguard the rights of parliament under the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. −following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the commission proposed to align the regulation with the provisions of the new treaty and to replace the current council decisions by delegated acts on the harmonisation of fishing mortality rates and the corresponding spawning stock biomass levels in the light of scientific findings and by legislative acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure and relating to any other envisaged amendments to the plan. taking advantage of the harmonisation of this regulation, the commission also proposes some other amendments, in particular to move the definition of the geographical area containing the relevant stocks of atlantic herring from article 1 (dalykas) to article 2 (definitions). in addition, the current complex procedure (an annual assessment of the objectives achieved under the plan and a quarterly assessment of some specific aspects of the plan and its results and implementation) has been simplified to include a simpler quarterly assessment of the implementation and results of the plan. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to align the seveso directive with the regulation on classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals (cpc). the european union's cpc regulation implements the united nations global system for the classification and labelling of chemicals, but new cpc rules will come into force on 1 june 2015. the structure of the essential provisions of the directive, which has not changed since its adoption, should also be reviewed. amendments to the existing directive could improve its implementation and enforcement, improve the level of level playing field and reduce the administrative burden on industry.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as the amendments to the current directive should improve its implementation and enforcement, thereby increasing the level of level playing field and, where possible, reducing the administrative burden on industry. major industrial accidents such as those in seveso (italy, 1976), bhopal (india, 1984), schweizerhalle (switzerland, 1986), enschede (netherlands, 2000), toulouse (france, 2001) and bansfield (uk, 2005) have claimed many lives, destroyed public and private property, damaged the environment and caused billions of euros in damage. to reduce the likelihood and consequences of such accidents, the eu first adopted directive 82/501/eec (seveso i directive) and then the current directive 96/82/ec (seveso ii directive), as amended by directive 2003/ec, covering some 10 000 sites containing dangerous substances (or mixtures thereof) in sufficient quantities to cause major accident hazards. it provides for an obligation for operators and member states' authorities to prevent and mitigate accidents.
in writing. − i voted in favor of this report, because i think that the eu needs to align its legal framework with the technical progress and to manage risks together with member states and other stakeholders. open information for public, risk analysis, inspections of potentially dangerous sites are necessary steps to ensure security of people and prevent disasters damaging the nature. the challenge for the regulation is unsatisfactory implementation by the member states. it puts in danger european citizens and our environment, information and awareness would not help them in case of accident caused by malfunctioning implementation. the “major accident prevention system” should be complemented with “implementation management system”.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is currently difficult for consumers and for the control authorities to distinguish between food for normal consumption and food for special populations. the reasons for this ambiguity are diverse: different interpretations and implementation of the framework directive in the member states, administrative constraints, changes in composition and labelling, innovation, competitiveness, price, consumer protection and information. legislation on food intended for particular groups of the population should therefore be recast. if we want the internal market to function properly, we cannot ignore the health of the most vulnerable members of society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because of the need to revise the legislation on food for particular nutritional uses in depth and to abolish the concept of dietary food, which is usually of little relevance in terms of nutritional value, in order to provide greater legal certainty for the industry and vulnerable groups of the population covered by this regulation. the definition of food intended for infants, children under 3 years of age and persons with certain health conditions for whom special nutritional requirements are essential and the rules on the composition of such food must be subject to democratic control by the european parliament on a permanent basis. these simplified but more protective legislation should apply equally to both imported and exported foodstuffs and should facilitate the application of the precautionary principle. if we want the internal market to function properly, we cannot ignore the health of the most vulnerable members of society.
in writing. − i support the communication updating another food safety legislation. at the same time, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the fact that there are many such laws in the field of food safety, and their updating is the constant work of the environment committee. what they all have in common is that we want to protect the consumer by providing him with as much information as possible about the products he consumes. however, the fact that the provisions are scattered across the different pieces of legislation creates some confusion. i would therefore urge the commission to consider the possibility of codifying all food safety legislation as soon as possible and to present a draft single food safety code covering all existing eu legislation governing the safety of various food products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because public participation is an essential element of democratic governance. a well-designed and published public consultation is one of the key tools for making the european union's transparency policy concrete. their potential to fill the gaps in information for citizens and union communication has not yet been fully exploited. the right of every citizen of the european union to have recourse to the institutions of the european union in any of the official languages of the union must be fully respected and implemented. public consultations must be conducted in all the official languages of the european union under equal conditions and without discrimination as regards language. in addition, all consultations should be understandable to citizens and should be sufficiently long to ensure a high level of participation.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the commission proposed to declare 2013 the european year of citizens in order to raise awareness of the benefits and rights of eu citizenship and to encourage more active participation in union policy-making. public participation is an essential element of democratic governance, since well-designed and publicised public consultations are one of the key tools for making eu transparency policy concrete and their potential to fill the communication and information gaps between citizens and the union has not yet been fully exploited. the commission should actively seek to reach out to ordinary citizens by making full use of existing means of communication, so that consultations are carried out on a wide scale and organised in conjunction with ngos and other stakeholders.
in writing. − the launch of the citizens' initiative platform a few months ago and its popularity show that it is a truly indispensable instrument for the expression of direct democracy in the european union. unfortunately, the technical obstacles that sometimes hinder this instrument have yet to be overcome. the public consultation also aims to achieve the same result consulting as many interest groups as possible. i agree that this consultation should be accessible to as many europeans as possible. only then will we be able to ensure that the legislation we adopt reflects not only the will of business structures but also the will of our electorate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because respect for human rights, freedom of identity, culture and religion and freedom of association are fundamental principles of the eu and its foreign policy. the authorities of the people's republic of china used disproportionate force in the suppression of protests in tibet in 2008 and have since imposed restrictive security measures restricting freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of association and freedom of belief. the tibetan identity, language, culture and religion, the heritage of a historically rich civilization, are under real threat. the authorities of the people's republic of china should grant real autonomy to the historical territory of tibet. however, since january 2010, the chinese government has shown no willingness to continue dialogue with the envoys of his holiness the dalai lama. the chinese authorities must engage in a meaningful discussion with the central tibetan administration on the future of tibet, allow an independent international inquiry into the 2008 protests and their aftermath, and release political prisoners. the document condemns the continuing crackdown by the chinese authorities on tibetan monasteries and calls on the chinese government to ensure freedom of religion for the tibetan people and all citizens. it is necessary to respect the tibetan language, culture, religion and other fundamental freedoms and not to pursue policies of settlement of tibetans in the historical territories of tibet, which are beneficial and harmful to the han, nor to force tibetan nomads to abandon their traditional way of life.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the situation in tibet is deteriorating and the current eu-china human rights dialogue on this issue is not productive, despite the fact that both the ep and the high representative have repeatedly expressed concern about the restrictions on freedom of religion and assembly, forced displacement, arbitrary detention, the increasing number of self-immolations and other human rights violations by the chinese authorities. however, a formal exchange of views is not enough and i fully agree that one of the key tasks of the future eusr for human rights must be to ensure that the eu's attention to the situation in tibet is constant and that the relevant institutions are kept informed of the situation. i also support the appointment of an eu coordinator for tibet. china is not only one of the eu's strategic partners but also a permanent member of the un security council, with a corresponding commitment to the values of the universal declaration of human rights, both globally and in domestic politics. the communist chinese authorities, aspiring to become a modern power, must learn to deal with their inner fears and recognize tibetans as equal chinese citizens, whose autonomy rights are guaranteed by the constitution of the people's republic of china. the tibetan culture and religion, which has been developed over thousands of years, must be preserved as a unique cultural heritage of humanity and its uninterrupted continuity must be ensured.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the single market is the main driver of economic growth and employment in the european union. it has brought enormous benefits to citizens and opened up new opportunities for european businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones. nevertheless, the opportunities offered by the single market have not yet been fully exploited by europeans in many areas and new incentives are needed, in particular to ensure effective labour mobility in europe, while ensuring adequate social cohesion and facilitating cross-border sales and purchases. the single market is more than ever needed as a means of reviving the european economy, providing a concrete response to the current long-term crisis and ensuring the long-term viability of the european project. strengthening the single market and ensuring sound economic governance should be among the key objectives of the european union's growth agenda. member states and the european union institutions should therefore focus on adopting and swiftly implementing key growth legislation, giving priority to tackling youth unemployment and reducing red tape.
in writing. − i voted for this document because the european single market has brought enormous benefits to citizens and has opened up new opportunities for european businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. this market is a key driver of economic growth and employment in the eu. ensure effective labour mobility in europe while ensuring adequate social cohesion and facilitate cross-border sales and purchases. the single market does not need to be detached from the implementation of health, social and consumer protection, labour law, environmental protection, sustainable development and external policy and the eu 2020 strategy. the current economic downturn in the member states has put at risk certain of the most visible gains of the european integration process, which means that it is necessary to achieve the initial objectives set out in the services directive without damaging traditional sectors of the economy. the single market is more than ever needed as a means of reviving the european economy, providing a concrete response to the current long-term crisis and ensuring the viability of the european project. member states and the eu institutions should agree on a binding timetable and specific measures needed to implement the single market legislation and to remove any remaining unjustified obstacles to the free movement of goods, services and workers. member states and eu institutions should focus on adopting and swiftly implementing key growth legislation, prioritising the issue of youth unemployment and cutting red tape.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because the main objective of the future of european companies is to enable european companies to compete more effectively and to be more successful in a competitive global environment, while ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are properly protected. however, the financial crisis has shown the need for a clearer corporate governance framework that focuses more on stakeholder engagement. there is an untapped potential at european level in relation to the legal form of companies that should be further exploited, developed and promoted. the cross-border mobility of companies should also be facilitated. future initiatives should be compatible with national corporate governance systems and national legislation on co-employment. any legislative proposal submitted should be based on an impact assessment taking into account the interests of all stakeholders, including investors, owners, creditors and employees, and fully respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the eu regulatory framework for company law and corporate governance needs to be adapted to reflect the growing trend of european companies to operate across borders in the eu and the ongoing integration of european markets. the overall objective is to enable european companies to compete more effectively and to succeed in a highly competitive global environment, while ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected. however, any future initiatives should be consistent with national corporate governance systems and national legislation on employee participation, with a view to achieving greater flexibility and freedom of choice in the form of companies, the allocation of internal power and the strategies of sustainable companies. there is an untapped potential at european level in relation to the legal form of companies that should be further exploited, developed and promoted. the financial crisis has shown the need for a clearer corporate governance framework that focuses more on stakeholder engagement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the continuing structural weaknesses and the economic crisis have led to an increase in the unemployment rate from 9.5% to 10.2% in 2010 and 2012 respectively, representing some 6 million job losses since 2008. the challenges related to employment, social inclusion and the fight against poverty are increasing, with increasing disparities between member states and regions. unemployment is particularly high among young people, partly because of the mismatch between the supply of skills and demand, but often also because of the disregard for their level of education. high employment is therefore important for fiscal consolidation and economic recovery, both in supporting domestic consumption and in encouraging people to contribute to the financing of the welfare state. the commitments set out in member states' national reform programmes are often not sufficient on their own to achieve many of the eu-level objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the eu annual growth survey 2012 calls for decisive action to create jobs and revive the economy. member states must adopt or maintain policies conducive to economic growth, including priority funding for education, lifelong learning and research and innovation, despite the austerity measures required by the economic crisis and the need to reduce public debt, especially in the euro area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution because female genital mutilation, whether short-term or long-term, causes very serious and irreparable damage to the mental and physical health of the women and girls who suffer it and violates their rights, and is therefore considered a cruel act of violence against their person and integrity, and in some cases can even result in death. any mutilation of the female genital organs is a harmful traditional practice that cannot be considered part of a religion, but is an act of violence against women and girls, which violates their fundamental rights, in particular the right to personal security and integrity and physical and mental health. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union. under no circumstances can such violence be justified by respect for different cultural traditions or initiation ceremonies. it is an expression of unequal power relations and a form of violence against women, alongside other serious forms of gender-based violence. it is therefore necessary to integrate the fight against female genital mutilation into a common and coherent approach to combating gender-based violence and violence against women.
in writing. − i support this resolution and the inclusion of the issue on the un assembly's agenda. fgm affects women's reproductive health and is a cause of concern for the high number of girls and women affected by this type of violence in the eu and in third countries. it is not just physical abuse of underage girls but also an expression of power over them, causing physical and spiritual suffering. i support the immediate end to such practices and the provision of opportunities for girls and women to report violence against them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the french authorities' examination of the physical integrity of a sample of silicone breast implants from the french company pip revealed defects in the pip casing that are not found in other commercially available implants, posing a serious risk to women's health. clinical and epidemiological data on the potential risks associated with pip breast implants are still lacking. 10 to 15% of third-generation implants are ruptured within ten years of insertion. the need to ensure rapid access to medical devices for patients should never override the need to ensure patient safety. the application of the existing legislation therefore requires closer cooperation, in particular in the areas of market surveillance and inspections, and a strengthening of controls in order to provide greater guarantees of safety for patients.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the poor quality of breast implants produced by pip. although the company has been out of business since 2010, there are still thousands of patients in europe and beyond who are wearing substandard silicone-filled breast implants. i have identified the following problematic aspects: the absence of an implant registry, the failure of a control mechanism, the lack of information and market monitoring. i agree with the idea of a passport for every implant holder and a common independent register of implants in the eu member states. this would not only help to trace the implant holder of a particular manufacturer, but would also speed up the exchange of information between member states, especially in the case of low-quality implants. this fraud case, which affected the health of many patients, revealed a dysfunctional legislative process at national and eu level. it is necessary to emphasise the need for stronger sanctions and controls at european level, rather than leaving it to the member states alone. patients should be provided with not only guarantees of the safety of the implant, but also with adequate information on the quality, risk factors, and the possibility of replacing the implant. this requires effective and goodwill cooperation between all the chains: manufacturers, healthcare providers and patients. as regards market control and monitoring of manufacturers, i call for a coordinated operation of inspectors in the member states, for the inspection of randomly selected implants, for the audit of manufacturers. the checks must be carried out before the introduction on the market or the granting of marketing authorisations to undertakings, thus creating a preventive system to prevent the recurrence of the french company's case of industrial silicone for breast implants spilling into patient tissues.
almost three years have passed since 58 people were brutally murdered for political reasons in the province of magindanao in the philippines. the ampatuano clan responsible for this crime still holds many important posts in the provincial administration, maintaining a private army of hundreds of armed guards, whose members torture victims, bury them alive, and dispose of their bodies. the magindanao tragedy and its failed investigation send a serious signal to the philippine government that the country, losing what remains of democracy, may be plunging into a sea of chaos. we strongly urge the leadership of the country to ban and disarm the vast personal armies immediately, and to arrest immediately all suspects in the magindanao massacre. it is also necessary to ensure the safety of witnesses to criminal proceedings.
if it is indeed believed that the only way for europe to survive as an economic and financial union is through a stronger centralisation of power and decision-making, then the communities, the peoples, should be informed immediately so that they can decide for themselves whether to transfer part of their sovereignty. i doubt that talking about a common consolidated corporate tax base and a revision of the savings income tax directive is the way to overcome the crisis. the european crisis management doctrine should be based on three pillars. first, the promotion of production and its adequate consumption. secondly, saving not at the expense of public revenues but at the expense of bureaucratic state apparatuses and the state banking sector. well, the third is the efficient use of european union funds, including the necessary social reforms.
in fact, the decisions of last friday were very important, there were certain decisions on banking sector supervision, bank consolidation, which we were already talking about a few years ago. and indeed, there was already a lot of knowledge at that time that the banking sector's activities were completely out of line with any state policy in both the economic and financial realms, so these decisions are very important. secondly, europe is facing not only financial problems, but also a problem of solidarity. today the european union is understood only as a source of extra money and greater benefits for its state, and we see this in certain specific actions of the state, if we talk about the legalization of the fiscal treaty, if we talk about the financial transaction tax and many other areas, so i hope that in the future the european union will become much more solidary.
i voted in favour of this report and in this context i would like to congratulate myself on the success of the baltic sea strategy, which was conceived in this very european parliament a few years ago and which, despite three setbacks, has managed to live up to expectations. and today, this strategy is one of those examples of how cooperation can be successful at the macro-regional level. the success of such strategies is based primarily on the initiative of the actors themselves, on the need for closer cooperation among the countries of the european union concerned. the overall objective is to increase growth and competitiveness in the european union and to deepen the internal market of the european union. as regards the baltic sea strategy, at this stage, with the priority areas clearly defined, needs identified and specific projects, the commission should draw up a list of recommended european union programmes and, as appropriate, provide in the new multiannual programme for which programmes there will be eligibility. i believe that the coordinator of the european union's macro-regional strategies would benefit from a consolidating, coordinating and visibility factor. and i would like to emphasise that these macro-regional strategies are not a demand for more money, but a demand for better coordination between them.
there is no doubt that water is an essential and important element in the lives of each of us, and i voted today in favour of the water legislation, the assessment, in other words this report. this document is very broad and detailed, covering not only water quality but also resources and their proper management. it is important that all citizens in the european union have access to water, that is, to the appropriate infrastructure. at present, in some member states, we are faced with a situation where there is insufficient connection, and i am referring to both the water mains and the main sewerage systems. another important aspect is the efficient and sustainable use of water. the situation in the european union is quite different. there is an excess of water in one place, and a shortage in another. but we have to think not only about saving water, but also about saving resources, financial resources, and it's very important to talk about innovation and investment in innovation, and in a technological sense we could draw on the experience of advanced countries in these areas of innovation, like israel in particular.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the proposal amends directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) in order to adapt it to the new insurance supervisory regime and to take account of the establishment of a european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the deadline for transposition of the directive is also amended by postponing it to 30 june 2013 and setting a later date of application. accordingly, a new date for the repeal of the existing insurance and reinsurance directives, collectively referred to as 'cost i', is set, extending it until 1 january 2014. this is done to ensure the legal continuity of the current 'cost i' provisions until the 'cost ii' directive is applied. i support this proposal because it is necessary to ensure a smooth transition to the new regime and to avoid legal uncertainty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the proposal seeks to amend directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance 'capacity ii' in order to postpone the date of transposition and application of the directive to 30 june 2013 instead of 31 october 2012 and the date of application to 1 january 2014. as the current negotiations on the omnibus ii regulation related to the common commercial policy, which should affect the new oversight structure of capacity ii, are not yet concluded, the implementation of the measures in capacity ii cannot be presented. it is therefore necessary to extend the transposition deadline for 'level ii' in order to ensure the legal continuity of the 'level i' directive until the full application of 'level ii'. this proposal does not provide for any amendment of the content of the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because directive 2009/138/ec (level ii) establishes a modern, risk-based european framework for the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. these new rules are essential to ensure a safe and secure insurance sector. the deadline for transposition was 31 october 2012. however, in order to take account of the new insurance supervision system, in particular the establishment of a european insurance and occupational pensions authority, it is essential to ensure a smooth transition to the new regime. in order to make the 'learning ii' procedure fully effective, the commission has yet to adopt a number of delegated and implementing acts setting out relevant information on a wide range of technical issues. it is therefore proposed to extend the deadline for transposition of the directive until 30 june 2013.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the new rules laid down in the capability ii directive will ensure that the insurance sector functions safely and reliably. in view of the negative impact of the financial crisis and the importance of this directive, i consider it appropriate to extend the deadline for transposition of the directive until 30 june 2013. all member states must make every effort to ensure a smooth transition to the new regime, avoiding market distortions. it is also essential that the commission contribute effectively to this implementation by adopting delegated and implementing acts that facilitate the implementation of a gradual transition process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the aim of the proposal is to change the status of the french island of saint barthélemy from an outermost region to an overseas country and territory associated with the eu. since this commission proposal is in line with the needs and specificities of the island, does not infringe the eu's interests and will enable saint barthélemy to contribute to the promotion of the eu model and the dissemination of european values, i support it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in accordance with article 355 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), by letter of 30 june 2010, the french republic asked the european council, after consulting the commission, to adopt unanimously a decision on the island of saint barthélemy, with a view to changing its status from outermost region to an overseas country and territory associated to the european union. the tfeu provides for the possibility for the european council to adopt a decision on the initiative of the member state concerned to make saint barthélemy the 26th country or territory to be associated with the european union. moreover, by granting san bartolomé the status of an overseas country and territory, the european union would establish a new, mutual and sustainable partnership with san bartolomé, which would be in keeping with the characteristics of the territory, but without casting doubt on its european identity. the euro would remain the currency of saint barthélemy and its citizens would remain citizens of the european union. the links between san bartolomé and the european union would thus be maintained. this change of status would allow saint barthélemy to strengthen its links with regional actors, in particular the overseas countries and territories, the african, caribbean and pacific states and the outermost regions of the caribbean, thus contributing to the promotion of the european model and the dissemination of european values.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as in 2010 the french republic asked the european council to adopt a decision on saint barthélemy, to change its status from that of an outermost region to that of an overseas country and territory associated to the european union. the european council therefore adopted decision 2010/718/eu amending the status of the french community of saint-barthélemy with effect from 1 january 2012. in this case, saint barthélemy would be included in the list of overseas countries and territories and would become the 26th associated country or territory of the european union. the granting of the status of an overseas country and territory to saint-barthélemy would lead the european union to establish a new mutual and sustainable partnership with saint-barthélemy, which would be in keeping with the characteristics of the territory, but without casting doubt on its european identity. saint barthélemy's currency remains the euro and its citizens remain citizens of the european union. relations with the european union are thus maintained. this change of status will enable saint barthélemy to strengthen its links with regional actors, in particular the overseas countries and territories, the african, caribbean and pacific states and the outermost regions of the caribbean, and thus contribute to the dissemination of european values.
in writing. − i support the proposal to grant the status of an overseas country and territory to saint barthélemy. this would be the basis for a new mutual and strong partnership and close economic relations between the island and the eu. furthermore, saint-barthélemy will provide excellent conditions for further developing and strengthening links with regional actors and for economic and social development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the development of new eu macro-regional strategies, opening up new possibilities for territorial cooperation projects. regional policy development is essential to address economic and environmental challenges and to achieve the europe 2020 objectives through strategic means. i support the commission's proposal to develop a mediterranean strategy using the macro-regional approach and that the baltic sea strategy adopted in 2009 is a good example of this. the mediterranean region is europe's most important neighbourhood, with a population of 500 million, of which one third is in the eu, but cooperation between the eu and the region remains relatively low. i support the proposal to develop a macro-regional strategy for the region, because its dynamic development would also stimulate the european economy as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because macro-regional strategies offer new opportunities for implementing territorial cooperation projects supported by cohesion policy. some progress has been made in the preparation of several macro-regional projects. the macro-regional strategy for the baltic sea region was adopted in 2009 and the commission highlighted the benefits of this new cooperation in its review of the strategy. the union of mediterranean states is currently developing and has the potential to become a driving force in the region. the mediterranean region has played a key geopolitical role in european history. however, the mediterranean region is not well organised within the european union. there is very little cooperation and communication. the living standards of the mediterranean coastal population living outside the european union are deteriorating dramatically in all aspects: economic, social, ecological and political. these societies must develop, and this development is good for europe. europe would be safer, immigration flows would be better controlled and it would be more directly involved in the growth zone, which would have a positive impact on its own economic performance. the macro-regional strategies approach could thus be used to decide on a joint project in this area of major importance for the future of the union, in order to overcome the current crisis and meet the expectations of all mediterranean neighbours, in particular the population of the southern coastal countries.
in writing. − i voted for this document because macro-regional strategies offer new opportunities for implementing territorial cooperation projects supported by cohesion policy. these strategies can complement the main community strategies, such as the trans-european transport networks or the integrated maritime policy. their implementation will allow for a better alignment between the regional programmes and the objectives of the european parliament as set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the mediterranean region is too poorly organised in the european union. there is very little cooperation and communication. the mediterranean countries and regions of europe need to cooperate more closely and to provide opportunities for cooperation for all partners in this region, which is crucial for the future of europe. the macro-regional strategy is the priority instrument for achieving this objective.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that the eu's macro-regional strategies are a great example of how to address the problems of the entire region more effectively, especially those related to coherent and sustainable development, the implementation of cohesion and territorial cooperation projects under the eu's neighbourhood policy, and the use of eu funds. only by coordinating national positions can the development potential of the region be fully exploited. it is good that the baltic sea strategy has started this process, where projects not only help to reduce physical distances between people, but also promote creativity, mobility of ideas, shared regional identity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the single european railway area. this proposal for a directive establishing a single european rail area is a merger of three directives in force and contains provisions regarding the adequate financing of and charging for rail infrastructures, the conditions of competition on the railway market, and the organisational reforms needed to ensure appropriate supervision of the market. i support an adequate, transparent and sustainable funding of the infrastructure, better predictability of the infrastructure development and access conditions, as well as the improvement of the competitiveness of rail operators vis-à-vis other transport modes. it is important that a strong and independent national regulatory body would be established which would exchange information within a network with other national regulatory bodies. finally, for the successful liberalisation of the railway market, it is necessary to introduce transparent rules for the calculation of track access charges and promote technical harmonisation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the development of long-term strategies and multiannual contracts between the state and infrastructure managers is necessary to stimulate investment in the railway sector and thus to enable market participants to better predict the development of infrastructure. new taxation rules, differentiated charges for train noise characteristics and for trains equipped with etcs are necessary to encourage investment in greener technologies. i agree that the competences of national regulatory authorities should be extended, their powers in areas such as impact assessment, audits and own-initiative investigations should be strengthened and their independence from other public authorities should be ensured. it is also important to strengthen competition in the railway market by creating more transparent conditions for entry and by providing better access opportunities. i support the proposals set out to facilitate access to services such as maintenance infrastructure, terminals, passenger information and ticketing equipment, etc., and to establish clear rules on conflict of interest and discriminatory practices.
in writing. − the official position is that the amendments to the directive proposed by the european commission are designed to develop the railway system and create a common transport market. however, some of the proposed provisions raise concerns that they may have very negative consequences or be disastrous for the lithuanian railway system. the situation in lithuania, as in the other baltic states, is specific in the railway sector, with railway tracks not meeting european standards, which remain largely integrated into the cis market. the draft under consideration presents more favourable, compromise options for lithuania. the requirement to separate rail infrastructure from passenger and freight transport activities was not the most dissatisfying. however, other requirements concerning the independence of freight terminals, stations, refuelling, distribution lines, etc. remained, which were of no less concern to lithuanian railways. this may cause major problems in the future, as it will be virtually impossible to ensure the independence of these divisions within a single company and the ec may then start to require their separation. the proposal to allow the application of a higher infrastructure charge to third country freight transport is also highly questionable. it is not clear how this provision would be implemented in practice, but it is certain that the commission would require a reduction in taxes and the difference to be covered by the state budget. the european parliament will return to the railway directive in the autumn of this year. i hope that we will be able to find convincing arguments that will allow the directive to be formulated in a way that is favourable to lithuania and ensures the continued functioning of its railway system.
in writing. − the creation of a single railway area is an important step towards further eu integration, which will not only improve rail transport in general in the future, but is also likely to lead to lower freight and passenger charges. unfortunately, it is regrettable that the second reading did not take account of the member states which, in all areas of infrastructure - electricity, gas transmission, railway - are still part of the former soviet union. the adopted document does not take into account the important provisions for lithuania, latvia, estonia and finland, which use the broad gauge railway, that they need additional resources to become full members of the single railway area.
in writing. − the implementation of this directive will cause a number of serious problems not only for lithuania but also for the other baltic states. i think that the implementation of the provisions on infrastructure separation and infrastructure charge will cause a particular amount of confusion. in particular, this directive does not lay down specific requirements for the separation of infrastructure. in order to ensure increased competition, continuous investment and economic efficiency of the services provided, i believe that the management of infrastructure and the provision of transport services should be carried out by different departments or entities within the same undertaking. it should be noted that the provision in the directive on the possibility of applying a higher charge to the carriage of goods from third countries is questionable and difficult to implement in practice. in order to establish a common method of calculating the amount of the levies, the commission must as soon as possible draw up a comparative analysis of the methods of determining the amount of the levies applied by the member states.
in writing. − this communication is another important step towards a common eu rail system. the document sets out the responsibilities and financial obligations of the transport system operators of the eu and its member states. i voted in favour of this report because it facilitates the creation of greater competition in this sector, encourages more investment in environmental rail transport programmes and creates a more transparent financial accounting regime for the sector. there is a need for more detailed discussion on the need to separate infrastructure managers from operators. this would also allow third-country railway companies to gain a foothold on the eu rail market, whose interests would not necessarily coincide with the objectives of eu transport policy. in some eu countries, this would pose a security threat. in addition, the consideration of the single european railway area should continue to effectively seek to reduce the specificities of the railway system in certain eu countries. for example, the railway carriage of the baltic states is not in line with the standard used in many eu countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on recording equipment in road transport. i believe that professional drivers will enjoy safer working conditions with the introduction of more efficient recording equipment in road transport as endorsed by the european parliament today. we have given our backing to a review of the tachograph regulation, which dates back to 1985. the revision aims to combat fraud, enforce better working conditions for professional drivers and save european transport companies up to €515 million per year by reducing administrative burdens. the european commission has found that up to 45,000 vehicles were in breach of eu tachograph rules at least once. breaches include not adhering to minimum rest periods or maximum driving times, resulting in fatigued drivers and increased road safety risks. with this latest proposal, the parliament is seeking to support the transport industry by easing the burden on companies and clarifying tachograph laws. however, road safety is of paramount importance, and transport companies operating in europe and their drivers must obey the safety rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the use of the latest technologies, in particular tachographs, is essential to improve road safety and drivers' working conditions, and to ensure fair competition between transport companies. the data recorded by the tachograph on driving, working and resting time will help transport companies to comply with social rules, i.e. minimum breaks, rest periods and maximum driving time. it is particularly important that eu member states comply with the tachograph regulation and the social rules applicable to transport undertakings, as companies that do not comply with the legislation will gain a significant competitive advantage by reducing prices, as the costs of staff represent up to 50% of the total operating costs of a transport undertaking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union's main objective in the field of transport is to improve road safety, improve the working conditions of drivers and ensure fair competition between transport companies. however, the provisions of the social legislation adopted by the european union concerning road transport, which in practice is based on the control of data recorded by the tachograph (on driving, working and resting time), are not sufficiently implemented. two main problems are identified: the social rules are still often violated and the tachograph system is not sufficiently effective. according to the data provided by the commission, about 9% of the vehicles checked are in breach of social rules. approximately one quarter of these vehicles were found to be particularly non-compliant with the provisions of the tachograph regulation. moreover, the tachograph system was designed and operated primarily as a tool for maintaining order, rather than as a labour-saving tool. therefore, in order to achieve better application of social rules and to reduce administrative burden by making full use of new technologies and introducing certain new regulatory measures, it is necessary to review existing social legislation. however, none of the objectives of the proposal will be achieved if the member states do not commit themselves to improving the implementation of this regulation.
in writing. - i abstained in voting in favour of this document because i think there should not be an additional financial burden for the verification of carriers etc. (as was tried with gps, i.e. carriers will have to pay). i also believe that the tachograph system should not only monitor the driver but also help him - to warn him of the end of working hours, of the necessary rest, and so on. i also think that the information from the tachograph should go to the company and not to other third-party sources.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which aims to make the control system in the field of road transport more efficient and reliable and thus to improve road safety. the tachograph is a fundamental tool in the fight against road safety, as it ensures that the rules on driving time and rest periods for road drivers are respected, and it also ensures fair competition between operators. i can only support this proposal which will improve the safety of the system and the productivity of control, in particular by introducing the latest technological innovations and by addressing the training of police services.
in writing. − given the complexity of the situation of carriers, no additional financial burden should be imposed on them. the hasty and incorrect implementation of the provisions of this regulation may have very serious negative consequences for the sector. in view of this, i consider that the mandatory installation of smart tachographs should be limited to vehicles registered for the first time after the date of entry into force of this regulation. the new tachograph system should not only control the driver but also help them to improve their working conditions by providing the necessary and detailed information. it is also essential to ensure that the information provided by the tachographs is only transmitted to the undertaking and not to unrelated third parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on customs enforcement of intellectual property rights. intellectual property rights (ipr) are fundamental to innovation, which is a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. given the increase of ipr infringements and international trade in infringing goods, large parts of economic growth and jobs in the eu depend on the effective enforcement of ipr. it is estimated that piracy and counterfeiting cost european businesses eur 250 billion each year. the customs authorities are in a comparatively good position to enforce iprs effectively at the eu's external borders, before the goods enter the internal market. once the goods spread across different member states, it becomes much more difficult and costly to trace them and to initiate proceedings. i support the position of the rapporteur that the proposed regulation should only lay down the procedures enabling the customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods which are suspected of infringing ipr.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. intellectual property is one of the factors of eu competitiveness and therefore its protection is of particular importance. infringements of intellectual property rights and trade in counterfeit goods have a negative impact on the health and safety of eu industry and consumers. at eu borders, customs is the first institution to fight against counterfeiting and the illegal entry of goods into the eu, and i therefore support the proposal to review the current regulation on the implementation of border controls in order to protect the iuu and to simplify customs procedures. i agree that procedures should be established for customs authorities to prevent goods infringing the int. the principle that counterfeit goods infringe the trips should also be recognised when they are intended for personal use. i believe that the simplified investigation procedure should apply not only to counterfeit and pirated goods but also to all infringements of the int. i agree that right holders should be given access to information on goods being destroyed and that they should be given the right to claim compensation from the recipients of the goods.
in writing. − i abstained in voting in favour of this document because such practices can cause serious economic damage to rights holders. however, this regulation should help to ensure that customs authorities act effectively and swiftly to reduce the risks of disturbance to legitimate trade. economic operators who are regularly involved in customs formalities have a good knowledge of customs procedures. therefore, burdensome administrative procedures that would prevent the competent customs authorities from acting effectively and quickly should not be introduced. the final consumer, who is not familiar with customs formalities, should be better protected.
in writing. − customs have a special role to play in the fight against the illicit entry of goods and counterfeit products into the common market in order to ensure the proper protection of intellectual property rights. in this context, every effort should be made to strengthen customs procedures for the enforcement of intellectual property rights, to ensure the proper implementation of the protection of traders' interests and to prevent abuse and piracy. it is essential that measures to combat infringements of intellectual property rights at the eu's external borders are combined with targeted action in the country of origin. similar provisions on intellectual property rights should be included in trade agreements. i believe that, in order to ensure adequate protection of intellectual property rights, this regulation should also apply to goods in transit through the customs territory of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of eu water legislation. europe as a whole extracts only around 13 per cent of its total available water, but the geographic distribution of resources is very uneven and many european countries and regions are subject to heavy water stress. there can be no ‘one size fits all’ solution: the regional and local dimension should be strengthened, local stakeholders and communities should be involved in a participatory process at all stages of policy design and implementation, and the commission should foster capacity building and design clear guidelines for implementation. i support the position of the rapporteur that regional water consumption data must be considered when setting new rules. the biggest water consumers by far are the energy production and agriculture sectors. here we can find a huge potential to increase the efficiency of the water consumption. it is important to stress that all existing rules need to be fully implemented in the eu member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in order to protect, restore and ensure the long-term and sustainable use of clean water and to achieve good ecological and chemical status by 2015, it is necessary to improve the implementation of the water framework directive in the member states. since in many areas of europe water abstraction exceeds sustainable levels, and this poses a threat to the safety of public water supplies and to fauna and flora, the proposed measures are necessary. i agree with the importance of collecting reliable data on water availability, strengthening the eu water information system (wise) and promoting innovation and research in the field of water protection and availability. i support the proposal to regulate water reuse and recycling in eu legislation, taking account of technological innovation, and to eliminate the inconsistencies between the water framework directive, the nitrates directive, the reach regulation and natura 2000, and to strengthen international commitments for sustainable development.
in writing. − i voted for this report because water is undoubtedly one of the most important public goods. proper water management is essential to ensure that all ecosystems receive sufficient water of good quality and can function properly to provide services essential to society and the economy. current trends in water use are often fragile due to inefficient water use practices that lead to water wastage. water infrastructure systems are often outdated in both the most developed and the least developed regions. there is also a lack of information on their actual performance and losses. moreover, improperly treated wastewater continues to pollute the seas that wash up on the shores of the european union, and it is therefore necessary to speed up the deployment of wastewater treatment infrastructure in the member states. the europe 2020 strategy provides for a more responsible use of resources. the future of european industry depends on finding effective solutions to the current water problems and on the responsible and efficient management of existing water resources, which have direct implications for human health, energy production, agriculture and food security.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as water is essential to life and an inalienable public good, and proper water management is vital to the conservation of the world's natural resources and ecosystem functions, as well as to all aspects of resource use and economic production. the future of european industry depends on finding effective solutions to the current water problems and on the responsible and efficient management of existing water resources, which have direct implications for human health, energy production, agriculture and food security. europe's and the world's freshwater is at risk if it is not managed in a sustainable manner. urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological change and climate change are increasing the scarcity of accessible and quality, safe and secure water supplies. a particularly important step in european water policy is to implement the sustainability objectives by defining the ecological, chemical and qualitative 'good status' of european water bodies to be achieved by 2015. it is also necessary to speed up the deployment of waste water treatment infrastructure in the member states. there must be an eu policy response to current and future water problems to ensure sufficient access to good quality water for sustainable and appropriate use not only for us but also for future generations.
in writing. - i support this resolution. water is a common resource of mankind and a public good. water must be used sustainably, and water conservation requires a holistic approach. it is essential that internal market rules are adapted to the specific characteristics of the water sector and not the other way around. in order to promote research and innovation, both the member states and the commission need to support and implement the european innovation partnership for water. the financing of environmentally harmful subsidies should be phased out by 2020. in addition, a part of the fees collected by consumers for the provision of water and sanitation services should be allocated to the implementation of decentralised cooperation measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on ecall: a new 112 service for citizens. i support the introduction of a mandatory electronic system of emergency – ecall – in all new car models. the satellite-based electronic notification system shall be programmed to send automatically a signal to the nearest emergency call centre when a serious accident happens. it will transmit data, such as the exact location, vehicle id and the time of the accident. ecall should be activated via the existing pan-european emergency number 112. this has two advantages: first, in case of accidents, the severely injured would be given priority, and second, abuse can be prevented by the automatic recall of the rescue coordination centre. i also fully support the opinion that the mandatory deployment of a public ecall should be a public emergency call service, free of charge, for the benefit of any driver in europe, independently of his car brand.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the introduction of an emergency call service in all vehicles across the eu is one of the eu's key road safety priorities. this system is essential to increase the efficiency of emergency services, to improve road safety in europe and to help reduce the number of people killed and injured in road accidents. i agree that member states should modernise their emergency services infrastructure by 2015 to enable them to install the appropriate equipment to accept calls from the emergency call system. i agree that the system should be free of charge and that the public distress call service could be provided in conjunction with a private distress call service. however, it is also important to ensure that data relating to drivers is properly protected and that only those data elements are used that are necessary and relevant in the specific case.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the introduction of a european union-wide emergency call service, operating in all vehicles and in all countries, has been one of the union's main road safety priorities since 2002. the main benefit of the emergency call is the reduction in the number of road casualties and the less severe consequences of injuries due to the faster arrival of emergency services at the scene of an accident. according to official statistics on the emergency call service, the introduction of this system in all cars in the member states of the european union would save 2 500 lives a year and reduce the severity of injuries by 10-15%. however, the mandatory deployment of a public distress call service should not be based on or dependent on the existing positive experience of providing an independent distress call service in line with business principles. the benefits of the scheme to society at large should also be taken into account. the emergency call should be a public service to call for assistance, free of charge and available to any driver in europe, regardless of the make of the vehicle. the mandatory public call service could be a catalyst for the launch of many other commercial services that are already ready for the market but cannot be successfully delivered until the main application is in place. the distress call system could therefore encourage the development of other public or private telematic services that would provide even greater security and economic benefits.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution as the purpose of the in-vehicle emergency call system is to ensure that emergency services are automatically informed in the event of a serious accident, in order to reduce the number of people killed in road accidents and to alleviate the consequences of injuries suffered by them by the early arrival of qualified and properly equipped emergency workers (the so-called 'golden hour' rule). according to 2004 figures, road accidents kill more than 40 000 people and disable 150 000 people in the european union every year. in contrast, the emergency call system does not prevent accidents but would increase the efficiency of the emergency services. immediately informed emergency services, with knowledge of where the accident occurred, could arrive quickly at the scene and reduce the risk of death and the severity of the consequences of injuries. it should be noted that the results of many studies and projects based on scientific methods have confirmed the positive safety effects of emergency systems. the emergency call service should be free of charge and should be mandatory for all new vehicles. the public emergency call service should be simple, accessible, operational and accessible to all in the eu, regardless of the vehicle in which it is installed and the location where it is located.
in writing. - i voted yes. i am in favour of having the emergency call system installed in all new car and light vehicle models from 2015 and fully operational throughout the eu, and in other european countries that wish to do so. in lithuania alone, more than 6,000 car accidents occur each year, injuring more than 8,000 people and killing nearly 700. by 2015, the introduction of ecall in all cars in the eu member states would save 2,500 lives a year and reduce the severity of injuries by 10-15%. the cost of installing the 'ecall' system in a new car would be less than eur 100, but the consumer should not be subject to a financial burden and the emergency call service should be free of charge. the system shall not send any signals and shall be completely inactive until the sensors detect that a serious accident has occurred and automatically transmit the signal even if the driver or passenger involved in the accident is unconscious. the system can also be activated by a person who has, for example, witnessed an accident. studies show that this technology makes rescuers arrive 40% faster in urban areas and 50% faster in rural areas. it is regrettable that more than five years of voluntary system implementation have produced no results.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the ecall system is a vital system. the emergency call system should be continuously expanded and improved in order to improve the living conditions of citizens and even to save their lives. the full implementation of this system could save thousands of lives every year. it is very important that the system is used in heavy-duty, agricultural and industrial vehicles. these vehicles are used in remote and isolated areas, which sometimes leaves drivers with no access to emergency services in the event of an accident.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report in order to strengthen the protection of european citizens. the eu does so much for free movement within the member states, and we have to make this movement safe. i regret that many member states have not joined yet the ecall system. it is a joint project and all european citizens have the right to the same level of protection regardless their nationality. the improvement of the european emergency service will permit up to 2500 lives to be saved annually and to reduce the severity of injuries by 10-15%. therefore i support the rapporteur who calls on the commission to make legally binding decisions on that issue. i join the colleagues who are concerned about respect for the privacy of the people who have the ecall system installed. the system should not be allowed to track the movement of cars. only information on the exact place of the accident is necessary for intervention in case of emergency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on attractiveness of investing in europe, which was adopted at a very crucial time for europe, during which attracting investments and ensuring a balanced investment base in european regions are necessary elements for growth and economic recovery. we, members of the european parliament, urgently ask for growth to create wealth and employment, to encourage the competitiveness of the union globally, and to increase economic and regional convergence within the eu. i support the position of the rapporteur that our goal needs to be dual: firstly, europe needs to remain the first investment destination at a global level - a position that is at stake given the strong global competition from new investment destinations; secondly, investments need to contribute to balanced growth and cohesion within the eu. we, members of the european parliament, call for a european, comprehensive and integrated strategy for investments, within the framework of the eu 2020 strategy, to enhance the eu's effort to achieve higher growth rates and create jobs, particularly in countries that face weak growth or recession, as is the case in greece.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the review of the investment in europe strategy and its complementarity with new instruments. i believe that the eu needs to take advantage of the benefits of the world's largest single market (including a high standard of living, high labour productivity, legal certainty, research and innovation capacity). i agree that with rising unemployment and pessimistic forecasts for a european recovery, new measures are needed to retain existing investors and attract new ones. more effective instruments and methods, new financing mechanisms and investment systems are needed to address the problems of recession and slow growth. i agree that increasing investment in europe, creating jobs within the eu and maintaining the eu's international competitiveness is a priority. it is important to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu by reducing disparities between european regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the economic, financial and fiscal crisis in the european union has further increased the economic and social disparities between member states and regions, which have led to a disparate distribution of internal and external investment across the european union. the global economy has started to recover, but there is a lack of freedom of action and the prudent application of policies adopted at international, european union and national levels is needed to ensure a stable recovery process. growth in the european union is weak and growth forecasts vary across the european union. the weak growth is due to continued uncertainty and a lack of consumer and market confidence. the financing of member states' public debt has been used to finance investment, growth and job creation, and capital outflows from member states to other member states and third countries may contribute to the deterioration of the balance of payments situation in the european union. in order to overcome the fiscal crisis and to increase growth and employment, the union should continue to build on its strengths: high levels of consumption, education and quality of life, research and innovation capacity, high levels of labour productivity and efficiency, and a favourable and supportive business environment. it is therefore necessary to establish a coherent stability framework in the areas of monetary, fiscal and trade policies in order to stimulate the flow of direct investment in all member states and regions and thus contribute to the correction of the macroeconomic imbalances in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the attractiveness of investment in europe, as the economic, financial and fiscal crisis in the eu has further increased the economic and social disparities between member states and regions, which have led to a more uneven distribution of internal and external investment across the eu. a coherent stability framework in the areas of monetary, fiscal and trade policies is necessary to promote the flow of direct investment in all member states and regions, thereby contributing to the correction of the eu's macroeconomic imbalances. today, we have a clear need to mobilise eu policies to fully support growth, to do more to finance the economy through investment and to promote job creation. investors in the eu market are mainly attracted by its high quality and diverse human capital, highlighted by its corporate social responsibility, relatively predictable business environment and strong research and innovation potential. nevertheless, weak economic growth in europe, high taxes and a large accumulation of public debt are causing investors concern, which may be exacerbated by global competition, especially from emerging economies, and by the lack of opportunities to exploit the eu's full potential. the commission is therefore invited to prepare a communication to assess and promote the attractiveness of investing in europe, including policy recommendations to member states aimed at improving the eu investment environment. the high levels of youth unemployment in some member states and the negative employment prospects, particularly in lithuania, are a cause for concern.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i am calling on the european commission to develop a communication to assess and promote the attractiveness of investment in europe. the economic, financial and budgetary crisis in the european union, high taxation and economic and social disparities between member states and regions are all factors that are holding back foreign investment in europe. this situation could worsen with increasing competition from emerging countries. the european union must implement a strategy that better meets the expectations of investors.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. to withstand the competition from emerging economies, it is necessary to do everything possible to make europe more attractive for investment. the commission must therefore act without delay and prepare as soon as possible a communication setting out measures to improve the eu investment environment and recommendations to the member states. it is also essential to finally complete the establishment of an efficiently functioning internal market and to modernise the european public procurement market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the association agreements with the eastern partnership trading countries with a view to establishing a close cooperation and comprehensive free trade area. with china's growing influence on european trade and russia's continued protectionist policies, the eu's european neighbourhood policy with its eastern partners is a priority objective for the union. i believe that the prospect of close cooperation and a comprehensive free trade area with the eu is one of the major ambitions of the eu's bilateral trade policy in order to combat protectionist tendencies on a global scale. the development of trade in the eastern partnership is essential to avoid regional conflicts in the future, which lead to economic isolation. the development of trade relations with the eastern partners is therefore important not only economically, but also in terms of the development of democracy, the rule of law and the general principles of the eu. i believe that the benefits of integration should in the long term compensate the eastern partners for the efforts they have made.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the priority objective of the renewed european neighbourhood policy and the high ambition towards the eastern partners is to conclude and implement association agreements, including the establishment of close cooperation and a comprehensive free trade area. only four of the six eastern partnership countries are already wto members, with the governments of azerbaijan and belarus having observer status only. however, all the eu's eastern partners, which are the states of the former ussr, share the same historical and institutional basis. they have also faced similar difficulties in the political, social and economic transition over the past two decades. moreover, following the revolutionary events in the european union's southern neighbourhood in 2011, the european union's interest in the southern neighbourhood has increased and the eastern partnership countries and the european union's trade relations with them have attracted the attention of the european union. the european union has a strong interest in the well-being and stability of the european union's eastern neighbourhood. similarly, as the eu and its eastern partners develop stable and predictable relations, trade flows in both directions will undoubtedly increase. it is therefore necessary to conclude a close cooperation and comprehensive free trade agreement (cfta) to pursue the economic integration of the european union and the eastern partnership countries, taking a broad approach and taking into account other aspects of free and fair trade.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the trade aspects of the eastern partnership, as the prospect of close cooperation and the creation of a comprehensive free trade area with the eu is one of the main reasons for the partner countries to continue their efforts to pursue reforms. i consider the establishment of a close cooperation and comprehensive free trade area to be one of the most ambitious measures in the eu's bilateral trade policy, aimed at creating a stable, transparent and predictable economic environment, respectful of democracy, the rule of law and the rule of law, which would not only allow for greater economic integration by gradually removing barriers to trade, but also ensure greater regulatory convergence in areas affecting trade in goods and services, in particular by strengthening investment protection, simplifying customs and border procedures, reducing technical and other non-tariff barriers to trade, tightening sanitary and phytosanitary rules, improving animal welfare, strengthening competition and the legal basis for public procurement and ensuring sustainable development.
in writing. - i voted yes. the european parliament reaffirmed its support for the aspirations and reforms of the european eastern partnership countries. the eu is seeking to create not only a space of close political cooperation but also a stable, transparent and predictable space of economic cooperation. the creation of such a trading area requires a mutual effort and i am pleased that dcftas are moving in many respects forward. trade policy is one of the most effective instruments for promoting reforms. this is not an aid measure and it is therefore essential that the eap countries continue to make every effort to enable such agreements to be concluded. on the other hand, trends in the region are contrary to the eu's ambitions. it is regrettable that some people still feel that an area of stability, transparency, sustainable development and democracy is against their interests.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as a comprehensive free trade area can only function on the basis of close and reliable cooperation. the progressive removal of barriers to trade requires that the partner countries duly fulfil the conditions laid down. particular attention shall be paid to the implementation of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in addition, investment protection must be strengthened and customs and other administrative procedures simplified. this would provide a strong impetus for change towards regulatory compatibility and the removal of tariff and other barriers by the measure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, because it provides comprehensive analysis of strong and weak aspects of trade relations with the eu’s eastern partners and outlines necessary developments in this field. the eu has supported the progress of democracy and the market economy in partner countries in the east since the very beginning of their independence. sustainable and transparent relations with these countries are in the utmost interest of the eu, and dcftas are an appropriate tool to achieve it. still, good implementation remains the challenge. further progress has to be merit-driven. i share the rapporteur’s concerns about competition with russia in the region. the eu should strengthen partnership relations with russia and not offer two alternative paths for the eastern neighbourhood partners. i regret that belarus consistently fails to be involved in european integration. i hope that the eu will find new instruments and approaches to initiate political change in the country and its rapprochement towards eu standards.
mr president, i thank commissioner de gucht for his substantial answer, which clarifies the concerns raised by the committee on international trade and the committee on foreign affairs. i believe it is a step forward to make parliament and the international trade committee ready for their final decisions on this issue and to give european patients access to high-quality pharmaceutical products. we all know that this protocol has been under consideration in the european parliament for more than two years. i hope two years is more than enough to discuss in depth, to scrutinise all possible aspects of this agreement and to verify benefits and risks to european markets and european citizens. i am sure that it is time to give a green light to the implementation of the agreement. as has been rightly pointed out today by commissioner de gucht, this protocol is part of the euro-mediterranean agreement, which came into force in 1995, establishing an association between the european communities and their member states and the state of israel. its protocol 5 defines measures and rules on mutual assistance between administrative authorities on customs matters. it is important to mention today that there are instruments in place to detect cases of abuse. these instruments are legally binding and have been used in the past. the commission proposed additional improvements and measures to be applied in order to strengthen customs procedures and verify conformity requirements and country of origin declarations. i believe that legal measures are sufficient. they are functional and they are transparent. i believe that the international trade committee should move to a vote on the agreement without delay, facilitating a decision on consent to this agreement to be voted on in the plenary session following our summer recess.
in writing. the proposal to amend the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of direct payments to farmers concerns in particular the year 2013. however, it should be borne in mind that the calendar year 2013 corresponds to the financial year 2014, i.e. it falls within the next multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020. the proposed regulation should be seen in a broader perspective and not only as a provision for a transitional period of one year. the establishment in the regulation of net ceilings for direct payments for calendar year 2013 in order to ensure stable levels of payments and to reach them in the new member states does not raise any major controversy. however, there is no explicit reference in the regulation to the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no rational justification for sanctioning the existing disparities in agricultural financing that create an artificial division between two europeans in the agricultural sector. this is not only unfair but also restricts the competitiveness of agriculture in the new member states, in contrast to the slogans of equal opportunities and of equalising the level of development between the old and the new union. the lack of a clear statement on this issue may give rise to suspicions that the unequal treatment of farmers will continue in the future, and this cannot be allowed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 laying down the rules applicable to the current system of direct payments to farmers should be replaced by proposals for the reform of the cap 2014-2020, which should apply from 1 january 2014. while council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 will continue to apply in 2013, some financial provisions will only be valid until 2012. the calendar year 2013 also corresponds to the financial year 2014, which means that the new financial framework for 2014-2020 will already apply this year. this proposal was drawn up to provide for financial provisions for the transitional period of 2013. it is therefore necessary to fix the net ceilings for direct payments for calendar year 2013 by establishing a modulation-like adjustment mechanism to ensure continuity of the level of payments, taking also into account the gradual increase of payments for the new member states and the voluntary discontinuation of modulation. in order to ensure continuity of support to farmers in 2013, this act should enter into force before 1 january 2013. it should also be borne in mind that this commission proposal was drawn up on the basis of the assumption that the proposal for the harmonisation of the communication (com (2010) 539) would be adopted first. therefore, at the time of the approval of the notification in question, the ongoing procedure should be taken into account and possibly additional amendments should be submitted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is a way of bringing existing legal rules into line with the new legal reality. one of the first proposals is to regulate the current proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers. proposed amendments for regulatory and simplification purposes of regulation 73/2009. the proposal also includes a number of provisions aimed at simplifying the existing legal environment and reducing the administrative burden on member states. these amendments include the cross-linking of support and the possibility for member states to exempt farmers who do not apply for area payments and who declare only small areas (less than 1 ha). they will apply in principle only to livestock farmers who do not have eligible land to apply for area payments. it is considered difficult to estimate the number of farmers who may be affected, but given the ongoing decoupling of livestock payments and the transition to area payments, it can be assumed that there will be few. this amendment reduces the administrative burden for some member states. this should help to achieve greater legal clarity and definition.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which has two objectives: firstly, to adapt existing legislation to the new provisions of the treaty concerning the commission's implementing powers and, secondly, to simplify the current procedures by reducing the administrative burden on the member states. the proposal will thus increase legal clarity and security, thereby making the lisbon treaty a reality for the benefit of farmers and, more broadly, european citizens.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in the light of the new comitology system provided for in the treaty of lisbon, it is appropriate to empower the commission to adopt, by means of implementing acts, a mechanism for the granting of certain specific support. i therefore support the proposal that the commission, without the assistance of the direct payments committee, should be able to decide which member states qualify for certain suckler cow premiums and which do not. it could also empower the new member states to supplement direct payments if they fulfil certain conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, since the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) requires the existing regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 (as one of the first proposals) to be harmonised on the basis of the principle of the allocation of implementing powers and of the delegation of powers between the measures adopted by the commission on the basis of regulations (ec) no 1974/2006 and (ec) no 1975/2006, which are currently implementing powers. the commission proposal proposes to ensure an efficient and targeted use of funds by creating a level playing field for beneficiaries, which is mainly covered by delegated acts. further provisions on the details of specific programmes, measures and rules in the proposal shall be contained in implementing acts to be adopted by the member states. it is necessary to ensure that the financing currently available to cover the costs of setting up producer groups and administrative activities is available to all member states without discrimination between producer groups in the fruit and vegetables sector. similarly, in order to avoid a different interpretation of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005, it would be useful to allow the calculation of the automatic decommitment of financial resources of member states that have opted for regional programmes to be carried out at member state level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal as it incorporates some simplification provisions into the existing regulation, extends the scope of natura 2000 support to the areas referred to in article 10 of the habitats directive (92/43/eec) (these are the legal aspects of the proposal), reduces the number of annual progress and consolidated reports in the field of rural development policy, facilitates the control of cross-compliance and replaces the rules on the use of advisory services (these provisions should help to reduce the administrative burden on member states). in addition, measures adopted under article 43 of the treaty (co-financed measures under rural development policy) should be subject to incentives as a (legal) simplification provision.
in writing. − it is essential to establish a mechanism to ensure that all producer groups are not discriminated against and can benefit from the support provided on an equal footing. furthermore, detailed analyses must be carried out to find a compromise between environmental provisions and local development mismatches. the proper use of the fund will help to resolve economic investment and environmental protection issues in an operational and effective manner.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to align council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 on the common organisation of agricultural markets with the new separation of powers between the commission and the member states under articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). for the sake of completeness, this proposal incorporates the proposals for amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 which the commission has already submitted separately to the european parliament and to the council. it is proposed to align regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 with the new requirements based on the division of the existing commission powers into delegated and implementing powers under regulation (ec) no 1234/2007. this was done in the light of implementing measures adopted by the commission under its existing mandate. in order to ensure a balance between the effective and rational functioning of the commission and the legislative powers conferred on parliament and the council by the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary to adopt the new regulation as soon as possible. in this way, the substantial future reform of the single common market organisation (in the context of the overall reform of the cap) would not unduly complicate the still pending negotiations on the commission's proposed harmonisation, which is still under consideration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal as the commission's proposal aims to reconcile council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 on the common organisation of the markets with the new separation of powers conferred on the commission and implementing powers laid down in articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in addition, for the sake of completeness, this proposal incorporates the proposals for amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 which the commission has already submitted separately to the european parliament and to the council. this proposal empowers the legislator to lay down the framework for the common organisation of the markets. for example, the legislator sets the objectives of market intervention measures, production restriction schemes and aid schemes. the legislator also lays down the principle for the establishment of a system of import and export licences, the essential aspects of the rules relating to trade and production and the principle for the application of penalties, reductions in payments and their abolition. in addition, the legislator provides for specific provisions for individual sectors. the principle to be followed is that an effective and rational balance must be struck between the commission's activities and the legislative powers conferred on parliament and the council by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which aims to adapt the council regulation to the new treaty provisions on the commission's implementing powers. the proposal will increase legal clarity and certainty, thereby bringing the lisbon treaty into effect, and will make the common organisation of the single market more accessible to all stakeholders.
in writing. − it is essential that the legislation relating to the single organisation of agricultural markets is simplified, transparent and as clear as possible to citizens. in addition, in each case, the decision to adopt delegated acts should be taken with caution and only in specific and limited cases. any abuse of this right must be prevented. i believe that the commission should consult experts from the member states on a regular basis and take their views into due account in order to ensure the necessary quality of delegated acts and their feasibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as, in accordance with the general agreement on procedures for the application of delegated acts in practice, approved by the conference of presidents on 3 march 2011, and regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules, mechanisms and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers, a number of amendments should be made to the conditions for delegation (period of delegation, period for lodging objections to a delegated act, extension of this period, committee procedure, etc.). under the treaty of lisbon, the alignment of regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 with the new rules of the treaty is based on that regulation, by applying the classification of provisions adopted by the commission into delegated and implementing powers. the amendments relating to expenditure financed by the eagf and to the recovery procedure aim at simplification by repealing two council regulations and reducing the administrative burden on the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal, since, under the lisbon treaty, the alignment of regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 with the new treaty rules is based on the application of the classification of provisions adopted by the commission into delegated and implementing powers under that regulation. the committee examined the commission proposal in detail and identified areas where the conditions for delegated acts were met. the conditions for implementing acts were subsequently verified. the rapporteur proposed a number of amendments concerning the conditions for delegation (period of delegation, period for objections to a delegated act, extension of this period, committee procedure, etc.), based on the framework agreement on procedures for the application of practical reciprocal acts, approved by the conference of presidents on 3 march 2011, and on regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules, mechanisms and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the amendments relating to expenditure financed by the eagf and to the recovery procedure aim at simplification by repealing two council regulations and reducing the administrative burden on the member states.
in writing. − i support this resolution, but it is of the utmost importance to ensure that legislation on the financing of the cap is clear and understandable to citizens. the principle of legal clarity and certainty must therefore be properly applied and legitimate expectations must be taken into account at all times. moreover, the implementation of the legislation should not impose additional administrative burdens on member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report regarding organic production and labelling of organic products. we, members of the european parliament, encouraged the commission to adopt specific rules, measures and conditions necessary for the application of this regulation in order to better take account of the expectations of consumers regarding the quality of organic products and to ensure the adequate application of rules by the authorities, bodies and operators concerned and the proper functioning of the single market and trade. it is very important that all member states adopt all measures of national law necessary to implement the regulation and to ensure high quality of organic products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation (ec) no 834/2007 on the harmonisation of organic production and labelling of organic products. harmonisation is proposed in order to take better account of consumer expectations as regards the quality of organic products and to ensure the correct application of the rules by the authorities and operators concerned, as well as the proper functioning of the single market and the smooth functioning of trade. it is necessary to reduce the unnecessary bureaucratic burden on organic farmers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as, in order to better take into account consumer expectations regarding the quality of organic products and to ensure that the rules are properly applied by the relevant institutions, bodies and operators, as well as to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the smooth functioning of trade, it is necessary to adopt by means of delegated acts the specific rules, measures and conditions applicable to this regulation (for example, on the authorisation of products and materials for use in organic production, their inclusion in the restricted list or their removal from it for the purposes laid down in articles 16 and 21, on the processing methods used for food processing, on the prohibition of the use of gmos and products produced from or with gmos, on the conditions of application for labelling rules and other aspects). the proposal for a partial amendment of regulation (ec) no 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products does not propose any amendments concerning the classification of delegated and implementing acts. in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the current regulation (ec) no 834/2007 is to be harmonised on the basis of the principle of separation between implementing and delegated measures. this proposal is one of several commission proposals for legislative approximation to adapt agricultural legislation to the new provisions provided for in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because, under the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the current regulation (ec) no 834/2007 must be harmonised on the basis of the principle of separation between implementing and delegated measures. article 290 tfeu allows the legislator to 'delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-general legislative acts supplementing or amending non-essential elements of a legislative act'. the treaty refers to the acts adopted by the commission in this way as delegated acts (article 290 (3)). in order to better take into account consumer expectations as regards the quality of organic products and to ensure the proper application of the rules by the institutions, bodies and operators concerned, as well as to ensure the proper functioning of the single market and the smooth functioning of trade, the commission shall adopt by means of delegated acts the specific rules, measures and conditions necessary for the application of this regulation (for example, on the authorisation of products and materials for use in organic production, their inclusion in the restricted list or their deletion for the purposes laid down in articles 16 and 21; on processing methods used for processed food; on the conditions of application of the ban on the use of gmos and products produced from or using gmos). the labelling rules, requirements and specific criteria for the presentation, content, size and design of the organic production logo of the european union, as well as the conditions and rights for its use under title iv, etc.).
in writing. - i support this resolution. for reasons of legal clarity and certainty, the regulation currently in force should be aligned with the principle of separation between implementing and delegated measures. this will better reflect consumer expectations for the quality of organic products it will also enable the authorities concerned and other relevant actors to apply the rules more effectively and create favourable conditions for the smooth functioning of the common market and trade. i consider it appropriate to entrust the commission with the task of adopting, by means of delegated acts, the specific rules, measures and conditions necessary for the application of this regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is one of several commission proposals for legislative approximation to adapt agricultural legislation to the new provisions of the treaty of lisbon. the harmonisation procedure is related to articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in order to update the existing provisions in the light of legal reality, it is necessary to check the provisions of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 485/2008 on the component of the financing system of the european agricultural guarantee fund for transactions carried out by member states. the commission proposal has been analysed in detail on the basis of the criteria applicable to each type of legislation and the areas where the conditions for delegated acts have been met have been identified. the conditions for implementing acts were subsequently verified. no inconsistencies were observed. the use of the provisions of delegated and implementing acts in these articles is appropriate. however, the wording of the parts of the articles relating to the delegation of power do not correspond to the standard wording of those articles agreed in the draft framework agreement or to the wording endorsed by the institutions when adopting regulation no 438/2010, and therefore their replacement is necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal as it amends regulation no 485/2008 by including one provision on delegated acts (article 1 (2) which sets out the list of measures to which the regulation does not apply). the first sentence of article 1 (2) of regulation no 485/2008 refers to regulation no 1782/2003 (1), which is no longer in force and has been replaced by regulation no 73/2009 (2), and this provision has not been amended by the proposal and therefore needs to be amended. the treaty of lisbon abolishes the old comitology system, which was based on the classical comitology procedures (consultative, administrative, regulatory) and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this system is replaced by a two-tier system, consisting of delegated and implementing acts (in the former case parliament has a veto) and conferring implementing and enforcement powers on the commission. in this way, the existing legal rules must be adapted to this new legal reality. one of the first proposals is to harmonise this proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 485/2008 on the verification of transactions carried out by member states in the framework of the financing of the european agricultural guarantee fund. the proposal is limited to changes that are made for the purpose of harmonisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-russia agreement on the preservation of commitments on trade in services. this eu-russia agreement contained in the current eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement must be viewed in the light of the new legal framework arising from russia’s recent accession to the world trade organisation. as a result of that accession, russia will become a country that is relatively open to foreign services. although russia has agreed to lower its barriers to trade and investment and to grant more favourable treatment than it did previously to foreign service providers in 11 sectors covering professional services, it services, construction, postal services, telecommunications, media, transport, distribution, tourism and travel, and financial services, we, members of the ep, urge the russian government to make major adjustments in the russian law, in particular trade and competition law and customs regulations, in order to be able to implement those concessions. the ep and all european community expect that the commitments made by russia would not only provide new business opportunities for eu firms; they would also improve the business environment – not least as regards non-discrimination and free competition – for eu exporters and investors already working with russia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a new bilateral eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement on trade in services, replacing the 1994 partnership and cooperation agreement. russia's accession to the world trade organisation and compliance with the general agreement on trade in services (gats) will liberalise trade in services and provide much greater market access for foreign service providers. it is important that the eu and russia renew the terms of bilateral commitments that are almost 20 years old, in order to give the eu additional concessions compared to the multilateral regime and to maintain russia's current commitments on market access for european service providers in the maritime trade and temporary labour mobility sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of an agreement, as the eu must conclude a bilateral agreement with russia in order to obtain additional concessions compared to a multilateral regime. the russian commitments to liberalise the trade regime provide for more rights in many service sectors than under the regime hitherto applied to european companies under the partnership and cooperation agreement signed in 1994 and implemented since 1997. the european union would continue to benefit from a more favourable regime and greater benefits compared to the multilateral framework. this bilateral agreement defines these commitments to grant exclusive privileges to the european union only. it does not impose any new obligations on the european union. the agreement should also strengthen the rights of european service providers to establish themselves in the territory of russia.
in writing. − i agree with this agreement on the continuation of the obligations on trade in services, which will continue to apply a more favourable treatment to the european union. the liberalisation of trade arrangements will give more rights to many service sectors. i think it is appropriate and necessary for the eu to conclude a bilateral agreement with russia, as it will already provide more additional concessions than a multilateral regime. it is of particular importance that the current commitments by russia on market access for european service providers in the maritime trade and temporary labour mobility in the service sectors are maintained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-russia agreement on trade in parts and components of motor vehicles. the eu has negotiated this bilateral agreement to have a compensation mechanism for the eu car components producers if the risk of falling eu exports of such products to russia materialises as a result of the application of russia's automobile investment programme until 2018. the eu must adopt this agreement because it is tied to its wto commitments. to ensure that the scheme benefits its producers immediately, it must do so before the russian federation joins wto. i support the position of the rapporteur that the survival of trade-distorting measures in russia after its wto accession is regretful, but it is important to stress that the eu producers of automobile components will benefit from a compensation scheme in case their exports to russia fall significantly. we, members of the ep, call for a close monitoring of the evolution of the trade relation in vehicles and their components between the eu and russia and, if necessary, for renegotiating the terms of the compensation scheme.
in writing. − with the recent accession of the russian federation to the world trade organisation, it is necessary for the eu and russia to conclude bilateral agreements in order to secure for the european union additional bilateral trade concessions that complement the existing system. a bilateral agreement would be beneficial to both parties in promoting beneficial trade and investment. however, it is of concern that the russian accession package tolerates certain trade-distorting measures, such as the russian automotive package, which imposes an obligation on car manufacturers to have a place of business in russia, which means that imported car parts and components are subject to discriminatory conditions and restrictions on imports. it is necessary to ensure that such measures are removed in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of the agreement because the eu negotiated this bilateral agreement with the aim of establishing a mechanism for compensation to eu car parts manufacturers in the event of a risk of a decline in eu exports of these products to russia due to the application of the russian investment programme in the automotive sector until 2018. the eu is obliged to ratify this agreement as it is linked to its wto obligations. to ensure that this regime immediately benefits its producers, the eu must do so before russia joins the wto. the aim of this agreement is to take into account the assumption that there is a risk that eu exports of automotive parts to russia will decrease. however, the european commission argues that russia's accession to the wto will generate significantly more business opportunities in the eu automotive sector in russia. the establishment of such a backstop is paradoxical: stakeholders, including eu negotiators, are not clearly aware of the future trends in bilateral trade in cars and their related details.
in writing. − i believe that it is appropriate and useful for the eu to conclude an agreement with russia on trade in parts and components for motor vehicles. first, it is an eu commitment to the wto. the compensation mechanism provided for therein will also ensure that the investment regime in the automotive sector does not reduce imports of parts and components for motor vehicles from the union into the russian federation. the application of the agreement will therefore bring clear benefits to their producers and will provide significantly more business opportunities in russia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-russia agreement on the introduction or increase by the russian federation of export duties on raw materials. the agreement is an important step in stabilising the trade relationship between the eu and russia, which might serve as a substantial improvement in trade relations. russia exports numerous raw materials for which there is a high demand in the eu. in the context of russia's accession to the world trade organisation (wto), the country has committed itself to gradually reducing or eliminating its existing export duties. however, not all the essential goods are covered by russia's commitments in the wto accession. for this reason, the eu has negotiated a separate agreement to ensure that no additional export duties are applied on raw materials important for the eu. i support the rapporteur that despite this step forward, the agreement has several important shortcomings and has to be considered as a temporary solution until it is replaced by an adequately strong treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu-russia agreement on the introduction or increase of export duties on raw materials by the russian federation. the eu is a major importer of these raw materials, which could potentially disrupt global supply. as the eu is russia's largest trading partner and investor, it is necessary to reach an agreement on further trade aspects, applying the principle of reciprocity and the commitments that russia has undertaken at the time of its accession to the wto. it is important to ensure that a partnership and cooperation agreement, setting out strict and binding principles for bilateral trade, is secured in the longer term.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of the agreement, as this bilateral agreement commits the russian government to make every effort not to impose or increase export duties on raw materials listed in the agreement. in order to apply export duties to these products, russia will have to consult the european commission at least two months before their application in order to reach a mutually acceptable solution. the eu is russia's largest trading partner and investor. it is therefore expected that the commitments to the urgent reforms required by wto accession will be given with the appropriate gravity, respecting the principle of reciprocity and commitments in the negotiation of a new agreement of mutual benefit, in particular in the areas of energy, trade and investment. the agreement should therefore be seen as a temporary measure to be replaced by a sufficiently stringent eu-russian federation agreement on trade in raw materials, which is likely to be an integral part of the new agreement currently under negotiation.
in writing. − i agree to the conclusion of this agreement on the export duties on raw materials levied or increased by the russian federation. it should be noted that the agreement contains a comprehensive list of raw materials of major import importance to the eu. it is therefore essential that russia, the eu's largest trading partner and investor, does not apply or increase export duties on these raw materials, which pose a threat to global supply due to the supply disruption. however, given certain shortcomings of the agreement, i believe that it should be seen and applied only as a temporary measure, soon to be replaced by a strict, comprehensive and clear eu-russia agreement on trade in raw materials.
in writing. − i supported the proposal to postpone the vote until the european court of justice gives its legal assessment, requested by the commission. i regret that majority of the ep rejected acta. rejecting acta without trying to address concrete concerns, after years of negotiations, does nothing to handle serious threats to european jobs and enterprises acta intended to solve. large-scale infringements of intellectual property rights cost europeans hundreds of thousands of jobs and many millions in lost revenues. vote against acta also diminished possibilities to fight counterfeit medicines which pose serious threats to the health of european patients. european union does not have many natural resources which could bring substantial revenues. our main resource is our people and intellectual products created by them, which must be protected. with regard to our citizens, acta was an instrument to protect their intellectual property rights and i regret that the european parliament rejected it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which sought to reject the conclusion of the acta agreement on behalf of the european union. acta is an important trade agreement that addresses the problems of counterfeiting and piracy on the internet for commercial purposes by coordinating the enforcement of existing copyright infringement laws at the global level. however, the text of the acta is not sufficiently precise as regards the measures envisaged against individuals, the definition of the concept of 'commercial purposes', the role of internet service providers and the possible disruption of the transit of generic medicines. the future benefits of this international agreement are thus far outweighed by the potential risks to civil liberties.
in writing. − i voted against this agreement because the adverse effects of acta are of great concern. the benefits of this international agreement far outweigh any threat to civil liberties. given the uncertainty and doubts about the interpretation of some aspects of the text of the document, the european parliament will not be able to ensure adequate protection of citizens' rights in the future on the basis of acta. therefore, i am against the conclusion of acta. it should also be noted that this agreement was opposed not only by the main international trade committee but also by the four other parliamentary committees which prepared an opinion on the matter.
in writing. − i voted against this treaty because the fight against piracy, copyright and the proposed document which aims to legitimize total citizens' spying, with reference to individual rights and freedoms, are two different things and have nothing in common. if such an agreement comes into force, it will restrict the freedom of the internet, the personal rights of citizens, the interference in their private lives, and i am sure that their fears have a very real basis. the fact that there is no court ruling and no legal guarantee that acta does not violate any treaty or fundamental human rights is another strong argument for not voting for such a treaty.
in writing. − i voted against acta, which was designed to protect intellectual property against counterfeiting and illegal distribution, because it could restrict freedom on the internet. my decision was also influenced by the thousands of emails that came to my inbox urging me to vote against acta. i think the decision on acta is a political issue. i therefore support my socialist colleagues who opposed the proposal by the ppe members to postpone the vote until the conclusion of the court of justice of the eu assessing the consequences of the acta treaty. i agree with the rapporteur, mr martin, who pointed out that some of the provisions of acta are contrary to the eu charter of fundamental rights, as they do not fully guarantee the right to privacy and the protection of personal information. while it is important to combat counterfeiting and piracy, isps should not play the role of policeman. we need to protect artists and their work, but we cannot allow the freedom of the internet to be violated. this rejection should not mark the end but the beginning of a global debate on how to protect intellectual property in the european union.
in writing. − i voted against this document because i do not agree with the reduction in the amount of direct payments to be granted to a farmer in calendar year 2013 in general.
in writing. - i do not support this resolution. i think that the setting of net ceilings for direct payments will have negative consequences. first, farmers will receive lower payments. the current economic crisis and its negative impact will pose serious risks to farmers. their competitiveness, productivity and operational efficiency will be reduced. this is likely to have a negative impact on end-users.
in writing. − this communication is of particular importance to farmers in the new eu member states, including lithuania, as it sets out the conditions for direct payments for the transitional period of 2013. the new eu member states are given the opportunity to join the system of additional direct payments, which could give their farmers up to 20% more payments. this will encourage greater eu integration, as the current level of direct payments to farmers varies several times between countries. this is not correct, given that farming costs are similar in the eu. i voted in favour of this report because it is a good example of a compromise reached in difficult negotiations. this gives hope that in the next difficult negotiations on the 2014-2020 agricultural financial perspective, greater fairness in direct payments for all farmers in the eu will be achieved. this is particularly relevant for farmers in the three baltic states, who currently receive the lowest payments in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on 2013 budget - mandate for trilogue. the commission and the eu council must ensure that inter-institutional cooperation is fruitful because, without a common starting base, it will not be possible to have a joint vision on the real needs. the european parliament must lead the fight for payments because funds are needed for commitments made over the last years and no one can ignore that today, with a level of outstanding commitments amounting to eur 207 billion, there are still many bills to be paid. in particular, the need for payments focuses on those sections that are more related to development and economic growth and this is why it is important to conduct this battle. it is important to stress that the eu budget for the year 2013 is the last one of the current financial framework. for this reason, an increase in the level of due payments at the end of the programming period is expected. that is why it will be even more important to avoid a dangerous shift of payments from 2012 to 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is important to focus investments on the priority areas identified in europe 2020 in the light of the complex economic circumstances and the burden on national budgets. i support the proposal to increase payments by 6.8% to stimulate growth and job creation in the eu and the proposal to increase commitments by 2% at current inflation levels. i am in favour of increasing payments to the research framework programme, the competitiveness and innovation programme, the structural funds and the cohesion fund and the lifelong learning programme. i believe that resources should be allocated to areas where the eu budget delivers additional benefits and reduced in areas where delays occur and little money is spent. i support calls on the commission to present its draft amending budget for the corresponding additional appropriations as soon as all member states have ratified the act of accession of croatia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because europe is experiencing a serious economic, financial and budgetary crisis and because it is necessary to take all measures to ensure that the budget of the european union is used as efficiently as possible to restore the economy. in the current difficult environment, one of the most demanding tasks is to promote growth and create jobs, especially for young people. similarly, the collection of vat and customs duties has a direct impact on the economies of the member states and on the budget of the european union. financial responsibility is therefore particularly important in times of crisis. furthermore, to enable the european union to play an active role in global markets, sufficient funds must be allocated from the budget of the european union. the union budget should therefore take into account the priorities set by the common commercial policy as part of the europe 2020 strategy. the european union and the member states must pay close attention to their partnership with developing countries. it is necessary to examine the issue of unspent appropriations carefully in the preparation of the 2013 budget and in the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework in order to ensure that the budget is implemented as efficiently and effectively as possible. similarly, different types of revenue have different negative effects and the possibility of covering the costs of revenue collection from other sources of revenue should be considered.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the eu budget is a common and effective instrument for investment and solidarity, which is needed especially at this time to stimulate economic growth, competitiveness and job creation in the 27 member states. despite its small size, representing less than 2% of total union public expenditure, the eu budget has had a real economic impact and has thus successfully complemented member states' economic recovery policies. it is therefore necessary to support an appropriate level of resources in the budget for the following year, as defined in the draft budget, and to oppose all efforts to reduce resources, in particular policy measures that promote growth and employment. in times of crisis, the financial responsibility and resources that are crucial must be allocated to areas where the eu budget can provide additional benefits and could be reduced in sectors where unjustified delays occur and where little is used to save queues that have caused problems of execution.
in writing. − it is essential that the 2013 budget is realistic and that resources are allocated to areas that can deliver additional benefits. it is also essential that the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy are implemented in a cost-effective manner. the green economy is a crucial factor for the eu's future competitiveness and resilience and more resources must be devoted to its promotion. even in difficult economic conditions, the eu cannot freeze its budget, as this would cause enormous damage not only to individual member states but also to the european union as a whole. this is not an acceptable and justifiable strategy. in view of the strict austerity policies being implemented by the member states, i believe that the eu must act more responsibly and take decisive action, in particular by determining the location of the european parliament's headquarters.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a new animal welfare strategy for 2012-15, the implementation of which would be based on experience, understandable legislation and easy control. a high level of animal welfare is integral to sustainable development and it is therefore important not only to achieve the objectives of the new strategy but also to complete the objectives of the 2006-2010 strategy with additional funding. i believe that the new strategy should harmonise animal welfare at eu level and contribute to improving animal and public health. it is important that animal welfare issues are given due consideration in trade policy and in bilateral and international trade agreements. i believe that the implementation of the objectives of the new animal welfare strategy would help to ensure the productivity and competitiveness of the european livestock sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the commission communication on a strategy for animal welfare 2012-2015 is very necessary, especially as it addresses many of the issues addressed in parliament's resolution of 5 may 2010. the health status of wild animals is deteriorating and their population is increasing in most member states. this may not only lead to an increase in the number of pet-borne infectious diseases but also to a deterioration in public health. the complexity and different interpretation of eu and national animal welfare rules creates legal uncertainty. this may put producers in some member states at a much more competitive disadvantage than others. similarly, the implementation of eu legislation, in the absence of the requirements laid down, the harmonised standards and the intermediate objectives approved by the legislation, distorts competition and fails to ensure a level playing field for all market participants. animal health standards are crucial for the development of livestock farming in europe and increasingly affect the competitiveness of farms. similarly, rules on animal welfare must not be contrary to the principles of the eu's single market. if we make good use of this communication on the animal welfare strategy 2012-2015, we will be able to achieve a clear and uniform level of animal welfare throughout the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as the commission's communication on a strategy for animal welfare 2012-2015 is very much needed. there are a myriad of different national legal requirements currently in force. there is no universal definition of terms and complex rules and requirements make it difficult for keepers or owners to understand good animal husbandry practice or good practice. as a result, animal welfare conditions currently vary widely across the eu member states. if we make good use of this communication, we can achieve a clear and uniform level of animal welfare throughout the eu. maintaining a high level of animal welfare, which is integral to sustainable development, is important to protect animal and public health and to ensure the productivity and competitiveness of the european livestock sector. the commission also included in its communication the parliament's proposal for a european animal welfare framework law. the basic principles of such a law would be transparency, simplification and practical application of scientific principles. the complexity and lack of information on current european and national animal welfare rules has led to legal uncertainty and distortions of competition due to non-compliance and lack of legal means. this is why we need a new approach to animal welfare: it should be based on science and recognised experience of recent years, legislation should be easy to understand and easy to control.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it is necessary to ensure a high level of animal welfare at eu level. a uniform, comprehensive and systematic approach to animal protection needs to be established. it is very important to remember that animal welfare is linked to the welfare of producers. in this context, it is essential that the commission and the member states, through joint efforts, seek to invest in projects that explore and find ways to promote the welfare of producers and reduce administrative burdens. it is also essential that animal welfare rules are compatible with the principles of the eu's single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because there is still no european union legislation to protect pets and stray animals, despite the estimated number of over 100 million pets in the european union. not all member states have yet signed the european convention for the protection of animals kept as pets, and pets and stray animals are often the victims of mistreatment and cruelty in many member states. in accordance with article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the union and the member states are to take full account of animal welfare requirements. it is therefore necessary for the european union and the member states to ratify the european convention for the protection of pet animals and to transpose its provisions into national law. the main steps in the european union's animal welfare system can be: strengthening the link between animal health and public health, full compliance and enforcement of legislation, implementation of the european animal welfare system, establishment of equivalent welfare standards for all imported animals and products, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because animals are sentient beings and the union and the member states must take full account of animal welfare requirements. to date, no eu legislation has been developed to protect pets and stray animals. nor have all member states signed the european convention for the protection of pet animals. pets and stray animals are victims of maltreatment and cruelty in many member states. the european union and the member states are therefore invited to ratify the european convention for the protection of pet animals as soon as possible and to transpose its provisions into national law. the commission, in turn, is invited to propose eu legislation to ensure the protection of pet and stray animals, including: rules on the identification and registration of animals; strategies for the management of stray animals, including vaccination and sterilisation programmes; measures to encourage the responsibility of animal owners; the prohibition of illegal breeding and shelters; the prohibition of killing stray animals without health information; animal welfare information and education programmes in schools; and strict penalties for non-compliance by the member state.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it is necessary to establish legal regulation at european union level to ensure the full implementation of animal welfare requirements in ethical, social and economic terms. effective measures are necessary to prevent illegal activities related to the breeding, slaughter, killing or other cruel treatment of animals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the measures taken by the council to deal with the economic and financial crisis have so far been unsuccessful. the current economic and social crisis is the result of the european union's neoliberal policy of deregulation of financial markets, liberalisation of product and service markets and the enhancement of the role of financial markets in the economy, reduction of public investment and deregulation of labour relations. the excessive emphasis on austerity and the so-called market discipline introduced by the treaties have seriously damaged the democratic structures. the commission also notes that the bank of greece has not provided any information on the amount of the loan to the bank of greece. the continuing capital redistribution of wages has led to a marked increase in social and economic inequalities. this time, after more than 20 meetings of the governing council since the start of the crisis, there is a clear recognition that the crisis must be overcome by pursuing a policy mix that is geared to both fiscal consolidation and growth. in this respect, the summit was a key moment in the european council's policy shift towards addressing the challenges facing europe today, namely the transition to a more balanced, economically efficient and socially fairer anti-crisis agenda.
in writing. − while i support efforts to promote growth and jobs across the european union, in particular the provision to focus financial resources on investment, growth and jobs, i abstained in this document because i believe that much remains to be done to achieve a global, structural and comprehensive solution to the crisis. our citizens have been waiting for answers for a long time that we have not been able to provide.
in writing. - i think that in these difficult circumstances, time is not our ally. it is likely to be a ruthless adversary who can frustrate even the best of ideas and agreements if they are not implemented with the greatest of speed. the european council has had some good ideas and thoughts. but if decisions to implement them are slow, even the best ideas can be put in the archives of history. this requires real and urgent action to stimulate investment, economic growth and job creation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. member states must ensure that their citizens have access to basic payment services and that a basic payment account can be easily opened. access to payment services is one of the conditions for consumers to benefit from the internal market, in particular from freedom of movement, money transfers, the purchase of goods and services and e-commerce. i agree that the commission and the member states should ensure that consumers are very well informed about the availability of these services. i believe that the use of a basic payment account should be free of charge or at an affordable price, and i agree that member states should set a maximum ceiling for the total amount of annual fees associated with the opening and use of a basic payment account. it is necessary for the state to designate competent authorities to ensure effective compliance and to establish effective complaint procedures. i agree that anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing legislation should be applied proportionately and should not be used to exclude less commercially attractive consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because access to basic payment services is one of the conditions necessary for consumers to benefit from the internal market, in particular from the freedom of movement, the transfer of money and the purchase of goods and services at affordable bank charges. the main payment services are essential for consumers to benefit from e-commerce. the annual cost per consumer of not having access to a payment account is estimated at eur 185 to 365. access to basic payment services is therefore becoming an increasingly necessary condition for social inclusion, in particular in terms of the right to employment, healthcare and housing. the commission estimated that approximately 30 million adults in the european union currently do not have a bank account and that approximately 6,4 million of them were prevented from opening an account by their payment service providers or were afraid to ask for a bank account. consumers should be guaranteed the right to access payment services throughout the union and should benefit from the internal market in all its aspects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution with recommendations to the commission on access to basic banking services, as the smooth functioning of the internal market and the development of a modern, social market economy depend, inter alia, on the provision of affordable and easily accessible basic payment services for all and a socially responsible banking sector. self-regulatory measures have had positive or mixed results and do not currently guarantee access to core payment services in all member states. i believe that member states should avoid any potential charges for core payment services becoming a barrier to the access of consumers experiencing financial exclusion to core payment services. the commission is therefore invited to provide detailed information on the current state of play in all member states by september 2012 at the latest and to submit to parliament a proposal for a directive ensuring access to core payment services for all consumers legally resident in the eu by january 2013 at the latest, unless a detailed assessment shows that there is no need for such a proposal.
in writing. - i support this resolution. first of all, more attention should be paid to financial education. we cannot force everyone to have a payment account, but we can inform them of the possibilities and benefits of having one. it is necessary to ensure that all consumers, regardless of their financial situation, have access to a basic payment account. only in this way will consumers be able to participate properly in the market for core financial services and to purchase the most important goods and services. it is also essential that core banking services are accessible to everyone. i believe that legislation should be adopted at eu level to ensure that all eu consumers have access to basic payment services.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, the rapporteur, göran färm, for a very, very well done, very important job. and, of course, for the commission's response to the european parliament's calls for proposals for project bonds for the development of infrastructure in the european union. the europe 2020 strategy sets ambitious targets, but significant progress will not be achieved over the next decade with the current transport, energy or information technology infrastructure. solving today's problems, such as congestion, outdated energy systems, lack of transport and energy connections, and underdeveloped information technology infrastructure, will require huge investments that the public sector cannot allocate and will therefore have to rely on private sector investment, but the unfavourable economic situation in the european union and commercially unviable projects will not attract the funding that is lacking. although the amount of eur 230 million allocated in this pilot phase will be comparatively small, it is expected that this phase will provide greater guarantees and security for potential investors and will allow the functioning of the european union market to be assessed. this introduction of bonds is very welcome and should help to stimulate and encourage the development of infrastructure of major importance and added value for the whole of the european union, which is vital for particularly isolated regions and without which the internal market of the european union cannot and will not function effectively.
mr president, i have some concerns about the situation in and around georgia. three factors related to the upcoming parliamentary elections may destabilise georgia, even threatening a new bloody intervention from abroad. the first factor is the ongoing intervention of enormous amounts of russian money to get corrupted politicians and a sufficient number of poor people engaged in the task of moving georgia’s european politics back into a pro-russian stance. the efforts of the georgian parliament and government to prevent this totally fraudulent electoral campaign are being pre-empted by oligarchic and kremlin lobbyist propaganda, claiming alleged limitations of freedom. and indeed there are restrictions on the freedom to promote ongoing nazi- and fascist-type attacks against the current ‘non-ethnic georgian, non-orthodox, pro-minorities’, etc. government. strangely such hate texts are appreciated by blundering european liberals. let russian money win in georgia! that is the goal. the second factor is the excessively powerful military exercises, just beyond the georgian border, being postponed precisely for the time of the elections, maybe in the hope of any pre-planned street clashes. the third and most immediate danger is the current russian financial decline and emerging social crisis, which may lead the ruling group to try to turn people’s attention towards the external enemy by a renewed victorious caucasian war. what we need here is boldness.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i support the proposal to create the office of president of the court of justice, as the president's workload has increased considerably over time and i believe it would be appropriate to appoint a deputy to help him in his duties. i agree that the structure of the grand chamber should be changed to increase the number of judges to 15 in order to increase the capacity of the chamber. in order to enable the general court to deal with the problem of delays due to the increasing number of pending cases, which increased from 787 in 2000 to 1300 in 2010, it is necessary to increase the number of judges of the general court. i support the proposal to increase the number of judges to 12.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the court of justice of the european union has proposed a number of amendments to its statute which relate in one way or another to all three courts which currently constitute the court of justice of the european union: the court of justice, the general court and the civil service tribunal. the court considers it desirable to create the post of vice-president of the court of justice and to amend the rules relating to the composition of the grand chamber. the court of justice states that the workload of the president has increased considerably over time and that it would be appropriate to appoint a deputy who could replace him or assist him in the performance of his duties in the future. the proposals for changes in content also concern staff replacement and increase. the court of justice observes that the gap between the number of cases examined by the general court and the number of new cases has been widening for many years and that the number of cases pending before the court is constantly increasing. the increase in the number of judges will ensure the necessary efficiency, speed, flexibility and consistency of the court's case-law.
in writing. − the court of justice (cjeu) proposed a number of amendments to its statute and the adoption of a regulation on ad interim judges of the civil service tribunal. the proposed amendments relate in one way or another to all three courts which currently make up the eu's general court: the general court (cj), the civil service tribunal and the european court of justice. in addition to the changes in content, the two proposals concern staff replacement and increase, which require more resources and are therefore directly related to the eu budget. tt argues that the workload of the chairman has increased considerably over time and that it would be appropriate to appoint a deputy to replace him or to assist him in his duties in the future. the president of the court of justice has many duties, the performance of which is essential to the smooth functioning of the court. there have been cases where decisions on certain appeals against decisions of bt to impose provisional safeguard measures were taken more than a year later. the introduction of the post of vice-president should improve the situation in this area. tt also argues that for many years the gap between the number of cases examined by bt and the number of new cases has been widening, with a steady increase in the number of cases not examined. the court considers that the number of cases will continue to increase each year. in view of this, the court has, after careful deliberation, decided to propose an increase in the number of judges, since only in this way will the necessary efficiency, speed, flexibility and consistency of the tc practice be ensured. that is why i voted in favour of this document.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in view of the heavy workload of the presidents of the chambers, it is necessary to increase the number of judges in the grand chamber. in order to ensure greater consistency in the practice of the court, i am in favour of the introduction of a new post of vice-president, which would allow the vice-president to be present at the hearing of each case before the grand chamber and would assist the president in the performance of his duties. in view of the number of pending cases before the general court, it is necessary to implement the structural changes to that court as a matter of urgency. the number of judges should therefore be increased in order to increase the efficiency of the general court.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i agree that provision should be made for the possibility of supplementing the civil service tribunal with temporary judges. in order to avoid any disruption of the judicial functioning, it is essential to be able to replace a judge who is unable to attend a hearing for more than three months for medical reasons. i agree that ad interim judges should be able to exercise only strictly judicial functions and not participate in the administrative activities of the civil service tribunal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as, in order to ensure that the european union civil service tribunal does not find itself in a situation which prevents it from exercising its judicial functions, article 62c of the statute of the court of justice should be amended to provide for the appointment of ad interim judges to specialised courts. the court of justice has proposed a regulation to allow the appointment of ad interim judges to the european union civil service tribunal. the civil service tribunal shall consist of seven judges. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal against decisions of the general court. the main features of the proposal are as follows: the council of the european union, on a proposal from the president of the court of justice, draws up a list and adds to it three persons who may be appointed ad interim judges. the judges-advocates shall be chosen from among former members of the court of justice of the european union who are eligible to sit as judges of the civil service tribunal. the proposal is a rational solution to a practical problem which could seriously impede the work of the european civil service tribunal. the amendments proposed by the commission are of a purely technical nature and have already been submitted by the commission in its opinion.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal from the court of justice for a regulation allowing the appointment of ad interim judges to the european union civil service tribunal. the civil service tribunal shall consist of seven judges. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal proceedings before the general court. in order to ensure that the european union civil service tribunal does not find itself in a situation which prevents it from exercising its judicial functions, it is proposed to amend the statute of the court of justice and, in part, annex i to the statute, and to provide in general for the appointment of ad interim judges to specialised courts. in such circumstances, the president of the tribunal may have recourse to the services of an ad interim judge. these ad interim judges will exercise their judicial prerogatives only in the cases assigned to them. in other words, ad interim judges will be able to exercise only strictly judicial functions and will not be able to participate in the administrative activities of the tribunal or in the election of the president of the tribunal or the presidents of the chambers.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in order to ensure the systematic, continuous and operational functioning of the eu civil service tribunal, it is appropriate to provide for the possibility of appointing to that tribunal an ad interim judge from among former judges who could take up his duties immediately. this would be an appropriate and effective way of solving the present problem, ensuring that the tribunal does not find itself in a difficult situation which would create obstacles to the continuation of its task.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks. a modern and effective infrastructure is of key importance for achieving the objectives of europe 2020 strategy, i.e. smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as well as reduction of unemployment through the completion of the internal market. investment needs in the field of transport, energy and information and communication technologies (ict) infrastructure in europe are estimated at eur 1.5 trillion for 2010-2020. while the private sector should finance the main part of these - mostly profitable - investments, the public sector's role in europe will be crucial for achieving the above targets. at the present time of fiscal constraint, when the need to stimulate private financing of key infrastructure projects becomes urgent, it has been decided to launch a pilot phase of the europe 2020 project bond initiative already for the current mff (2012-2013). even though the pilot phase would be by definition limited in terms of scope, budget availability as well as projects supported, it is expected to provide a unique possibility to evaluate the operation of the current instrument before its possible implementation for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the establishment of a competitiveness and innovation framework programme. the pilot phase aims to test the market's favourable attitude and to evaluate the implementation of the new initiative. modern and efficient infrastructure is essential to achieve the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to reduce unemployment by completing the internal market. i agree that in order to increase the involvement of the private sector in the financing of infrastructure measures in the areas of transport, energy and ict and broadband, the implementation of the europe 2020 project bond initiative should be launched in a pilot phase in 2012-2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because modern and efficient infrastructure is essential to achieve the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy, completing the internal market and reducing unemployment. it is estimated that europe needs eur 1.5 trillion of investment in transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure between 2010 and 2020. the private sector should be the main source of these often profitable investments, and the public sector in europe would play a crucial role in achieving the above objectives. the european infrastructure networks facility (eitf) should therefore be included in the next financial framework in order to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and ict networks, with a particular focus on strategic cross-border aspects. the commission proposes to allocate eur 230 million from the eu budget as a pilot, which could be obtained by reallocating funds from existing programmes. while it is important to ensure adequate accountability and to draw sufficiently well-founded conclusions before the eitp is prepared, the main objective of this pilot phase is to test the market's favourable attitude towards this new initiative.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document, as modern and efficient infrastructure is essential to achieve the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy and to reduce unemployment by completing the internal market. to this end, the eu commission has proposed to include the european infrastructure networks facility (eitf) in the next financial framework to accelerate infrastructure development in the areas of transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) networks, with a particular focus on strategic cross-border aspects. the proposal, which amends the current eitp and ten rules, complements and updates the loan guarantee facility currently in place for ten transport projects. it has been updated to cover not only transport but also other sectors such as energy and ict projects, and at the same time extended to cover not only traffic but all risks that could lead to a lack of revenue during the project period. the european parliament has repeatedly urged the creation of this new instrument for investing in the future. the pilot project will be implemented in two phases: in view of the need to encourage private financing of major infrastructure projects, work on the pilot phase of the europe 2020 project bond initiative should be accelerated...
in writing. − i support this resolution as more efforts must be made to attract private sector investment in infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and ict and broadband. i believe that the use of the eu budget alone will not solve the existing problems in these areas. the achievement of this objective will ensure appropriate and sufficient financial support for the trans-european transport and energy networks. it is important to note that in all cases, it is essential to take into account the needs of energy efficiency, noise reduction at source, biodiversity and climate change in the financing of transport infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the objective of draft amending budget no 3/2012 is to include in the 2012 budget the surplus for the 2011 financial year of eur 1 496 968 014. the main components of this surplus are the unused expenditure of eur 0,73 billion, the higher than planned revenue of more than eur 0,67 billion and the positive exchange rate differentials of eur 0,1 billion. the main part of the revenue is derived from fines and interest on late payments. the unused expenditure appropriations are not due to difficulties in using the funds or to poor management, but to the rules in force on adjusting the distribution of payments to take account of needs, especially in the last weeks of the financial year. similarly, in its position on the request for carry-over dec 9/2012, the council significantly reduced the payment appropriations carried over to the research area, which reports the need for payments to meet previous commitments, and left the payment appropriations in budget lines under which they cannot be used. moreover, article 15 of the financial regulation provides that any discrepancy between the amounts calculated and those entered in the budget of the union is the sole subject of this amending budget. in view of the unmet needs presented in the request for a transfer dec 9/2012 and the latest data on budgetary execution, in particular in the area of cohesion policy, the following position on the said amending budget should be confirmed.
in writing. − i voted in favour as on 16 april the commission presented draft amending budget no 3/2012 on the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2011 budget, which proposed to include a surplus of eur 1.49 billion in the 2012 budget, the same amount reducing the total contribution of the member states, including lithuania, to the eu budget. the budget implementation result for 2011 is the sum of the results of the revenue, expenditure and exchange rate differences, which can be broken down as follows: an amount of eur 0,65 billion entered in the revenue part, mainly eur (0,45 billion) resulting from additional fines and interest for late payments received in 2011 and not entered when the 2011 budget was adopted, an amount of eur 0,73 billion not used in the expenditure part for expenditure, mainly due to the non-approval of the proposed adjustment of the 2011 wage bill, and an amount of eur 97 million in the area of exchange rate differences entered in draft amending budget 3/2012.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that the unused sum should be legitimately returned to the eu budget as a kind of carryover of unused appropriations. the overall contribution of the member states to the eu budget will be reduced accordingly, taking into account the 2011 budget surplus. this redistribution is also very important and useful, as there may be a lack of funds for research and other eu interventions this year. this amending budget will thus help to ensure adequate financing of the seventh framework programme for cooperation in the light of unmet needs and will also provide for additional payment appropriations for cohesion policy.
in writing. − having voted in favour, as the eu reiterated its support for a two-state solution, with the state of israel, with secure and recognised borders, peacefully and securely coexisting with an independent, democratic and viable state of palestine, and stated that it would not recognise any changes to the pre-1967 borders, including jerusalem as the capital of both states, other than those agreed by the parties. the right of the palestinian people to self-determination and to a state is unquestionable, as is the right of israel to secure borders. the eu, as well as the countries themselves and the wider region, have a key interest in bringing an end to the conflict, which can be achieved through a comprehensive peace agreement based on the relevant un security council resolutions, the madrid principles, including the 'territory for peace' principle, the action plan, the parties' previous agreements and the arab peace initiative. any decision reached should not be in any way detrimental to the dignity of either party. the eu and its member states must play a more active political role, including through their participation in the quartet, in their efforts to achieve a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as peaceful and non-violent means are the only way to achieve a lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict and to end the political tensions. more progress must be made in the middle east peace process. in particular, the israeli authorities should end the detention of palestinians and ensure that they are given a fair trial. it is also essential that hamas finally recognises the state of israel and ends its violence inside and outside israel.
in writing. – freedom of media and freedom of expression are among the main pillars of democracy. i deeply regret that these freedoms are limited in belarus by the legislation and in practice. the case of andrzej poczobut illustrates how authoritarian government of belarus transforms fundamental human rights into an instrument of domestic political pressure and a tool of international influence. i reiterate that international and belarusian activists and journalists, as well as ordinary belarusian citizens, become victims of belarusian controlled judiciary system and do not have right to fair trial. the european parliament calls belarusian authorities to respect their international commitments, to respect human rights and democratic principles. the repressions against civil society and political opposition have to be stopped. free and fair parliamentary elections this autumn could be the good opportunity for the belarusian government to show its good will to move towards the eu standards.
for the efd group roland pax is not here today, so i'll speak for him. the speaker before me just mentioned a very large number of four billion spent on energy in the european union. it's a lot of money. if the european union fails in energy efficiency, it will fail in climate change, energy security, social protection. we must therefore improve our energy security and efficiency, and control our energy costs, otherwise unit prices will continue to rise. the key policy and concrete measures must be to achieve an absolute reduction in energy consumption, which will reduce the energy costs of all consumers. especially during the economic crisis, rising energy prices have had a negative impact on low-income households. in lithuania, the price of district heating has become an unbearable burden for the population. it is necessary to reduce the bureaucratic burden in all member states. i'm not talking about renovating buildings. consumer organisations should also have a greater role in the development of a national strategy to protect consumers from unjustified price increases. similarly, all information related to energy price increases should be made public and available to the public. finally, perhaps we should review the percentage of eu funding for the development of advanced energy facilities, which is not 50 percent, but more, i mean cogeneration.
member of the commission. - our european energy community is an offer to the countries of the former yugoslavia, to all the countries of the western balkans. you're a member there. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe. this means that the largest country in the western balkans leads the energy community. there we are making good progress in bringing the european internal energy market beyond the eu-27 to neighbouring countries, to the benefit of all citizens inside and outside the european union. we are only supporting from the european budget infrastructure which benefits more than one member state. why would you do that? the basic idea of subsidiarity is that where a distribution network a smart grid serves the local citizen but only in one member state, this is a matter for the member state and the regional market. what we do is standardize. together with our partners in the european energy and electricity industries, we are in the process of achieving uniform european standards for smart grids and smart meters. this is in the interests of the internal market and in the interests of consumers, with higher volumes and a possible reduction in costs. our budget has not yet provided for funding for distribution networks in the region.
member of the commission. - i am not aware of any such agreement. but even if it did, it wouldn't be relevant. the european internal market law in the field of energy is governed by european rules and not by bilateral agreements between a member state and a third country. i mean, i can't confirm your guess, but even if i could, it wouldn't be relevant to me. in the field of gas pipelines, we always determine where the entry point to the european market is. nord stream, for example. when does the single market come into force? and the access to the sub-markets of europe will then be subject to the european internal market law you decide. there may be exceptions, but as a general rule, there is third party access: access to any pipeline for anyone, and there is unbundling, i.e. the independence of the gas network operator from gas producers and gas users so that they play a high, objective part in this energy business.
member of the commission. - i have no intention of denying it to parliament. of course, the russian partners have different interests than we do. you understand our internal market rules very well. they don't really accept it. the russian partners have a different culture than us. in all our discussions with our russian partners, we attach great importance to the full application of our internal market rules. you can expect the commission to respect the law applicable to any third country - whether russia, norway or algeria - and to insist that the third country does so.
member of the commission. − nord stream is a two-pipeline project, the second of which will be inaugurated in a few weeks. then up to 55 billion cubic metres of gas from russian sources will come to europe via nord stream, which is about 10% of our total eu gas consumption per year. from greifswald-lubmin, a german town on the baltic sea where the nord stream pipeline ends, supply lines go to the central european markets. they are subject to internal market law. we're in sensitive negotiations with our russian partners about the extent of third-party access. the key is that gas from anywhere benefits every european citizen. this means that we need a functioning, reverse flow, intra-european gas network with the ability to transport from each sub-market to each other. the north-south link from the baltic sea to croatia, for example, a project which we are currently planning, is an important contribution to this. interconnectors between member states are a second contribution. the combination of internal market rules and infrastructure means that in the medium term we will also have equal rights for consumers and comparable gas prices throughout europe, and there will be no great disparity in gas prices between lithuania/latvia on the one hand and france/germany on the other.
member of the commission. - these pipelines are in the european interest. that's why we support them. whether financial support is needed depends on two factors. firstly, what are the costs and are they reasonable for the gas consumer? can they be financed on the market by transport charges or does the european union need to co-finance them? secondly, it is possible if parliament adopts the seven-year financial framework in the coming weeks and supports the connecting europe facility in the energy sector with 9 billion euros. i am then able to act and willing to talk to the respective energy ministers and the transmission system operators of entso-g.
member of the commission. - the energy customer, in the case of the electricity customer, is satisfied if, firstly, there are no or very few power cuts. it can be said that in europe the issue of power cuts is far less important and that stability, security of supply, is far more likely to be maintained than, for example, in many countries in asia or even in the united states. we have more security of electricity than the americans in detroit or los angeles. secondly, the customer is satisfied if the price is reasonable. we have evidence that, thanks to the opening up of the market, competition and the rules of the internal market, prices have risen less in recent years than if there were monopolies where the consumer could not change his supplier. transparency, i.e. knowledge of electricity suppliers and their prices and contractual conditions, is one of these. thirdly, many citizens - not all - are also interested in other issues such as environmental protection, sustainability and climate change, as electricity consumers. we are also working towards this, and we believe that the internal market and our european energy and climate policy have therefore helped the consumer and that further improvement will help him further.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i wanted to complete my colleague günther oettinger's answer very briefly because, thinking of electricity users and, in particular, citizens and families, obviously from the point of view of my responsibilities as commissioner for competition, i have instructed my services to monitor very closely and continuously the situation on the electricity market and other energy sources. if you recall, ladies and gentlemen, there was a sector survey a few years ago, when neelie kroes was the commissioner for competition, and since then a whole series of actions have been carried out in the light of what we analysed as a result of that survey. in the french case in particular, there have been decisions which contribute to a better functioning of the market, although the concentration of that market is obvious, with an extraordinarily powerful main operator, and i can tell the honourable member that at the moment we are following in particular some of the actions of that operator on the market. i cannot reveal which ones, or how far our investigations have gone, but rest assured that we do not forget the users and, in particular, the citizens who use electricity, neither in the former member states, in respect of which the commission has already adopted competition decisions in relation to some of its most important operators, following that sectoral survey, nor lately in the member states which acceded to the union in 2004 and 2007, in which we have also opened investigations and are working on several cases.
the commission's vice-president − it is true that several authorities are responsible for ensuring that european standards to regulate both the electricity sector and competition are applied as we have intended, so as to have a positive effect on the market. the french energy authority, of course, and the french competition authority, exercise these responsibilities on the french market. the commission, through my colleague mr oettinger in particular, is responsible for enforcing the directive. for example, several procedures were initiated when it became apparent to the commission that the directive - in particular the third package - was not being applied by the member states. wherever necessary, investigations will be opened and decisions taken on the basis of articles 101 and 102 of the treaty on competition, whenever it is considered that the rules of the treaty are not being applied or that operators are not applying them in this market. how do we work in the competition sector? we sometimes open investigations on our own initiative. we receive a number of extremely useful information from users - citizens or businesses. therefore, if you have information which you believe should be known by the competition authorities, the dg competition or myself, because it may lead to the initiation of proceedings in the area for which i am responsible, i would be grateful if you would share it with me.
today, we have just recently been informed by the honourable commissioner almunia that the timeliness and accuracy of the data or information is of the utmost importance. our main objective is the implementation of the third energy package. however, tomorrow we will vote for another document, called 'the mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental energy agreements between member states and third countries', which leaves the member states and companies free to provide information on mutual agreements. my question is: will not the implementation of the third energy package be weakened by this option and will not the internal market within the european union be distorted on this basis?
member of the commission. − we believe that the external energy policy to be discussed tomorrow will not have a negative impact on the development of the internal market. we believe that we need a common european strategy on third countries, particularly supplier countries, and that is why we attach importance to the disclosure of state contracts, i.e. contracts between third countries and member states. what we do not want, and do not demand, is the disclosure of specific private contracts - prices, quantities, conditions - unless they are contrary to internal market law. but then and only then are examinations necessary, as mr almunia pointed out half an hour ago. but we do not think that general disclosure of private sector contracts is appropriate.
thank you very much for your answer. my next question is: our main objective is to reduce our dependence on third countries, and this depends on the energy balance. what is your view today on the development of nuclear energy, so that this type of energy could be the most rapid and efficient way of addressing the question of the positive side of the energy balance in relation to third countries, especially russia?
in the european union, we all recognise that energy efficiency contributes to combating climate change and preserving the environment. however, it is important that this area brings clear benefits to the economy. in order to achieve a high energy efficiency class for our buildings, new jobs are created and orders in the construction sector increase and, most importantly, the savings from less energy consumption can be transferred to other sectors. the text proposed by the commission was rather ambitious, particularly in terms of the mandatory energy saving targets. i understand that the situation is different in different countries and that flexibility may be needed by the member states, as proposed by the european parliament. however, the so-called compromise now reached with the states to make these targets indicative only shows that the member states lack the political will or for other reasons are not willing to adopt joint agreements. this is particularly true of the large countries of the european union. and often member states need a push to meet certain targets - this could be the setting of mandatory energy savings targets. unfortunately, we're stuck in the middle of nowhere.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the allocation of support from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this aid will be granted to 550 workers who lost their jobs at the odessa steelworks in denmark. the number of employees in the european shipbuilding sector has decreased by 23% over the last three years. the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in the wake of the global and economic crisis. i therefore support the proposal to allocate an amount of eur 6,455 million from the egf reserve to support redundant workers in the danish shipbuilding sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in accordance with the danish application egf/2011/008 dk/odense steel shipyard. in accordance with article 6 of the regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), the egf should support the reintegration into the labour market of individual workers made redundant. in addition, only active labour market measures that ensure long-term employment can be co-financed by the egf. the egf shall not replace actions for which undertakings are responsible, as defined by national law or collective agreements, or measures for the restructuring of undertakings or sectors. as the industrial structure of the local economy is characterised by a high number of jobs in the manufacturing industry, particularly in the metallurgical sector. many jobs in this sector have already been lost or moved to other countries where wages are lower. the dismissed shipyard workers have a wealth of technical knowledge that is difficult to apply in other industries in funen or even in denmark as a whole. most of them had worked in the shipyards all their lives, as had perhaps their parents. i therefore also welcomed the decision of the danish authorities to apply measures to provide emergency assistance to workers before the final decision to grant egf support under the proposed harmonised package.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the allocation of support from the european globalisation adjustment fund. this aid will benefit 836 unemployed workers in the aragon region of spain. the demand for construction in spain is declining: in 2009 the country issued 75.6% fewer building permits than in 2007 and in 2010 even 82.8% less than in the same period in 2007. the purpose of this fund is to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in the wake of the global and economic crisis. i therefore support the proposal to allocate an amount of eur 1,3 million from the egf reserve to support redundant workers in the spanish construction sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application from spain egf/2011/017 eu/aragón, construction. in the economic recovery plan, the commission has already recognised that the crisis has led to a significant drop in demand in the eu construction industry. according to available data, the construction sector has experienced a sharp decline, which in the 27 eu member states has continued for eight consecutive quarters since the beginning of 2009 compared to the same period of the previous year, mainly due to a decline in private investment in the housing sector. in 2009, the spanish construction sector showed the same negative trends as those seen in the eu-27 average. however, the situation in the spanish construction sector continued to deteriorate in 2010 and during the first half of 2011. due to the low population density in a large part of the area concerned by this application and the risk of population decline, the redundancies have a very significant negative impact on this region and may undermine efforts to encourage the population to remain in this region. in addition, the european globalisation adjustment fund has already been used in five cases of redundancies in the construction sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this energy efficiency proposal. the eu spends around €400 billion a year on energy imports. it is therefore necessary to take all measures that can promote efficient and sustainable energy consumption and contribute to energy security and to reducing energy dependence on third countries. i support the mandatory targets set out in this directive at eu and national level to achieve a 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, which will not only improve the union's energy security but also contribute to the eu's economic recovery. i support the creation of energy saving schemes in the member states to reduce energy consumption and the obligation for public organisations to purchase energy-efficient buildings. the provisions on the deployment of smart meters in this directive will help to better protect eu consumers from unjustified increases in energy prices and increase consumer awareness of real energy consumption and energy prices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the main objective of eu environmental policy is to reduce emissions of dangerous and harmful gases and other pollutants. the best way to do this is to promote energy efficiency. energy efficiency can help to reduce the costs of efficient products and services and increase business opportunities in the related industrial sectors. the 2007 heads of state decision set a target of 20% energy efficiency improvements and is a key element of the roadmap to a low-carbon economy by 2050. in order to achieve this objective, member states should draw up national action plans that are robust and specific, and the commission must have the right to assess and amend them. a european methodology based on a model allowing the assessment of the different situations of the member states should also be established. a correction factor related to the economic situation of the country should also be applied, in order to avoid that the model becomes difficult to implement for some countries and insufficiently robust for others. it is worth noting that the pursuit of energy efficiency is inseparable not only from the regulation of the activities of each citizen and smes, but also from the provision of incentives, such as support for the establishment of an energy saving system. however, in order to avoid national incentives being considered unlawful state aid, they need to be clearly defined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants associated with fossil fuels. energy efficiency also helps to reduce dependence on energy imports, for which the eu now pays more than €400 billion a year. investing in energy efficiency will reduce the eu's dependence on russia and the opec countries and thus enable it to invest more in european industry. energy efficiency one of the key objectives to be achieved by 2020. it is important for our long-term energy and climate goals, and it is also the most cost-effective way to reduce emissions, increase energy security and competitiveness, and reduce energy costs. energy challenges are one of the biggest challenges facing europe today. rising energy prices and increasing dependence on energy imports not only have a negative impact on consumers, but also threaten our security and competitiveness. important decisions need to be taken immediately to reduce energy costs and emissions significantly and to mitigate climate change.
in writing. − the energy efficiency report is one of the most important pieces of work in this parliament's term. it is a very important piece of legislation for eu citizens and businesses, helping to fight the economic crisis and unemployment. the eu has no direct means of reducing global oil and gas prices, but it can help reduce energy consumption. this directive will also create 2 million jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in the construction sector. this is also true for young people. in addition to saving money, energy efficiency also helps the environment by reducing emissions. i voted in favour of this report because it is of particular importance to eu citizens in difficult times. the increase in energy prices is particularly damaging to the eu countries, which are still in a difficult economic situation, and to the weakest sections of society. it is important that this directive is not understood as a mere document promoting energy efficiency. saving energy is also important in everyday life.
in writing. − human rights violations cannot be tolerated or justified. the countries which have seriously considered this issue are therefore to be welcomed, and the european parliament's close attention to it is to be welcomed. the facts and rumours of the actual or potential transfers and unlawful detentions of suspects undermine the credibility of counter-terrorism efforts by member states. it is important that the interpretation of the truth be based on facts rather than assumptions. i believe that at any time, as new facts come to light, even those investigations that are currently closed would be updated. at some point, however, this question should be answered in its entirety and a full stop should be made.
in writing. − the european parliament expresses its opinion in this report on certain allegations based on evidence: the alleged illegal cia flights in nine eu countries and the detention without trial of guantanamo detainees accused of terrorism. the socialist rapporteur, h. flautre, argues that in the preparation of the report some eu states have obstructed the free and independent investigations of the delegation of meps seeking to ensure justice for the victims. it claims that the state covers up its crimes by using the obligation to maintain state secrets as a pretext. breaches of eu law should not be used as a justification for fighting terrorism. the european union is considered the world's greatest defender of human rights. i agree with the rapporteurs that eu countries must not only investigate to the end but also allow for independent additional investigations by eu institutions. it is important that the persons responsible for the compensation paid for the damage suffered are identified. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for improved judicial cooperation in criminal matters between eu countries and for the european commission to ensure that this cooperation is implemented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which sets out proposals to increase member states' solidarity on asylum and to improve the eu's asylum policy. one of the eu's main priorities in establishing the common european asylum system (ceas) is to provide assistance to member states facing a high number of asylum seekers. in 2011, the eu received more than 300 000 asylum applications, an increase of 16.2% on 2010. i agree with the need to support those member states whose asylum systems are very burdened with asylum seekers or asylum-seekers by means of relocation from a member state with a particular burden to another member state. i agree with the need to inform member states and civil society about eu funds for asylum policy and to provide information on eligibility criteria and application formalities. it is important to assess member states' asylum systems regularly and frequently in order to correct their shortcomings, and it is important that the european asylum support office provide practical assistance to member states in this regard.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union is committed to completing the single european asylum system (seas) this year, establishing a common area of protection and solidarity. the beps is based on three pillars and now it is time to take on one of them, namely the idea of solidarity and shared responsibility. this solidarity mechanism aims to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are fully respected and to help member states improve their asylum systems, thus ensuring the proper functioning of the beps and the proper implementation of the asylum acquis. the effectiveness of the beps requires that member states, institutions and citizens are properly informed about the availability of eu funds that can be used for asylum purposes, and information on eligibility criteria and legal formalities is also essential. in order to identify best practices and gaps and to facilitate the development of specific solutions, regular assessments of eu member states' asylum systems could be carried out. the solidarity and responsibility-sharing of member states is also of great value, in particular with regard to the relocation of beneficiaries of international protection and the processing of asylum applications. it is essential to make the best use of the funds available to the eu, as this is the only way to turn solidarity into action, and therefore to introduce financial incentives for relocating beneficiaries of international protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the creation of a european standardisation system. standardization is of particular importance for the creation of the single internal market and for ensuring the competitiveness of businesses, both in the eu and in individual member states, by removing barriers to trade and ensuring adequate health protection and safe products reach the market. it is necessary to address the shortcomings that currently hinder the safety of products and create different levels of consumer protection in different member states. the establishment of uniform standards at european level is of crucial importance in the field of rapidly developing technologies and innovation. i support the proposals to encourage the involvement of smes and member states' public authorities in the standard-setting process. standards need to be understandable and easy to use. i agree with the need to achieve consistency in standards in the services sector, where they are still very lacking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the adjustment of the european standardisation system will seek to preserve its various existing strengths, to correct its shortcomings and to strike a balance between the european, national and international levels. given the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) for the european economy, it is necessary to enhance the full participation of smes in standardisation activities and to facilitate their access to standards that should be understandable and easy to use. i believe it is essential that european standards are developed within a reasonable timeframe, especially in those areas where standards are urgently needed to meet the requirements of public policy and rapidly changing market conditions. member states should therefore send their representatives to all the national technical committees, since standardisation is an important tool of eu legislation and public policy and can only ensure the proper functioning of legislation in the areas covered by the new approach. for example, the service sector is economically important and has many opportunities, but standards are still lacking in this area. their creation would stimulate the process of harmonisation in the services sector, increase the competitiveness, quality and transparency of european services, and promote consumer protection and innovation.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. european standardisation has the advantage of helping to increase the competitiveness of enterprises, in particular by facilitating the free movement of goods and services, the interaction of networks, means of communication, technological development and innovation. european standardisation also strengthens the competitiveness of european industry on a global scale. standards have a significant positive economic impact, for example by promoting economic penetration in the internal market and the development of new and improved products or markets and improved supply conditions. standards therefore generally increase competition and reduce production and marketing costs - this benefits the economy in general and consumers in particular. standards can maintain and improve quality, provide information and ensure interoperability and compatibility, thereby increasing the benefits for consumers and enhancing safety.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the electronic identification system for bovine animals aims to improve the traceability of bovine animals. electronic identification will help to ensure greater food safety in the eu and strengthen the control of the spread of animal diseases. the electronic scanning will not only provide opportunities to ensure maximum safety and hygiene of beef products and to control outbreaks of infectious diseases, but also to promote the competitiveness of the sector. i agree that electronic identification should remain a voluntary measure, but it is necessary that the expanding market for electronic identifiers should bring down their price and that this method should become a common method of identification of bovine animals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because european citizens are concerned about food safety and european legislation must ensure that consumers have adequate protection of beef. it is therefore necessary to develop the market for electronic cattle identifiers, as this will provide more reliable data and a strengthened traceability system. this would help ensure food safety, speed up the registration of bovine animals and automate certain tasks. the labelling of beef is a very high administrative burden and should therefore be simplified and the provisions relating to voluntary labelling should be abolished.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because it is necessary to ensure the clarity and applicability of legislation on the identification and tracing of bovine animals and to achieve an appropriate level of food safety. food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens. electronic identification of bovine animals provides more reliable data and thus strengthens the traceability system and thus food safety. it also allows for faster registration of bovine animals, automation of certain tasks and more efficient herd management. it would also be useful to encourage the development of this new technology. it is necessary to adapt the existing legislation, in particular in order to recognise electronic identification as an official means of identification of bovine animals. it is also essential to ensure harmonisation of technical requirements in order to avoid the uncontrolled development of this means of identification and the incompatibility of national systems. however, given the wide variety of bovine farming methods, electronic identification should be a voluntary choice for bovine farmers, unless the member states concerned have made it mandatory in their territories. the cattle farmers are encouraged to opt for this technology, but it is not compulsory.
in writing. − as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i agreed that the main criterion for food supplied to consumers should be high standards of quality and safety. the document, which aims to further enhance the safety of beef supplied to consumers, is therefore welcome. the advantage of the electronic identification system for bovine animals is the ability to trace and obtain reliable data on the food reaching the consumer. the document also states that this system would help the management of the farm and should therefore be aligned with those already in place in the member states. this is another step towards achieving food safety standards for eu consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which aims to adopt new measures to help strengthen pharmacovigilance across the eu and to ensure greater safety of medicines across the eu. the aim of pharmacovigilance is to identify and assess the side effects of medicines in order to prevent the entry of inappropriate medicines onto the market. the need to ensure the safety of medicines arose following a study in france in 2011 on the french-made mediator, which is thought to have caused between 500 and 2,000 deaths across the eu. i therefore support strengthening the safety of medicinal products, in particular the obligation to make public the list of medicinal products for which marketing authorisation has been refused, the authorisation revoked or suspended and the supply of which has been prohibited or which have been withdrawn from the market, and the other patient protection measures provided for in the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to ensure better safety of medicines at eu level. this is why we need to increase the commitment of the european medicines agency to collect and act on signals detection data without delay, and to strengthen cooperation between eu member states. further amendments to the directive are necessary to ensure that the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee can cope with the current workload and that patients and healthcare professionals can fully contribute to the improvement of the pharmacovigilance system. first, there must be a clear indication of the reason for the withdrawal of the marketing authorisation or the refusal to grant a new application for a marketing authorisation. the list of medicinal products for which marketing authorisation has been refused and the reasons for such refusal shall also be made public each year. second, the marketing authorisation holder must report if it has taken action in a third country, as it would be useful for regulators to know about the company's withdrawal, non-renewal or other suspension of the marketing authorisation in a third country. third, in order to help the consumer understand the benefits of the medicinal product and the potential risks, the product data tables should be established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/83/ec on pharmacovigilance. i agreed as this amendment further strengthens the pharmacovigilance system at eu level. the five additional proposed amendments clarify the wording, ensure that the workload of the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee is overcome and that patients and healthcare professionals fully contribute to the improvement of the pharmacovigilance system. strengthening cooperation between member states will improve the safety of medicines at eu level and also avoid undesirable consequences, as in the case of mediator.
in writing. − patient safety and adequate information on medicines used, as well as the safety of medicines themselves, are one of the main objectives of eu public health policy. experience shows that the misuse by pharmaceutical manufacturers of the marketing and withdrawal of medicinal products that are harmful to human health can result in human deaths. on the other hand, the information sheets provided to consumers must be clear and understandable. i therefore welcome the introduction of stricter requirements and administrative procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the grounds of pharmacovigilance. the aim of pharmacovigilance is to identify and assess the side effects of medicines in order to prevent the entry of inappropriate medicines onto the market. the evaluation system for medicinal products needs to be improved in order to protect public health. i agree with the stricter provisions in the directive on transparency requirements for pharmaceutical companies, with a longer period of additional monitoring of medicinal products to ensure that only safe medicinal products that are not harmful to public health are placed on the market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to ensure better safety of medicines at eu level, and therefore the commitment of the european medicines agency to collect and act promptly on the detection of signals and to strengthen cooperation between eu member states. further changes are necessary to ensure that the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee can cope with the current workload and that patients and healthcare professionals can fully contribute to the improvement of the pharmacovigilance system. first, if medicines are subject to post-authorisation safety testing or other conditions or requirements, they must be included in the black-mark list of medicines subject to additional monitoring. secondly, the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee will not be established until july 2012 and the calculation of the deadline for the selection of the black symbol should therefore start from that date. thirdly, the urgency procedure should be applied automatically. fourth, the urgency procedure should be used where undertakings decide not to apply for the renewal of a marketing authorisation for security reasons. fifth, in order to ensure the full implementation of the new provisions relating to pharmacovigilance, the european medicines agency should be empowered to levy fees on marketing authorisation holders for the performance of pharmacovigilance tasks.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this amendment further strengthens the pharmacovigilance system at eu level. the proposal clarifies the wording, ensures that the workload of the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee is overcome and that patients and healthcare professionals fully contribute to the improvement of the pharmacovigilance system.
in writing. - i voted against this motion. although negotiations on this issue have been ongoing since 2010, no agreement on the application of the deferral of this requirement has been reached. from 2015, the eu will require that ships calling at eu ports use fuels containing no more than 0.1% sulphur. such rules are limited to ports in the north sea and the baltic sea, and ships worldwide are allowed to use fuel containing 4,5% sulphur. such stricter fuel quality requirements will make it more difficult for shipping companies to comply with the requirements, as this will increase the cost of fuel and also transport costs. this could lead to a significant reduction in the number of goods transported by sea and an increase in the number of goods transported by road across northern and eastern europe. unequal standards of marine fuels in the baltic and north sea countries may create unequal competition not only with other eu regions but also with non-eu countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in view of the figures indicating an early mortality of people from marine air pollutants in europe, it is necessary to implement the provisions on the maximum sulphur content in marine litter. this is a very important reform of the current ep term in relation to health. it is essential to implement and monitor the clarification and standardisation of eu limit values agreed in the international maritime organisation and to create a level playing field, facilitate the transition and encourage innovation. stricter sulphur limit values would increase the health and environmental benefits of implementing the 0,1% limit value beyond the existing eu sox control areas. it is important to extend the application of the 0,1% threshold to passenger ships operating on a regular basis. significant health and environmental benefits could also be obtained if the limit value applied in eu ports were also applied in territorial waters.
in writing. − a more restrained vote, as the competitiveness of shipping may be reduced and not all shipowners may be financially able to implement the envisaged measures. vessel owners and equipment suppliers have different opinions on the availability and reliability of scrubbers. in addition, there were doubts as to whether the new deadline would be postponed again. this would further undermine investment in this technology. the parties considering the use of lng are in a 'chicken and egg' situation: shipowners are reluctant to adapt their vessels to lng unless they are assured that sufficient ports will be able to supply gas, and ports are reluctant to invest because of uncertainties about demand. despite all these doubts, i agree that it is necessary to find ways of reducing emissions from ships in many member states, because only in this way can we contribute to improving air quality.
in writing. - i did. the text is the result of lengthy negotiations, but the compromise reached does not address the main concerns. i believe that the health and environmental standards for eu citizens should be as uniform as possible across the eu. furthermore, it is not entirely clear whether the different burden of economic decision-making will not create the conditions for different conditions of competition and distortions of the single market. with this decision, we are dividing the eu's citizens and seas into two parts - one more concerned with health and the environment, the other less. the commission's report and assessment of whether such differentiation will reduce the effectiveness of the fight against pollution from maritime transport, will not lead to a greater degree of change of modes of transport and will not distort competition in the european union market, are still to be seen. on the other hand, i hope that this decision will encourage more attention and investment in environmentally friendly innovation. i believe that the north-baltic region has all the prerequisites to become a leader in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it would be necessary to avoid an early adoption of a final decision on the transfer of wine resources to the single payment scheme. the five-year measure could be replaced by a one-year measure, applicable only in 2014, and a one-off transfer could be made from 2015. it should be noted that eu member states may also decide whether they wish to include wine-growing areas in the regions eligible for direct payments from 2015. the measures, which will last for one year, will ensure the continuity of the decisions taken up to 2013. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 as regards the single payment scheme and support for vine growers. i agree that entitlement to payments under the single payment scheme should be granted for an unlimited period and that the allocation of funds under the single payment scheme should be known in advance simply to ensure a predictable situation for farmers. more importantly, the amendment should be seen in the light of the new cap proposal on direct payments (article 25), which provides for the possibility for wine growers to be eligible for the area payment for wine-growing areas at the same time as before, by allowing access to the instruments of the wine sector programmes, and on the other hand, excludes funds transferred from the financial packages for the wine sector, which are reserved for wine growers. this is to ensure convergence in the value of all payment entitlements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on the legal basis for the internal market information system (imis) and on the extension of the scope of this system. this electronic information exchange system enables national, regional and local authorities to exchange information quickly and easily with the relevant bodies in other countries. the system reduces administrative burdens and helps member states to cooperate as efficiently and effectively as possible. the eqf currently serves to implement the provisions of the professional qualifications directive and the services directive on administrative cooperation, but it is important that its use be extended to cover more areas of legislation in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the internal market information system (imis) is a fast and secure tool for cross-border information exchange and administrative cooperation, the benefits of which are evidenced by statistics. it is currently used by more than 6 000 registered institutions in all eu member states and eea countries. in august 2011, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation establishing a single legal framework and rules for the imi to ensure its effective functioning. in general, the nis is described as a flexible tool that will be widely applicable, and the new system in a consolidated form will contribute to better data protection and will allow the authorities concerned to communicate more quickly and cover more policy areas. it is also essential to consider the time limit already adopted for the storage of personal data and whether the new proposed time limit is compatible with national data security legislation. other aspects of the imi are equally important, such as access to the system by external entities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because it aims to establish a single legal basis and rules for the internal market information system (imi), which is precisely the way to ensure its proper functioning. the further development and application of the etias in other areas of eu law should be facilitated and clear rules should be established for its functioning and data protection in its handling. this should complete the internal market, the smooth crossborder exchange of information between the authorities of the different member states, which is of the utmost importance. the fact that the iac is a reliable and effective tool in the two areas of implementation of the professional qualifications directive and the services directive in which it is already used has been recognised in the past and the current amendment will allow for greater use to be made of the iac's potential. this is certainly beneficial for citizens and the internal market. the imi is a flexible tool that can be adapted to the specific requirements of different legal fields and the use of the new consolidated format will not only allow for better data protection but also allow for faster communication between competent authorities or cover more policy areas. it will also enable local authorities to cooperate more closely and to become more involved in the single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments between associated companies in different member states. in order to eliminate double taxation of companies, which makes administrative formalities more difficult, it is necessary to establish a uniform treatment for cross-border and national payments of interest and royalties. in order to preserve the good functioning of the eu internal market, it is necessary to further reduce the opportunities for unintended tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud in the member states. i support the proposal to set a minimum rate of corporation tax which would reduce tax competition and thus increase the freedom of member states to tax companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to consider all the perspectives in the light of solutions that would help to revitalise europe from the impact of the financial, economic and social crisis, in order to avoid similar crises in the future. on the other hand, it is also essential to review current policies and commitments to see if they are still fit for purpose to meet the challenges of the future. the estimates provided show that the amount of revenue lost to eu governments is negatively affected by this, as it increases deficits and debt. as cooperation between the tax systems of the member states is becoming increasingly desirable, it is necessary to adapt the directive (parent and subsidiary directive, adopted in september 2011) in order to avoid possible fraud related to tax avoidance and to reduce unforeseen tax avoidance or double taxation. all of this is seriously damaging to the good functioning of the eu internal market and it is necessary to take concrete action to prevent this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because tax evasion and avoidance costs the european union governments a large amount of revenue lost. the loss of revenue increases deficits and debt in various member states. cooperation between the tax systems of the member states is therefore increasingly desirable in order to further reduce the potential for unintended tax avoidance, double taxation or tax evasion fraud in the member states, which further undermine the good functioning of the eu internal market. it is necessary to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the proposal aims to prevent the possibility of concealing, changing or unlawfully exempting taxes. it is also important to take the necessary measures to ensure that member states are not prevented from combating tax fraud, tax evasion or abuse.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the commission's 2013 work programme. the commission should use its powers to take action to overcome the consequences of the economic crisis, to achieve financial stability, economic recovery and a more competitive eu. i support the proposals set out in the report on the establishment of a banking union, greater powers and accountability for the european central bank in overseeing the eu banking sector, a more comprehensive agenda for economic growth and changes to eu tax law to combat tax evasion. other important priorities in the commission's work programme are the urgent adoption of the multiannual financial framework, the implementation of the reform of the own resources system and the improvement of the governance of the single market. the commission should also focus more on the implementation of the european resource efficiency action plan and the creation of a fully integrated and interconnected single energy market. the coordination of the cap and the europe 2020 strategy to promote innovation in farming and the provision of a wide-ranging reform of the common fisheries policy are also important.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is the european parliament's annual expression of its position on the commission's proposed work programme. this year's debate on the european parliament's evaluation was particularly important, as the decisions taken by the eu institutions together will now have a decisive impact on the future of the european union. the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats (s&d) has called on the commission to devote particular attention to job creation, to a more active implementation of the citizens' agenda in the areas of justice and home affairs and to the union's foreign policy next year. of course, one of the key and overarching priorities of the european parliament at the moment is the management of financial and economic policy in order to recover from the impact of the crisis in europe.
in writing. − the prolonged euro area crisis continues to threaten all the member states of the european union. the european union is also facing a deep competitive crisis, as most other regions of the world are growing faster than they are in terms of productivity and innovation, and the european union will lag behind if decisive action is not taken. the commission should therefore focus its energy and resources on supporting member states to overcome the crisis effectively and quickly, while reducing red tape and centralisation. i therefore believe that the 2013 work programme for the last full year of the current commission's mandate should give priority to more targeted and concrete initiatives that would boost real growth and improve competitiveness. that is why i abstained in voting in favour of this document.
in writing. − we are now in the fourth year of this commission. the commission's main task is to deal with the economic crisis that has affected a large part of the eu. while much has been done in the area of economic promotion, it would be desirable for the commission's environmental action to be rational rather than based on ambition alone. often, draft legislation proposed by the commission, while moving in the right direction towards a greener eu, becomes an insurmountable burden on member states, both because of the implementation measures and because of overly strict deadlines. on the other hand, i would urge the commission to stick to its long-term programme and to present a draft of the new wording of the eia directive in 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the evaluation of the 2nd voluntary unpaid tissue and cell donation report. while healthcare is largely a member state competence, the recommendations aim to develop areas such as cross-border donation. it is essential that member states organise and define compensation for donation carefully, setting strict conditions under which financial compensation may be granted and that compensation is strictly limited to the reimbursement of the costs incurred in the context of organ donation. it is essential to ensure that the human body is not a source of financial gain. i agree that it is important to regulate the online purchase of germ cells to avoid the emergence of a possible online black market and to increase the number of blood stem cell collection centres to increase the chances of finding a donor.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because donation should be voluntary, which means that no material benefit is sought. the health sector is largely managed at national level, and the guidelines therefore aim to complement existing practice by developing certain areas such as cross-border donation. in the case of donation, the emphasis is on altruism in the donation of tissues and cells. the compensation of the member state for the donation should therefore be well organised and should cover only the costs incurred as a result of the donation (e.g. travel costs). effective international cooperation is essential to ensure sound controls in order to ensure the greatest possible transparency and security in the donation system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on voluntary unpaid tissue and cell donation, as voluntary unpaid tissue and cell donation helps to ensure high standards of tissue and cell safety and therefore the protection of human health. healthcare is largely a member state competence and the recommendations aim to complement existing practice in the member states and develop areas such as cross-border donation. member states are encouraged to increase public information and awareness campaigns on tissue and cell donation and to ensure the provision of clear, accurate, scientifically sound and convincing information and data enabling the public to make informed decisions. it is also emphasised that donors should be fully informed about the procedures involved in this process and the moral, psychological, medical and social implications associated with them.
in writing. − i agree with this document tissue and cell donation must be voluntary, without any profit or financial gain. i fully agree with the condition that tissues and cells intended for recipients may only be taken in two cases: for medical or scientific and therapeutic purposes, and that tissues and cells must be taken free of charge. any unethical practices for the purpose of removing tissues or cells should be avoided and should be carried out only by professionals in their field. i think there are a few things that can be singled out to avoid a vague donation. first, public information information campaigns ensuring clear and scientifically based information is provided to donors and recipients, from consent to donation to the consequences of transplantation. secondly, traceability from donor to patient must be ensured, while maintaining anonymity and applying the highest standards of quality for transplanted tissues and cells, in particular in the case of third countries. the european commission also has a special role in overseeing the morally sensitive donation system, which is based on the principles of anonymity and voluntariness. and to act as quickly as possible when possible irregularities are detected in member states, especially in the case of financial compensation.
in writing. − addressing the shortage of tissue and cells available for medical purposes is a growing challenge for all eu member states. this report focuses on three main objectives: increased harvesting of umbilical-cord blood, further expansion of stem-cell donation, and financial compensation for potential tissue donors. umbilical-cord blood contains 10 times as many stem cells as bone marrow, but in many member states it is wasted. i voted in favour of this report, because it encourages the introduction of appropriate, transparent, and regularly audited financial compensation for potential donors. by attracting donors, this will ensure a steady supply of vital stem cells. the compensation will cover only the cost incurred in donation, protecting the health of the donor while upholding the ethical argument that the human body must not become a priced commodity. i agree with my colleagues that this initiative will allow eu citizens greater access to life-saving and tissue-regenerating stem cells while increasing the transparency and traceability of donations. this will ensure the safety of stem-cell use and provide for a plentiful donated supply of quality tissue and cells.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the essence of a green, or sustainable, economy is to preserve the productive functions of ecosystems while creating a society that meets people's basic needs. therefore, the creation of a green economy requires respect for nature and the fair distribution of resources, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, disability or beliefs. gender equality in political and economic decision-making is essential, as democracy is based on the elected representatives of all the population. parties should take all measures to achieve gender balance and to ensure that women's interests are taken into account on an equal footing with men's. it must be borne in mind that natural resources are limited. also, the production and consumption of food products emits pollutants that enter the ecosystem. therefore, the economical use of natural resources is important to avoid negative ecological impacts. this means that we need to move to a green economy scenario. gender equality is part of a green and sustainable economic system. it is very important to make the role of women visible, and women should be allowed to participate in the development of society.
in writing. − the current trends in society are leading to a relentless consumption of resources and a deepening of social exclusion. the starting point for changing this is to promote activities in environmentally-oriented areas. this report makes a significant contribution to the creation of a green economy, where social equity and human well-being are created by reducing the negative impact on the environment. the report highlights the need to integrate women into agriculture, science and eco-innovation. since women have a harder time adapting to a changing labour market than men, their integration should be one of the eu's top priorities in building a green economy. i voted in favour of this report because its implementation would not only improve women's well-being, but also encourage changes towards a more sustainable economy.
in writing. − i voted for this report because 83.1% of women of working age are employed in the service sector. unfortunately, there are certain stereotypes in society that determine the division of work between the sexes. it is believed that there are female and male jobs, with the female being predominantly domestic. stereotypes also exist regarding flexibility, and it is still considered that women's primary responsibility is to take care of the home and family, and therefore it should be acceptable for them to work on a flexible schedule, in temporary or part-time jobs. women, on the other hand, are very concerned about reconciling work and family life. equal pay is also a key issue, as women in the eu now earn 17.1% less than men. the current legislative initiatives call for equal pay, but it still varies and progress is very slow. in its report 'equality between women and men 2010', the european commission highlighted the persistence of employment inequalities and expressed concern that the economic crisis was contributing to the deterioration of the situation by reducing or eliminating equality measures.
in writing. − eu statistics show that women are the majority of workers in the service sector. i voted in favour of this document because i agree that there is still a gap between men's and women's work in specific sectors. although the service sector generates the majority of jobs and income, it is still the lowest paid sector. in assessing the responsibilities of women in the household, the possibility of terminating work because of pregnancy the possible discriminatory lower remuneration. also, one of the biggest threats in this sector is illegal employment and wages. therefore, particular attention should be paid to the exploitation of workers, in particular third-country emigrants, by employers in the service sector in the member states who employ women on a part-time basis and pay inadequate remuneration for their work. investment in training, gender pay equity, flexible work schedules, taking into account the roles of women key measures to improve the position and working conditions of women in the service sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is another step towards reducing social exclusion and improving the position of women in the labour market. the service sector provides about 70% of all jobs in the eu, and women account for about 83% of all workers in this sector. statistics show that women earn 19% less than men for the same job. this encourages discriminatory treatment of certain professions and affects social security at retirement age. the eu must therefore take decisive action to promote the deeper integration of women into the labour market, to protect their rights and to improve their working conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the priorities for the 'education and training 2020' programme for 2012-14. it is important to promote cooperation in this area in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which requires more advanced investment and policy reform. i agree that the main priorities of the programme should be to reduce the number of out-of-school children, to promote lifelong learning and to promote international mobility. i support the suggestions that more attention should be paid to the development of the pre-school child, that lifelong learning should be facilitated for the disabled, and that small grants should be made available for students from poorer backgrounds who are not yet in university. it is also necessary for universities in the eu member states to develop learning opportunities, update curricula and adapt them to changing market needs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because language skills and, in general, multilingualism are important for finding a job in another eu country. both the eu contribution and the resources allocated at national level are important. another area of concern is the labour market outlook for older people. now that pension age is rising in many eu countries, it is important to achieve lifelong learning not only in theory but also in practice. in general, it is important to emphasise that in education, priority is given to assessment from the pupil's perspective and interests. the development of pre-school children should also be considered, as this stage is the basis for further education and training. unfortunately, economic hardship often leaves this area in the background, and it is important to stress that this is not a luxury that can be relinquished without harm. investments in this area can have excellent social benefits in the future, such as lower crime rates.
in writing. − i voted in favour because 'education and training 2020' (et 2020) is a strategic programme for european cooperation in education and training, based on the previous work programme on education and training for 2010 (et 2010). every two years, the ministers of education and the european commission publish a report on the overall state of education and training across the eu, assessing progress towards the common objectives. the report summarises the actions and developments of the first phase of implementation of et 2020 in 2009-2011 and proposes priority areas for european policy cooperation for the next phase in 2012-2014. in particular, it focuses on how cooperation in education and training can contribute to achieving the europe 2020 objectives. europe needs strong investment and policy reforms, and more efforts are needed to achieve the europe 2020 headline target of reducing the number of out-of-school children. it is worth noting that international mobility provides an opportunity to acquire new skills.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the eu's main political priorities in education. in the face of the current economic crisis, we cannot reduce funding for education, as this will have negative consequences for the future economy and increase social exclusion. only five of the 27 eu countries have managed to implement the european commission's proposal to allocate 1% of gdp to education. i therefore support the proposals in the report to increase funding for programmes in pre-primary education, multilingualism and lifelong learning, as we cannot achieve the objectives of europe 2014-2020 without a responsible approach to the development of education programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a legal framework to facilitate the crossborder distribution of audiovisual works in the digital single market. the cultural and creative sectors in the eu generate 2.5% of eu gdp, the same as the automotive industry, and the eu should therefore promote this sector and create an environment conducive to legitimate supply, innovation and creativity. i support the proposals to improve the conditions for acquiring original works online, to develop alternative innovative systems for small payments for works, such as sms payments. i support calls for the permanent application of an international system for the identification and numbering of audiovisual works, which would give each work a permanent, unique number and thus facilitate the movement of works. i agree that in the future vat should be reduced on cultural works and services distributed in digital format in order to address the inequality between online and face-to-face services.
in writing. − the audiovisual and cinema sectors are vital components of the eu’s cultural and creative industries, which collectively contribute added value to the economy to the tune of 2.5% of total gdp – as much as the automotive industry. i supported this report because it calls for a public environment that fosters the creation and accessibility of legal audiovisual content. legal certainty and regulation of authors’ rights and copyright laws must exist in the european online environment in order to establish such beneficial conditions. the distribution and promotion of original european audiovisual content is vital to the development of european education and culture in today’s digital age.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report on minimum legal standards and support for victims of crime is an important and long-awaited vote by the european parliament. the aim of the directive is to strengthen the rights of victims in the eu and the mutual recognition of protection measures in judicial proceedings. all victims of crime, irrespective of their legal status, should be afforded the widest possible protection throughout the union. for this reason, we should establish minimum protection standards across the community that grant rights to all victims of crime, regardless of their nationality or the place where the crime was committed. the right of the injured party (understood as the victim of a crime) to information, interpretation and translation, access to legal aid and victim support services and the right to be heard should therefore be guaranteed. the provision of the directive protecting the victim from unwanted contact with the offender deserves support. victims, but also, and importantly, their family members, and in particular children, should be offered free support, including psychological support, from the moment they are harmed. to make these changes, a uniform definition of 'victim' is needed, the same for all legal systems in the eu member states, whereby 'victim' will mean not only the person harmed by the perpetrator, but also the members and close family members. the union should establish as soon as possible a transparent justice system which will include the above proposals.
president of the commission. − mr president, i will give very concrete answers to very concrete questions. first of all, to mr martin – because he was accusing me of giving too much attention to other members of the parliament – we are currently discussing in the commission what we can do in terms of this issue of the risks inherent in different kinds of activities between banks. as you know, commissioner barnier has asked mr liikanen to put forward a report. based on that report we will take decisions about what we can do to prevent risks associated with big banks, namely the possibility of addressing the issue of different activities they may pursue. regarding other concrete issues, such as romania and bulgaria, we have already said that we believe that romania and bulgaria meet the necessary conditions to become members of the schengen area. i want to reiterate that here today. that, of course, does not mean that we do not have the right to act when we believe decisions taken by any of our member states may call into question some of the principles of the rule of law that all member states accepted. some of you insisted on the issue of social cohesion. indeed it is a very important matter. the reality is that we are doing what we can at european level, but there are differences here between the instruments available at national and european level. as you may be aware, one of the concerns we now have in terms of the discussion for the next mff is the opposition that some of our governments are signalling, not only about the reinforcement of the social fund, but also the globalisation adjustment fund, which is so important for workers who may feel the impact and be considered redundant because of some structural transformations in europe, and even the solidarity fund, because there are some governments that are simply proposing the elimination of this fund. i would also like to thank those of you who have referred to the european programme of aid for deprived persons. i would like to confirm that the commission will put forward a proposal for a new programme to help poor people in europe because there is now rising poverty in europe. so that is why we have to be absolutely sincere and frank. yes, i say those words once again. you cannot withdraw from the european institutions the instruments for showing solidarity and afterwards criticise europe because europe does not have enough solidarity. we also need to act at european level in the social area. this is critically important, not only because it is just, but because we need a social dimension at european level so that we can keep support for our social market economy and for our european project. when we speak about more europe, it is not just more europe for the sake of europe or for the european institutions. the crisis in the euro area has shown that the credibility of the euro as a single currency is also dependent on the coherence and integration of the decisions taken for the euro area. when people ask me why we need more europe, we need more europe if we want to keep and sustain a common currency. we need more integration of the institutions, but also more harmonisation of norms to avoid behaviours that are against the common norms and also we need more coherence of policies. this is indispensable for a common currency. of course, we want to make those proposals not just for the euro area but for the european union because we want this to be united and open for all. if some members do not want to join us, of course they have that right, but they should not have the right to prevent those who want to have a stronger union from building that stronger union, not only for the currency but also for our common goals of a united europe. finally, let me thank you for this debate. i believe in democracy. i believe in national democracy, but also in european democracy. i want to reiterate that today, in the 21st century, with national democracy alone our citizens will not be able to control their future and their countries will become irrelevant. we are living in fundamentally new times. that is why we need to complete our national democracies with a strong european democracy. this parliament is the basis for that future stronger european democracy. [applause]
in writing. in the european union, as the financial, economic and social crisis continues, it is necessary to find the political will to take unpopular and difficult decisions that are essential for the eu's survival. today, the creation of a european banking union was mentioned, which will allow for more effective supervision of this sector in the future. i support this decision, but i regret that the union has not yet taken the steps that, if they had been taken in time, would have enabled the union and its member states to deal more successfully with the crisis. i am talking about the creation of a european credit rating agency, which would allow a fairer and more objective assessment of the economies of the member states. i also recall the call for the establishment of a gas purchasing group at eu level to ensure fair and competitive gas prices for all member states, which in turn would increase the competitiveness of our industry and reduce consumer bills. for a long time, we were convinced that the crisis was over and that the only way out of it was to adopt the most austere austerity measures. we now see that these austerity measures have reduced consumption and revenue collection, have led to a sharp increase in unemployment and have halted economic growth in the member states for a long time. most economists acknowledge that austerity measures have not delivered the benefits they were hoping for and have only made the eu's economic and social recovery more difficult.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. this directive aims to protect the rights of victims, to provide assistance and protection to victims and their family members, and to ensure the protection of the rights of victims in criminal proceedings by providing them with information in clear and understandable language on the progress of the proceedings and the decisions taken. harmonising these minimum standards would boost the confidence of eu citizens in their own and other member states' judicial systems. i support the proposal to adopt a comprehensive european legal framework giving victims, regardless of their nationality or the place of the crime, the right to information, to interpretation and translation, to access victim support services, to avoid contact between the victim and the offender, to protection during interrogation during criminal proceedings, etc. i agree that a uniform definition of victimhood should be established, which would extend the victim status not only to the victims of crime but also to their immediate family members.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, with the entry into force of the 2009 treaty of lisbon and the guidelines set out in the stockholm programme, the protection of victims of crime in the eu has become one of the most important issues on the eu agenda. closer cooperation between member states and better coordination of action with regard to victims would help to reduce the negative impact of crime and the risk of secondary and repeat victimisation and stigmatisation. all victims, regardless of their origin or the nature of the harm suffered, should receive free assistance, be treated with respect and be communicated in a language they understand. the victim concept should also include the provision of assistance to the children and family members of victims. it is essential that the privacy and family life of victims be protected by all possible means during and after criminal proceedings. particular attention should be paid to the media, which often makes victims feel vulnerable and disoriented, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that the media take self-regulatory measures. in order to avoid indirect discrimination, persons with disabilities, women or children who are victims of sexual violence, victims of terrorism and victims of organised crime should be defined not as 'vulnerable victims' but as 'victims with special needs' and be guaranteed specific protection measures: asylum, medical assistance, legal and psychological counselling.
in writing. − the creation of a single area of justice requires that the rights of participants in judicial or administrative proceedings are also guaranteed in the same way throughout the eu. it is therefore very important that we have today voted in favour of a directive which harmonises the rights of the most vulnerable parties to the proceedings, i.e. victims, at eu level. this directive will have particular relevance in the case of transnational crime. i also urge the council to adopt the text adopted by parliament as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to align the part of the legislation governing eu trade policy with the provisions of articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the amendments should cover the appropriate involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts, the extension of the period for the possible objection to a draft delegated act, the delegation of power by reason of a deferral of time and the modification of the procedure for the application of the written procedure. references to the committee procedure in relation to the regulation on the common organisation of agricultural markets should also be deleted and incorporated into this regulation in order to reflect any changes resulting from the application of the written procedure. this would also ensure that the european parliament's committee on international trade does not lose its right to scrutinise implementing acts necessary for the administration of the quota system.
in writing. - i voted for this report. whereas this gives the commission the power to revise the quotas in question, which will lead to a better administration of those quotas;
in writing. − i have endorsed this communication, which aims to align the three council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the system of implementing legislation and delegated acts applicable since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon (articles 290 and 291 tfeu).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i want consistency in the legislation governing trade. to achieve this, the necessary amendments to the two general trade regulations, namely new recitals on the implementation of the acts, should be inserted in the basic acts, the european parliament should be involved in the preparation of delegated acts, the period of delegation of power to the commission should be limited, the period for opposing the draft delegated act should be extended, together with the extension of the examination period, and the conditions for the application of the written procedure should be changed. in order to ensure the effective application of the written procedure, a reference to committee procedures should be inserted in each amended regulation. under the new regulation, the international trade committee of the european parliament will have the right to examine such implementing acts, thus ensuring a fair follow-up to the implementation of the legislation in the field of the common commercial policy (based on article 207 tfeu).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as the main objective of the commission proposal was to align the three council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the regime of implementing legislation and delegated acts applicable since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. moreover, these amended regulations, rather than the single cmo regulation, will be the basic acts for future implementing legislation. accordingly, the international trade committee, and not the agriculture committee, will have the right of review in relation to such implementing acts. this will help to achieve consistency in trade regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on improving and simplifying the functioning of the mutual recognition agreement (mra) with australia. the aim of this agreement is to remove technical barriers to trade and to protect the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties to the agreement. to this end, each party to the agreement is empowered to verify and certify on its territory, prior to export, that the products meet the regulatory requirements of the other party. i agree with the proposed improvements to the agreement, including the removal of the restriction on rules of origin for industrial products, so that the gsp applies to all products covered by the agreement, irrespective of their origin. i agree that in order to simplify the operation of the cmp, it is necessary to provide for a simpler procedure for the designation and suspension of conformity assessment bodies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it offers the possibility of improving the mutual recognition agreement (mra) with australia, which entered into force on 1 january 1999. the amendments will make the structure of the sectoral annexes more flexible, remove trade restrictions between the parties, reduce the administrative burden associated with the gsp and clarify the gsp. the restriction relating to the rules of origin for industrial products should be removed, as this is the only way to ensure that the gsp applies to all products covered by it. as the joint committee is co-chaired by the parties, all references to the chair of the joint committee should be deleted. it is important to emphasise that the joint committee may amend the sectoral annexes when taking into account technical progress and other actions. in order to simplify the operation of the ce marking, the procedures for the designation, withdrawal of designation and suspension of conformity assessment bodies should be facilitated.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the draft agreement amending the agreement between the european community and australia on the mutual recognition of conformity assessment, certificates and markings. these are agreements on mutual recognition of conformity assessment of regulated products. the gpa gives both parties the power to verify and certify on their territory, before export, that products meet the regulatory requirements of the other party. the aim of the saa is therefore to remove technical barriers to trade and to protect the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties to the agreement. the gpa with australia provides in its main part for rules governing the establishment of conformity assessment bodies and specific rules applicable to the various sectors concerned.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on improving and simplifying the functioning of the mutual recognition agreement (mra) with new zealand. the aim of this agreement is to remove technical barriers to trade and to protect the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties to the agreement. to this end, each party to the agreement is empowered to verify and certify on its territory, prior to export, that the products meet the regulatory requirements of the other party. i agree with the proposed improvements to the agreement, including the removal of the restriction on rules of origin for industrial products, so that the gsp applies to all products covered by the agreement, irrespective of their origin.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it offers the possibility of improving the mutual recognition agreement (mra) with new zealand, which entered into force on 1 january 1999. the amendments will make the structure of the sectoral annexes more flexible, remove restrictions on trade between the parties, reduce the administrative burden associated with the gsp, simplify and clarify the gsp. in order to apply the gsp to all products covered by it, irrespective of their origin, an unnecessary restriction on the rules of origin for industrial products should be removed. it is worth noting that the joint committee is co-chaired by the parties, so all references to the chair of the joint committee must be deleted. it is important to emphasise that the joint committee may amend the sectoral annexes when taking into account technical progress and other actions. it is also necessary to facilitate the procedure for the designation, withdrawal of designation and suspension of conformity assessment bodies, as this will simplify the operation of the cab.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the ec-new zealand agreement on mutual recognition for conformity assessment. the ppas are agreements on mutual recognition of conformity assessment of regulated products. the gpa gives each party to the agreement the power to verify and certify on its territory, prior to export, that products meet the regulatory requirements of the other party. the aim of the saa is therefore to remove technical barriers to trade and to protect the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties to the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the application of measures to states which allow illegal fishing. the continuing violations of the un convention on the law of the sea and the agreement on fisheries, as well as the actions taken in breach of the established requirements for cooperation between states in the management of migratory fish stocks, require the adoption of a legal instrument allowing the eu to take action against non-cooperative states. in order to reduce the negative impact on fish stocks, it is necessary to impose appropriate sanctions on member states, and i therefore support the proposals set out in this report on the introduction of quantitative restrictions on imports of fishery products into the eu by countries that allow illegal fishing. the export of fishing vessels and fishing gear to such states should also be prohibited, as should the conclusion of private trade agreements with other states by nationals of such states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to adopt a legal instrument enabling the eu to take effective action to deter illegal fishing against states that do not want to cooperate in the adoption and implementation of agreed management measures, that repeatedly violate the un convention on the law of the sea and the un agreement on fisheries, and that take unilateral action without regard to the requirements laid down. strict action is required in the event of any infringement, otherwise the negative impact on eu fisheries will not be stopped and fish stocks will be depleted. a clear political position, including a clear concept and effective measures, is therefore essential.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of measures relating to states which allow illegal fishing for the purpose of conserving fish stocks. the purpose of the document is to impose restrictions on the access to union ports by fishing vessels flying the flag of states authorising illegal fishing, except in cases of force majeure or accidents requiring the provision of services directly related to the remediation of those situations. the new regulation thus contributes to the promotion and implementation of sustainable and responsible fishing at international level and is also closely linked to the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. in view of the objectives of the reform of the common fisheries policy and in order to promote sustainable production activities, the mandate of the organisation should be reviewed. i support the proposals to involve producer organisations more in fisheries management, to strengthen their economic viability and to encourage the creation of international producer organisations. another very important issue in this report concerns the labelling of fishery products. it is essential to ensure and increase consumer awareness of fishery products. the obligation for consumers to receive more detailed information on the fishery product purchased should therefore include the date of landing and the eu ecolabel for products caught in a straight line.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. whereas the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products must also have a positive impact on the dynamic development of the eu's agricultural sector in the future, so that the depletion of natural fish stocks can better meet the growing demand for fish in europe; aquaculture producer organisations should also have access to a set of tools to implement promotion and communication actions at national and international level and to provide added value for their members.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the common foreign and security policy. it is an important document, and i fully support its provisions. i am glad that it has a place to mark the eu-taiwan relations. this is very important to me, especially in the context of today, when the long-running dispute between japan and china over the island chain has recently become an open confrontation. it should be noted that taiwan's presence and its peaceful, non-confrontational policy is not only important for maintaining stability in the east china sea region, but also acts as a stabilising factor in general. the eu welcomes the good relations with taiwan, which must be further developed. in this context, i support the provision in the resolution that it is imperative to urge the commission and the council to take concrete action to further strengthen eu-taiwan economic relations and facilitate the negotiation of an eu-taiwan economic cooperation agreement. the eu should also strongly support taiwan's meaningful participation in relevant international organisations and activities, including the world health organisation. i am pleased that the eu visa waiver programme for taiwanese citizens, which entered into force in january 2011, has proved to be mutually beneficial.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the eu's common foreign and security policy. the eu's foreign and security policy must, in particular, ensure the protection and defence of the eu's values and interests in the world, and contribute to peace, human security, the strengthening of solidarity, conflict prevention, the promotion of the rule of law and democracy, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, poverty reduction and the defence of other values in the international arena. the eu has acquired a new dimension in european external action with the treaty of lisbon, which means that eu external policy must be coherent, consistent and effective, and based on long-term strategies. i agree with the criticism in the resolution that the council's annual report on foreign and security policy does not set out clear priorities for the medium and long term and the means to ensure their consistency. i believe that the eu's external policy must be based on clearly defined and measurable criteria and guidelines, which allow progress to be monitored and ensure consistency in eu policy in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the development of a new strategic approach is a major contribution to the european union's foreign policy. the 2010 council report under-emphasises several important aspects of the objectives of the lisbon treaty. examples include the failure to translate cfsp priorities or strategic guidelines, the avoidance of issues that ensure that the union's resources are aligned with its foreign affairs priorities. in particular, the eu is strongly encouraged to pursue greater synergies based on the tripartite mandate and the support of the eeas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the eu should continue to develop its foreign policy ambitions, to promote values and to defend its interests worldwide, in line with the common objective of contributing to peace, human security, strengthening solidarity, conflict prevention, promotion of the rule of law and democracy, protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, gender equality, respect for international law and support for international institutions, effective multilateralism and mutual respect between peoples, sustainable development, transparent and accountable governance, free and fair trade and poverty reduction. to achieve these objectives, the eu should be able to engage and develop strategic partnerships with countries that share common values and are committed to common policies and mutually agreed actions. the eu's ability to influence the international order depends not only on the coherence of its policies, actors and institutions, but also on the existing strategic concept of eu foreign policy, which must unite and coordinate all member states and convince them to follow the same priorities and objectives, so that they can show solidarity and have a united and balanced voice in the international arena. the eu's foreign policy must provide the means for the union to operate effectively and consistently on the world stage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. it is intended to avoid over-intensive fishing and the depletion of fish stocks, while ensuring the livelihood of eu fishermen. i support the proposals for long-term management plans for all eu fishing regions, taking into account the specificities of the seas, and for a separate regime for small-scale coastal fishing. long-term management plans should have a clear objective and be based on an ecosystem-based approach to managing mixed fisheries. i agree that a mechanism should be set up to compensate fishermen who have experienced financial difficulties. it is necessary to establish an effective no-discharge policy, a mechanism for sanctions against member states that do not comply with the rules and to give the european fisheries control agency greater powers to ensure the functioning of the sanctions system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the efforts of eu member states to strengthen conservation, restore fish stocks and reduce the capacity of the fishing fleet have been insufficient. the recovery plans must be established for all eu and geographical fishing regions, taking into account the different characteristics of the seas, with a separate approach for small-scale coastal fishing. the current situation is that short-term national issues obscure the long-term governance aspect, which hinders the pursuit of the common objective. it is essential to develop a decision-making framework for management plans and decisions on tacs and quotas, which would be applicable in the absence of data, as there is now a clear lack of reliable and available data. as the current cfp provisions are not sufficient to tackle overfishing, the cfp needs to be reviewed, with clear deadlines for fleet reduction and speed, and a sanction mechanism for member states that do not comply. financial support should also be provided for fishermen who suffer from the consequences of the overfishing of the identified fishery resources. fleet capacity regulation is another very important aspect that could be ensured by the remuneration received for sustainable fishing. in addition, organic fishing vessels should be allowed to benefit from preferential fishing rights.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as it calls for the conservation of living resources and long-term environmental sustainability, the increase of fish productivity and the conservation of living aquatic resources and marine ecosystems. the commission's report confirms once again that the current common fisheries policy (cfp) is falling short of its objectives for the protection and sustainable exploitation of eu fisheries and the adaptation of existing fishing capacity to the available fish stocks. more than 60% of fish stocks in european waters are caught in excess of the maximum sustainable yield. it is recognised that the tac and quota system alone have not been effective in the sustainable management of some fish stocks over the last decade. a very large number of jobs in the european fisheries industry have been lost due to the poor state of the resources, the increase in production costs, the fall in prices.
in writing. − the ep resolution on the reform of the common fisheries policy is important for lithuanian fishermen and the entire fishing industry. i supported two amendments to this document, which proposed to allocate subsidies from the eu budget to the refurbishment of fishing vessels (these subsidies were suspended in 2002, i.e. before lithuania joined the eu). the second amendment proposed an increase in fishing quotas. the first amendment was rejected and the second adopted by the ep plenary vote. the reform of the fisheries policy, adopted in 2002 and still in force, has left all the new eu member states without subsidies for fleet renewal, placing them in a very difficult situation. most of the ships that needed repair were cut up. such reforms excluded potential competitors from the markets of the old eu member states, forgetting that fisheries are not only jobs and income for the people of the new eu member states, but also a tradition and a way of life. the lithuanian fishermen have suffered a considerable loss, which has a monetary impact. unfortunately, the amendments to the eu member states' subsidies for the renewal of their fishing fleets were not supported by a majority of meps. i therefore voted against this document, expressing my opposition to the proposed reform of the eu's common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the eu's common fisheries policy. the aim of the reform is to avoid over-fishing and depletion of fish stocks, while ensuring the livelihoods of eu fishermen. it is necessary to ensure that by 2015 all fish stocks are fished below sustainable levels and that long-term management plans are established. in order to make the measures chosen more appropriate to regional and local needs, the most appropriate safeguard measures should be chosen by the member states themselves. i agree that it is necessary to prohibit the discarding of unwanted fish and to ensure that consumers are provided with all the necessary information on the quality and sustainability of the products they buy. financial support should be limited to environmentally friendly initiatives and a strict control system should be established to ensure that illegal activities are not financed. finally, it is important that the eu promotes the same principles of good maritime governance around the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the reform of the common fisheries policy, as the fishing industry is of strategic importance for the supply of fish products to society and for the stability of food supplies in the various member states and in the european union itself, and as it makes a significant contribution to the social and economic well-being of coastal communities, to development at local level, to employment, economic activity and to the preservation and creation of jobs in the production and consumption sectors, as well as to the preservation of local cultural traditions. it is vital that the implementation of the cfp in the fisheries sector is guided by an approach that takes into account the biological, ecological as well as the economic and social aspects (the three pillars of the cfp reform) in order to always find a compromise between the situation of existing resources in the different marine zones and the social and economic structure of coastal communities that depend on coastal fishing for jobs and prosperity. it is also important to bear in mind that the main objective of any fisheries policy is to ensure the supply of fish to the public and the development of coastal communities by promoting employment and improving the working conditions of fisheries professionals, while ensuring the long-term viability of the resources, thus enabling them to be properly conserved.
in writing. this decision is a very important and welcome step towards the formulation of a single external energy policy for the eu by ensuring that third-country entities operating in the eu's single internal energy market under construction are subject to the same rules as eu entities. while the solution could be more ambitious, if member states cooperate in good faith and share information, we will soon be able to see the benefits of this for the development of the eu's energy sector, common infrastructure and the creation of the internal market. i welcome the commission's declaration to participate actively, to continue monitoring and to make further legislative proposals if necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil is based on a balance of benefits based on the principles of mutual benefit, mutual access to each country's research and technological development activities, timely exchange of information that may affect cooperation activities and adequate legal protection of intellectual property. the extension of the agreement will further develop visits and exchanges of scientists, researchers and technical experts, as well as the joint organisation and participation in scientific seminars, conferences and symposia. of course, the exchange and sharing of equipment, materials, information on practices, laws, regulations and programmes relevant to cooperation is also an integral part of this agreement, so that the mutual benefits are clear.
in writing. − i voted for this report because this agreement will improve relations between the two countries, promote regional integration and expand opportunities for people. the agreement will bring clear mutual benefits, as both algerian and member states' scientists and technical experts will have the opportunity to organise and participate in joint visits, seminars, conferences and symposia. the activities will also include the exchange and sharing of equipment, materials, information on practices, laws, regulations and programmes relevant to cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament needs to work smoothly and transparently, and this can only be achieved by having access to all the necessary documents and information. in order to ensure that parliament can effectively exercise its exclusive rights and powers, it is necessary to give it access to classified information held by the council and therefore it is necessary to lay down the rules for cooperation between the council and parliament. members and staff on parliament's premises must have access to classified information, in accordance with parliament's security rules, and this may include rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and all committee members. this draft agreement contains provisions on access to classified information in matters not related to the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on the transmission to the european parliament and the handling in the european parliament of classified information held by the council on matters not covered by the common foreign and security policy. whereas transparency and access to all necessary documents and information are the foundations of democracy and its indispensable precondition; this is particularly important for the european parliament to be able to do its job. furthermore, the agreement on the transmission to and handling by the european parliament of classified information held by the council which is not related to the common foreign and security policy is a necessary instrument for the full exercise of parliament's powers and functions. it is therefore necessary to lay down the rules for cooperation between the council and parliament to achieve these objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the smart regulatory agenda is a step forward towards better regulation, simplification of eu law and reduction of administrative and regulatory burdens. the idea was to transform the lisbon strategy into a 'europe 2020' strategy, with a focus on competitiveness and reducing administrative burdens through smart regulation, to ensure that markets serve people. the key now is to ensure that more active action is taken. it is important to update the 2003 interinstitutional agreement in the light of the legal circumstances arising from the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. the need for action in the areas of subsidiarity checks by national parliaments and impact assessments by parliament and the council should also be emphasised. finally, the functioning of the existing legislation should be examined.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the need for a euro-atlantic policy strategy is clear. a strategy will be launched in 2014 with european union as well as national and regional funding. it is also very important to emphasise that the atlantic private and public partners will be involved in the process of preparing the action plan in 2012 and 2013. the atlantic region has specific problems which are not only national in scope and therefore solutions should be taken at the level of the atlantic coastal region as appropriate. the strategy aims to promote the conservation of atlantic resources, to control human activities in an appropriate way in order to maintain the ecological balance. the strategy also aims to improve connectivity with the atlantic regions, to promote the competitiveness of industrial sectors, and to improve the response to certain emergencies and other emergencies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the atlantic region has several characteristics which make the problems broader than national and require political solutions at the level of the atlantic coastal countries. it is desirable that the atlantic strategy be a macro-regional strategy in order to promote the interaction of the various measures and actions at different levels of spatial planning policy. the macro-regional approach will also ensure that local actors (private sector, regional and local authorities, civil society organisations) are involved in the definition and implementation of the strategy's objectives. the strategy is encouraged to be based on two themes: maritime and land-based spatial planning and improving land-sea links and promoting the economy of the atlantic regions through an industrial policy adapted to their specific characteristics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it provides for the conclusion of economic partnership agreements between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the eu together with the member states, and council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 clearly sets out the detailed arrangements applicable to the production from these countries. this regulation provides for duty-free access to the eu market. unfortunately, some countries have not taken all the necessary steps to ratify the epas and have not concluded the regional negotiations, and the european commission has therefore proposed (as of 1 january 2014) to remove these countries from the list of countries covered by this provision. seventeen countries have not yet begun the ratification process, which the european commission considers to be inconsistent with wto rules. in principle, measures are proposed to give impetus to the negotiations, but agreements of this type are complex, difficult to implement within a strict time limit, and the proposed deadline (until 2014) is too short. the amendments incorporated in the proposal also aim to bring the decision-making procedures into line with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of removing certain countries from the list of regions or countries which have withdrawn from the negotiations, as the current situation was not in line with wto rules and raised a question of fairness both with regard to countries which have fulfilled their commitments and ratified agreements and with regard to developing countries which are not acp partners. the amendments proposed are designed to intensify the ongoing negotiations on the epa and thus to conclude comprehensive regional agreements. in general, the main reason for this proposal is probably to increase pressure and thus to give impetus to the negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because a reliable energy supply is essential to fostering a predictable economic environment for eu citizens and for the eu industry as a whole. a stable internal energy market is the best way to ensure energy supply. however, given that eu countries still import over 60% of their gas and over 80% of their oil, many eu member states are vulnerable in this respect. the 2009 gas supply crisis has demonstrated the weaknesses and vulnerabilities of the eu gas supply system. the adoption of regulation (eu) no 994/2010 has provided the union with certain measures to combat future gas supply shortages, but the challenge of providing gas at competitive prices remains.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision establishing a mechanism for the exchange of information on intergovernmental energy agreements between member states and third countries. the eu is highly dependent on energy imports, and its energy security is therefore vulnerable to disruptions in supply from outside the eu. moreover, energy imports account for a large proportion of total eu imports - a high cost and risk to the eu economy. the eu and the member states should have an interest in the regulation of external relations in the field of energy through intergovernmental agreements and in strengthening the negotiating capacity of the member states through the exchange of information and best practices between the member states and the commission. intergovernmental agreements, especially if they are properly coordinated by the member states, should therefore help to increase the eu's competitiveness. intergovernmental agreements can support the eu's objective of increasing the diversity of energy supply routes and sources. moreover, a sustainable and reliable energy supply is crucial to fostering a predictable economic environment for citizens and the eu industry. the best way to ensure energy supply is through an internal energy market. i therefore supported the objective of this proposal to increase the transparency of intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy between member states and to ensure that member states are informed of the conformity of the agreement with the internal market rules or of any infringement thereof. the commission will therefore have to develop standard provisions which member states will be encouraged to use. this will ensure that the intergovernmental agreement does not infringe eu law.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, energy became an eu policy area. the document adopted today is one of the first steps towards achieving the eu's energy policy objectives. the single energy market in the european union cannot exist unless member states coordinate their actions and share information on planned or existing agreements with third countries in the energy sector. i hope that this is not the last document to help the european union and the energy sector speak the same language.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because consumers are very concerned about the quality of food, which stimulates demand for high-quality products both in the domestic and international markets. the eu has its own food quality policy instruments: labels and quality schemes that focus on the valuable qualities of products and the regional specificity of products. new proposals are currently being made for the application of national and private certification schemes for quality and marketing standards relating to quality assurance. one of the priorities is to try to simplify and develop existing schemes, as well as to introduce new quality terms. the main objective of all the amendments submitted is to ensure consistency with other amendments that promote a move beyond processed foods.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the quality and diversity of the european union's agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture production is an important asset, a source of competitive advantage for eu producers to succeed and an important part of the european union's living cultural and gastronomic heritage. this is due to the skills and determination of eu farmers and producers who have managed not only to maintain traditions but also to take account of the development of new production methods and materials. european agriculture produces a wide range of food products using a methodology that protects the environment and takes account of the needs of rural communities. this document aims to help producers of agricultural and food products to inform buyers and consumers about the characteristics and the characteristics of those products derived from the farming method, thus improving the conditions of fair competition between farmers and producers offering agricultural and food products with value-added characteristics and characteristics, the availability to consumers of reliable information on such products and the respect of intellectual property rights and the integrity of the internal market.
in writing. − during this parliamentary term, we have discussed legislation on several occasions to improve consumer information on the origin and composition of the food they consume. this regulation on agricultural product quality schemes is therefore another step towards better information. i hope that the council's approval of the text will make it easier for consumers to understand information on both the production methods of agricultural products and geographical indications or designations of origin.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to create a european sector focused on investing in legal persons engaged in non-profit-making activities, with a wide range of social objectives. certain types of investment funds may be granted the status of 'european social entrepreneurship fund' and the corresponding passports, provided that they meet the criteria set out in this proposal. two directives already apply which are linked to investment funds: directive 2011/61/ec of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2009/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to create a european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises. in order to qualify as a 'european venture capital fund', investment funds must meet the requirements set by the managers of the venture capital fund. investment restrictions will also apply, which will be determined by the use of the fund's assets. two directives already apply: directive 2011/61/ec of the european parliament and of the council and directive 2009/65/ec of the european parliament and of the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as the european union trade agreement with colombia and peru was signed on 26 june 2012 providing for the reduction and elimination of customs duties, as well as a safeguard clause which provides that preferential tariffs may be suspended or eliminated if increased imports due to trade liberalisation would worsen the situation of european industry and also threaten employment in the eu. the provisions of the bilateral safeguard measure in the peru-colombia trade agreement submitted by the european commission are similar to the provisions of the bilateral safeguard clauses in the eu-republic of korea epa, except for two key differences: the stabilisation measure for bananas and the special regime for the outermost and vulnerable regions of the european union. finally, it is essential to include certain aspects such as reporting and monitoring of provisions. in principle, it is necessary to ensure that the agreement is implemented in accordance with international labour and environmental conventions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amended proposal because this agreement has a significant impact on the agricultural sector, in particular the corresponding impact on banana exports to the european market. the provisions of the agreements mean that the eu market will be more open to imports, in particular of bananas, sugar and beef, and that the eu will have more scope to export other agricultural products to these countries, such as dairy products, cereals, pigmeat and spirits. both the agreement with colombia and peru and the agreement signed with the six central american countries contain a chapter on the mutual recognition of geographical indications, which will allow the european union to protect some 200 geographical indications. bananas are the main agricultural product exported to the european union from these countries, in particular colombia and costa rica, and to a lesser extent from panama, honduras, peru and guatemala. the agreements provide for even lower customs duties for the european union on imports of bananas from these countries, thus making the contractual conditions for latin american exports to the european market even more favourable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because on 22 march 2011 the european union signed an agreement with six central american countries, which established preferential, liberalised trade in certain agricultural products. this has resulted in a greater openness of the eu to imports, which will increase the eu's ability to export certain products to central american countries. the agreement also includes a stabilisation measure for imports of bananas, which allows the suspension of the preferential rate of duty if a certain import ceiling is reached (foreseen until 2020). it is essential to ensure the effectiveness of both the stabilisation mechanism for banana imports and the safeguard clause.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the rational dissemination of information in virtual space is beneficial for the internal market and the digitisation of cultural works should therefore continue to be supported. the european parliament supports the idea of a legislative solution to help solve the problems of unregistered copyright works. the creation of a european database to facilitate access to information is also welcomed, but it should not be forgotten that the copyright management system itself needs to be improved. there is a proposal to allow certain institutions (education, as well as libraries, museums, archives) to publish works without copyright. access to such works should be free for all. the commission also provides for exemptions and licences to facilitate the digitisation of unregistered copyright works. it is important to emphasise that, in principle, copyright is an essential basis for innovation, investment and production in the creative industries, and it is therefore essential that rightholders have the possibility to revoke the status of unencumbered copyrighted works.
in writing. − i abstained from voting on this document as the question remains whether the harmonised definitions of the beneficiaries mentioned in the commission proposal should be applied and how the member states intend to proceed in cases where one member state has to carry out a thorough search but the information available in another member state is more accurate, up-to-date and therefore more suitable for the necessary search. more attention should also be paid to the spectrum of authorised uses, as the proposal allows for a broad interpretation not only of the definition but also of any use in different member states.
in writing. − this report proposes ways of regulating the use of works by unidentified authors more fairly. according to statistics, about 45% of all works in the european union fall into this category. under the current regime, in order to protect the rights of works not identified by the author, such works cannot be publicly displayed and are not accessible to the public. this prohibition shall remain in force until the authors are identified. the report argues that the current system is an obstacle to the dissemination of european culture. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for the demonstration of works which are not subject to copyright and for all the funds to be used to find the creators of these works. i support the rapporteur's joint proposal to help public libraries, museums, archives and broadcasters to contribute to the revival of europe's cultural heritage by all possible means.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to adopt a regulation establishing aid measures for pakistan, which has recently been hit by floods. the main objective of this regulation is to extend the autonomous trade preferences for 75 products. despite the fact that humanitarian aid is already being provided, trade preferences would further contribute to combating the long-term negative economic consequences of the floods. the recovery of the state of pakistan is important not only for its citizens but also for the overall stability of the region. it is important that the commission carries out a full assessment before setting an exact time limit for the extension of the autonomous trade preferences. the overall impact of the measures on eu trade and production, their effectiveness for the pakistani population and fiscal resources, as well as pakistan's commitments to improve the efficiency of the tax system should be assessed. it is essential that the rules of origin of the products concerned are strictly respected and that the trade preferences benefit only those to whom they are intended, and it is essential that this serves the recovery of the pakistani economy. it is also important to underline that the deterioration of the human rights situation in pakistan may affect the suspension of trade preferences in the future.
in writing. - i abstained on the emergency autonomous trade preferences for pakistan. as the autonomous trade preferences for pakistan have also been extended for a period of three years, the commission did not carry out a full assessment of the proposed measures before adopting the proposal for a regulation. it should also be noted that the commission proposal does not impose any obligations on pakistan in the field of human and social rights. furthermore, it can be assumed that similar initiatives may be taken in the future following the decision to grant autonomous trade preferences to flood-affected pakistan. there is therefore a risk that the adoption of autonomous trade preferences, without any human rights conditions attached, would in fact undermine the current eu preference system based on respect for fundamental rights and values.
in writing. − i was one of the co-authors of this resolution, as the situation in syria is of great concern to the international community. thousands of dead, maimed syrians, seriously injured children, thousands of refugees stranded in neighbouring countries - this is the price of president bashar al-assad's continued rule. the international community, in some circumstances, the disastrous position of china and russia in attacking bashar al-assad and his regime, the presidential election campaign in the us implies that the eu must play a much greater role and take on greater responsibility in this situation. i voted in favour of this important resolution and hope that it will encourage eu leaders and high representative ashton to take more active action to resolve this bloody conflict that has gone on for too long.
in writing. - the situation in syria is tragic. we must make it clear that the moral responsibility for the regime's violence, the loss of life, the limited ways in which the international community operates, and the vetoes in the un security council rests with the countries that have used them. in addition to all diplomatic, political and humanitarian means, it is important that material on the crimes against humanity committed in syria be referred to the international criminal court. abstaining from this action would hardly bring peace any closer to syria.
in writing. − the current conflict in syria is a humanitarian disaster that must not continue. thousands of syrians have been killed since the uprising began. hundreds of thousands of refugees have streamed across the borders of neighbouring countries. the eu must further on act under the csdp to try to end the bloodshed and resolve the crisis as soon as possible. i voted in favour of this resolution because it urges the member states to cooperate and agree on a common path forward, working together with regional countries surrounding syria, providing sufficient humanitarian aid for syrian citizens and refugees, consolidating opposition groups to form a united front to replace bassar al-assad and drafting a framework for a transitional government to oversee the implementation of peace and democracy in syria. direct military intervention could potentially aggravate the situation, and is not the best option. the eu should continue to apply pressure and economic sanctions on syria while working with the other members of the un security council to arrive at a common solution for this terrible crisis.
in writing. - i voted yes. justice used for political purposes is no longer justice. in addition to the worrying trends and instances of injustice mentioned in the resolution, it should be noted that there are 'black holes' in the territory of the russian federation where injustice and impunity are allowed to flourish. i am sure that there are many people in russia who value this document and the support of the european parliament.
in writing. − russia is an important partner of the european union, with which our community of states is committed to cooperating in the interests of modernisation. but neither the european parliament nor the eu as a whole will turn a blind eye to the kremlin's efforts to limit the activities of an increasingly liberal civil society. russia has recently seen some positive developments, joining the wto and committing to trade in line with global standards. in the spring, steps were taken towards more equitable parties, the registration of presidential candidates and the restoration of direct elections for regional governors. unfortunately, at the same time, we see less and less signs of the kremlin's willingness to cooperate with civil movements. intolerance of dissenting activists is growing. in duma, laws are being passed at lightning speed that restrict the freedom of demonstration, the space for ngos. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for russia to change course towards a state that respects the rule of law and guarantees human rights. the kremlin should stop politically manipulating the judiciary and turn to civil society and engage in dialogue with it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, ramil safarov, a lieutenant of the azerbaijani armed forces who was convicted of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment in hungary, was transferred to azerbaijan in order to serve the sentence imposed on him, at the long-standing request of the azerbaijani authorities. instead, lieutenant safarov received a glorious welcome in azerbaijan and was granted a presidential pardon, set free and promoted to major. the european parliament could only deplore the hero’s welcome and presidential pardon granted to safarov because – and i fully agree with my colleague mr schöpflin – it runs contrary to the spirit of the international agreement. the lack of any substantial progress as regards the peace process in nagorno-karabakh does not justify either acts of revenge or provocation, which only add tension to an already tense and sensitive situation in the region.
in writing. today we are voting on the european parliament's position on the 2013 budget of the european union. while there is a lively debate on what the eu budget should be for next year, it should nevertheless be remembered that, despite differing opinions, we all have the common interest in the well-being of the member states of the european union and their citizens. i therefore urge you to take note of the positions proposed by the european parliament, which are truly balanced and relevant, ensuring the implementation of the eu's key priorities. first and foremost, we must ensure the continuity of eu-funded projects, and we must not allow the european union to put a stop to what it itself is promoting through its priorities. i am pleased that the budget for the coming year focuses heavily on economic growth, promoting competitiveness, and employing young people. it is essential that the eu supports long-term investment in research, development and innovation (rdi), and no less necessary is coordinated funding to boost member states' recovery. i understand the member states' desire to cut spending, to reduce their budget deficits as much as possible, but we cannot forget that the eu budget is investing in the future of our own countries. economic growth is based on the development of energy, innovation, research and education, and it is therefore necessary to ensure not only the continuity of existing programmes but also the development and financing of new policy areas, clearly defined in the priorities of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it is essential to remember that 2013 is the last year of the current multiannual financial framework and it is therefore essential to ensure the balance between commitments made so far and the payments to be made in respect of them, otherwise the credibility of the eu institutions could be undermined and there could be legal consequences for the commission if legitimate payment requests are not paid. it should also be emphasised and kept in mind that the eu budget should be seen as an additional tool to support member states' economies, allowing initiatives and investments to be focused on strategic areas for growth and job creation, as well as leveraging sectors with activities that transcend national borders.
in writing. my support for paragraph 26 of the european parliament resolution on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 is total, given the importance of cohesion policy for future years. as the permanent rapporteur for the european social fund (esf), i am pleased that he has been reminded to respect the vote of the committee on employment and social affairs confirming the commission's proposal to dedicate 25% of cohesion policy to the esf. the european social fund is the main instrument for social integration through occupational integration; it is essential that this tool continues and that its use is increased in the next period 2014-2020. i therefore call on the member states to assume their responsibilities at the european summit in november.
in writing. − in the face of the looming economic crisis, the eu budget for the next financial perspective is clearly not just about size, but also about its effective use. the eu funds for the implementation of the five-year plans and the europe 2020 targets must, on the one hand, ensure that all countries are equally able to participate effectively in eu projects (this includes both the development of eu-wide infrastructure and the distribution of these funds, ensuring that they are distributed equally to all countries). on the other hand, the funds must be used for economic incentives that promote and ensure the efficient and effective use of resources. only by using resources efficiently will we achieve effective economic growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i share the parliament's view that the main advantages of the new vat proposal are its transparency, fairness to taxpayers in all member states, greater simplicity and the possibility of becoming genuine own resources in the future.
in writing. − own resources and their proper collection in the eu budget a prerequisite for the budget itself to be effective. however, as regards vat, i would also point out that, in order to achieve the uniform level of this tax throughout the european union, it is necessary to give careful consideration to the various possibilities which the member states currently have for applying various vat concessions, which are mainly intended to achieve social objectives. on the one hand, this tax cannot be used as a disguised form of state aid to certain sectors, and on the other hand, it is necessary to define at eu level the areas in which states may derogate from the general rules.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank you and my colleagues for the opportunity to say a few words regarding the agreement on conformity assessment and acceptance, the so-called acaa between israel and the eu, which is a fiercely debated issue. let me start by recalling what an acaa is about. its objective is to eliminate barriers to trade, by allowing products covered by the agreement to enter the markets of the parties without additional conformity assessment procedures. so we are basically talking about mutual recognition of conformity assessment and inspection, results which will reduce costs and time for economic operators. acaa is a protocol to the eu-israel association agreement and its scope of application is therefore the same as set out in article 83 of the association agreement. as follows from the international obligations of the eu and as confirmed by the european court of justice in the brita case, the eu does not recognise israeli jurisdiction over the territories placed under israeli administration after 1967. rest assured that the commission will observe this position in the implementation of the acaa. as you know, when the agreement enters into force, the commission will have to acknowledge under article 9 of the acaa the responsible israeli authority which will have to deliver conformity certificates. this acknowledgement will not entail any recognition of israeli jurisdiction over territories placed under israeli administration after 1967. you can also rest assured that, upon receipt of the israeli notification of its responsible authority, the commission will expressly state that acknowledgement is granted only on the basis that the territory covered by the responsible authority does not include the territories brought under israeli administration in 1967. in the light of this, palestinian products cannot be discriminated against in the certification process in israel because israel will have to apply the eu acquis. like any eu member state, israel must carry out inspections irrespective of the origin of the product, when a request is received. if there were to be cases of discrimination, the palestinian manufacturer could lodge a complaint with the israeli judicial authorities. of course, the commission could also use existing means under the association agreement to ensure that israel implements the acaa. there could be a link between the certification process and the origin of the products in a situation where the israeli responsible authority goes into the occupied territories in order to certify products made in the settlements. and we need to be aware of this. i would also like to react to recent concerns about parliament’s role in the context of procedures to amend this acaa, including by adding annexes for other industrial products in future. the matter seems to be in line with the lisbon treaty. moreover, the commission will also abide by its obligations under the framework agreement to keep parliament fully informed before approving modifications to an agreement under article 218(7) of the lisbon treaty. lastly, we have other acaas in the pipeline with other countries where we would expect to face similar, though not identical, concerns. our experience with the present consent procedure will serve as a useful guide.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the ppe group is in favour of the acaa and we look forward to the vote in order to give our consent to this important agreement between the eu and israel. after a deliberation of more than two and a half years, we are finally having this discussion in the plenary session on acaa. i am happy that there has been enough common sense among our colleagues in the inta committee to vote in favour of this agreement, which is good for both the eu and israel and is part of the eu association agreement. israel is the first country in the mediterranean region to achieve the basic conditions that enable it to reach an acaa with the eu. the acaa, together with the additional protocol on pharmaceutical products, aims at facilitating market access by eliminating technical barriers to trade in industrial products. in order to make the framework of the acaa operational, it has to be implemented into specific sectors, practices and regulations. as we know, once adopted, the acaa would cover mutual recognition of regulatory and verification procedures for pharmaceutical products in the eu and israel. such mutual recognition would certainly benefit european consumers and they would get quicker access to israeli pharmaceutical products, as there would no longer be a need for a second testing in the eu – something that normally takes from one to three years. colleagues, it should be mentioned that it took israel more than six years to adopt the necessary standards in the field of good manufacturing practice for pharmaceutical products. in other words, in order to conclude this agreement, and the additional protocol, israel had to substantially approximate its regulatory framework on pharmaceutical products to that of the eu. so we are spreading our acquis communautaire to israel, with a spill-over effect to other areas as well. in other words, it is in the eu’s interest to get israel’s legislation and standards closer to the eu’s. i would, therefore, like to encourage my colleagues to give our consent to the acaa later today. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – human rights are universal and we should not have double standards – one for palestinians and another for israelis. human rights are very important, but this agreement we are discussing today is purely technical in nature. it is part of the eu-israel association agreement. once we have concluded the association agreement, we should take the necessary steps in order to implement it. of course it is always our duty also to address human rights, whether we are speaking about israel or palestine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because independent and transparent advice is needed on issues that have a direct or indirect impact on food and feed safety. it is therefore necessary to implement measures to preserve the credibility of the european food safety authority. the office is invited to include in its annual activity reports a specific section summarising the actions taken to avoid and manage conflicts of interest. the authority is also invited to improve the openness and transparency of the risk assessment process, to take better account of the peer-reviewed scientific literature and to provide a detailed justification where no other opinion is recommended. the services are asked to enhance dialogue and cooperation with external experts and national agencies, in particular where they have different views on a particular risk assessment process. it is considered that the european food safety authority may grant discharge to the efsa in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the european medicines agency is a key player in the provision of scientific advice to the eu member states and institutions on the evaluation of the quality, safety and efficacy of medicines for human and veterinary use. the discharge is therefore an effective instrument of the european parliament, which must be used to reach a decision based on factual and substantive arguments. it is intended to provide the european medicines agency with discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, in which the european parliament supports the commission's proposal to declare 2013 the european year of citizens. the european year of citizens must build a bridge between brussels and the eu member states, which will encourage eu citizens to take an active part in elections and ensure that their voices are heard in the eu institutions. the year 2013 will be a pivotal year in promoting and strengthening a common european identity based on the fundamental values of the european union. i believe that in the midst of the ongoing economic crisis, the european year of citizens will encourage eu citizens to seize their rights and opportunities offered by freedom. statistics show that one third of eu citizens would like to exercise their rights, but they still face obstacles in the labour market, such as administrative difficulties when moving to another country. the european year of citizens is being celebrated to mark the 20th anniversary of eu citizenship as enshrined in the maastricht treaty. all initiatives and awareness-raising campaigns will highlight the real value of eu citizenship - active participation in the democratic life of the european union, and in particular in the 2014 european parliament elections.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the overall objective of the european year is to increase awareness of the rights attached to citizenship of the union so that citizens can fully exercise their right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. unfortunately, there is a lack of visibility and awareness of the specific benefits of union citizenship for eu citizens, students, workers, consumers and businesses, as well as suppliers of goods and services. the proposal therefore aims to give a new impetus to the debate on citizenship of the union and to put a strong emphasis on the informed and effective implementation of this right on the political agenda. i therefore believe that it should be of the utmost importance to strengthen citizenship of the union at all levels and at every stage of the democratic process, to ensure that citizenship becomes a highly relevant aspect of eu policy and a key priority for union action in all areas. to encourage citizens to participate in the democratic life of the union, citizens need to be informed about the real benefits of eu law and policy for them and how to make use of them everywhere in the societies of the eu member states. i am convinced that by providing more information about citizenship of the union and its concrete benefits to individuals, we are increasing awareness of the value of european integration.
in writing. − i support the proposal to declare 2013 the european year of citizens. this must be an efficient and rational use of time and resources, as the eu works to increase the level of information available to its citizens, so that they are better aware of their rights and unprecedented privileges, which are not available to citizens of any other member state of an international organisation. every citizen of the union enjoys the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament and to local government in the member state in which he or she lives, the right to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state in a third country, the right to petition the european parliament, the right to apply to the european ombudsman and the right to have recourse to the institutions of the union, as well as a host of other rights in areas as diverse as the free movement of goods and services, consumer protection and public health, equal opportunities and treatment, employment opportunities and social protection. the 20 years of development of the concept of citizenship of the union have brought many good results, but there are still many cases where eu citizens are prevented from exercising their rights because of practical obstacles and because they are not sufficiently aware of their rights and obligations. we will therefore await the 2013 european citizenship report, which should set out proposals to remove the remaining obstacles. it is also desirable that the impact of the information and communication campaign on european citizens be analysed by means of quantitative studies at the end of 2013 to see whether the campaign has been effective and whether the objectives set have been achieved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to the council to impose a visa ban on officials involved and still involved in this case of gross human rights violation. it is regrettable that, despite the fact that the eu has been addressing the issue to russia in the framework of the human rights dialogue for three years, no progress has been made. i do not think that any further progress in this case will be achieved by continuing to limit the dialogue to human rights. it is time to send a strong signal to russia to address the injustice, corruption and human rights situation that have taken place. i therefore hope that the council will listen to the european parliament's proposal and take the appropriate decisions. it should be noted that the parliaments of the member states have already addressed similar recommendations to their governments. i believe that persons on this list should not be issued either schengen or national visas of eu member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document because a globally coordinated approach is needed to ensure the interoperability of new technologies worldwide. the synchronised implementation of bed legislation requires strong partnerships with all actors and all member states, including cooperation with neighbouring countries. one of the key challenges to be addressed is the elimination of the fragmentation of european airspace. air traffic controllers shall strictly respect the geographical boundaries of their countries of operation, which have at least one air traffic services provider. in order to increase efficiency and reduce congestion, this fragmented national approach needs to be replaced by functional airspace blocks.
in writing. − in the context of the need for efficient and effective use of resources, legislation affecting the functioning of the single european sky must also be implemented as quickly as possible. the single european sky is a key element in the eu's strategy to reduce air pollution and reduce air pollution. i understand the concerns of member states related to national security interests, but i urge them to resolve these issues as soon as possible in the name of more efficient travel and a more competitive eu aviation sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because this commission communication lists the rights of passengers in all modes of transport, which as a whole in the eu ensure the necessary protection of passengers. the eu rules are formulated to ensure the proportionality and differentiation necessary due to the differences in transport modes and their markets, i.e. in terms of type of journey. however, together they form a common framework of passenger rights: non-discrimination means that passengers and tour operators cannot be discriminated against on the basis of their place of residence or nationality; information on travel conditions; transparency, including price transparency; assistance in the event of disruption of travel by offering alternative transport or a full refund of the ticket price if the route is cancelled or delayed for a long period; compensation (except in exceptional circumstances); care of passengers (meals or, depending on the circumstances, hotel accommodation). also, the provision of assistance and accessibility to disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility.
in writing. −integration is not just the accession of new countries to the european union or the inclusion of new policies in the eu's sphere of competence. integration means applying the same rules in the same sector. as regards passenger transport, we have already adopted documents during this term of office setting out the rights of passengers travelling by bus, ferry and air. it is essential to ensure that passengers travelling in different modes of transport on the same journey enjoy the same rights. in particular, they concern information on trips and their cancellation, as well as passengers with reduced mobility. i therefore support the document's view that the commission still has a lot to do to ensure that passengers can travel comfortably and safely throughout the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour, because our citizens have the right to know how funds are spent, how taxes paid by them are received and how the powers granted to political bodies are used. the council, as an institution of the union, should be democratically accountable to the citizens of the union for the use of union funds, since parliament is the only directly elected institution of the union and is responsible for the discharge of the general budget of the union. parliament's right to give a discharge, that is to say to exercise parliamentary scrutiny and control over the entire budget of the european union without exception and to give an independent discharge, not only in respect of the section of the budget implemented by the commission but also in respect of the sections of the budget implemented by the other institutions, should be emphasised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the discharge is an effective tool for the european parliament to assess, on the basis of factual and substantiated arguments, whether eu subsidies are being used properly. in addition, the european environment agency has always been regarded positively for its professional, independent and reliable provision of information to all institutions, member states and union policy-making bodies. so i hope she'll continue to be professional in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amendment because i believe it is very important that the crew members trained in different countries, under different systems, are sufficiently competent to work on the same ship and can safely carry out their duties. i am convinced that training is indeed essential for maritime safety. the amendments adopted relate both to the rules set out in the annex to the convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers and to a more technical code. the main amendments to the convention include stricter provisions on training and assessment, the issuing of certificates of competence and the prevention of unfair practices. in addition, updated standards on medical fitness, fitness to stand, and alcohol abuse. new requirements for the certification of qualified seafarers as chief electricians are provided, as well as requirements for the safety-related training of all seafarers.
in writing. − i welcome the result of the european parliament’s vote giving consent to the protocol to the eu-israel agreement on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products (acaa): 379 in favour, 230 against with 41 abstentions. also i would like to express my gratitude to those colleagues who supported this important resolution. the vote endorsed the epp group line on this important agreement between the eu and israel, whose additional protocol on pharmaceutical products will help to facilitate market access by eliminating technical barriers to trade on industrial products. once in force, the acaa foresees mutual recognition of regulatory and verification procedures for pharmaceutical products in the eu and israel. such mutual recognition would certainly benefit european consumers. since there would no longer be a need for additional testing in the eu, something that normally takes from one to three years, european consumers would get quicker access to israeli pharmaceutical products. it means that eu citizens will benefit directly from this agreement as they will be able to get good quality pharmaceutical products from israel quicker and cheaper.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because the protocol will allow eu exporters, if they so wish, to inspect and certify their industrial products once before export, subject to the same harmonised requirements and standards, and then to place the products on the israeli market without having to undergo a further conformity assessment certification procedure. these provisions will also apply to israeli exporters on the basis of the same harmonised requirements and standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of an eu-israel agreement, which is clearly beneficial for eu consumers, as it will significantly reduce the price of imported medicines and make generic medicines more accessible to eu citizens. this agreement, which is intended to be concluded in the framework of the association agreement and which will serve as a protocol thereto, shall have the same scope as that provided for in article 83 of the association agreement. the commission is committed to monitoring the territorial dimension. i would also recall the clarification provided by the commission to the european parliament during the debate of 3 july 2012 on acaa and the origin of products. as regards consistency, it should be noted that some other eu partners are in a similar situation, but this reflects little on the development of the eu and their trade relations and encourages bilateral trade, with the eu choosing to exert its influence through greater inclusion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of eu development policy. i support the rapporteur’s veiw that the eu should further develop a clear linkage between relief, rehabilitation and development, particularly in the light of the continuing nutrition crisis. the eu must assume, strengthen and demonstrate a leading role in fighting malnutrition, using effective and sustained assistance through a combination of public and private partnerships and corporate social responsibility. specific investments in food, health and nutrition are of the utmost importance, bearing in mind that improving the nutrition of mothers and children is key to eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable growth. in this regard, i support the rapporteur’s view that the new strategy on human rights, which focuses on economic, social and cultural rights as well as those codified in the universal declaration on human rights, should have an impact on budget support methods. it is very important that the union fully assumes the responsibility incumbent on it as the world’s leading donor of development aid, and turns its political potential to better effect, further developing its leading role on development issues at international level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document, as the potential of european entrepreneurs will be strengthened and the eu economy will grow again only if the eu succeeds in improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and at the same time adopts measures to reduce the administrative burden on smes. the role of industry is crucial to the european economy. manufacturing accounts for 25% of private sector jobs in the eu and 80% of private sector research and technological development. all agree that the eu should improve the competitiveness of eu enterprises of all sizes in order to recover from the crisis. this requires an environment conducive to new ideas and new business ventures. such a business-friendly environment in europe is not well developed, also because of the wide variation in industrial policies between member states. however, the reality is that it is essential and necessary to achieve sustainable growth and economic recovery, as called for in the europe 2020 strategy, by pursuing a coherent and coordinated industrial policy by member states and implementing fundamental structural changes in the eu industrial system.
in writing. − i support the document adopted today, as i am convinced that we are not yet paying enough attention to the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union. it is this type of business, which has recently been the largest employer, that is disproportionately disadvantaged both in terms of access to eu support and in terms of the various administrative procedures that make it disproportionately difficult for them to operate. i therefore support calls for the legislation governing smes to be revised as soon as possible, simplifying it and giving smes greater access to the eu's single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on trade and economic relations with the united states. the usa and the eu are very important trade partners: the two economies together account for about half of the global economic output and nearly a third of world trade flows, making this relationship the largest economic relationship in the world. although the economic ties between the eu and the us are among the most open in the world, there is a general consensus that the potential of the transatlantic relationship is far from being fully exploited. therefore it is important to foster the ongoing joint discussion between the eu and the us on how to work collectively to increase growth potential and financial stability. i support the rapporteur’s view that, in order to ensure long-term prosperity and employment, a joint commitment and effort is needed to create new opportunities for businesses both large and small, to promote entrepreneurship and to capitalise on the advantages offered by the uniquely integrated transatlantic market. in this regard, we, members of the ep, emphasise that there are many areas where progress would be greatly beneficial, such as the removal of trade barriers and better market access.
in writing. - i voted yes. in the context of the continuing economic and financial crisis in the european union and the united states, it is important to remove existing barriers to bilateral trade. this would bring mutual benefits to the budget revenues of both countries, help mitigate the effects of the crisis, boost growth in both economies and in people, reduce unemployment, promote entrepreneurship, and open up new opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. the economies of these two trading partners account for more than half of the world economy, almost a third of global trade flows and the largest economic relationship in the world, but the potential exists to expect even greater mutual benefits and positive impacts on the global economy. i therefore hope that the current eu-us dialogue will be productive and that concrete and far-reaching proposals will be forthcoming in the near future.
in writing. the creation of the single market should be one of the eu's major achievements, and eu citizens and businesses should already be benefiting from it. however, to date, particularly economically strong member states have been engaged in protectionism on their markets, which has prevented genuine competition in the internal market. the successful functioning of this market is directly dependent on the proper implementation of other eu policies. as regards agriculture, farmers in some countries, including the baltic states, have not yet been able to benefit from the benefits of the single market because they are not given equal opportunities to compete in agriculture because of the very low level of direct payments. in the field of research and innovation, different rules apply to researchers from different countries participating in european projects, in particular because of lower remuneration for the same work. a transparent and uniform public procurement system has not yet been established. the access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises is not facilitated. i believe that in the current difficult economic climate, every opportunity must be taken to strengthen the eu's single market and to exploit its full potential for growth and employment. i would therefore urge the commission to take concrete action and to put forward the necessary proposals to remove the existing obstacles and to make the single market work in practice.
in writing. in the european union, there are still many obstacles that make it difficult to reap the full benefits of the single market and to exercise the right to free movement. several issues require the european commission's particular attention. companies continue to face problems in accessing public procurement in other member states. this applies to both contractors and subcontractors. this is due to the excessive diversity of national practices and the complex administrative requirements in individual countries, including the lingüistic barriers that still exist in the offices, which are contrary to the promotion of linguistic diversity by the union. another thing that would facilitate access to the community labour market is to simplify and speed up procedures for reimbursing medical treatment abroad and to ensure that the necessary measures are taken within the health and social insurance systems to ensure that mobile citizens are adequately protected. greater mobility of skilled workers can make the european economy more competitive. this requires the adoption of a modern model for the recognition of professional qualifications. it should be stressed that the movement of workers between member states must be voluntary and must be accompanied by full respect for workers' rights. any discrimination based on the origin or nationality of workers in any member state shall be unacceptable. removing these barriers will allow europeans to enjoy the positive aspects of membership of the european union.
in writing. i regret that the 2012 budgetary disbursement is jeopardising a number of very important and successful programmes, including erasmus and research and innovation programmes, due to a lack of funds. the stability of erasmus funding and next year's budget also appear to be threatened, although we have spoken of the need for additional funding for erasmus for the next eu funding period 2014-2020 in reference to the programme's 25th anniversary. the situation of youth unemployment in recent years has clearly demonstrated the importance of targeted measures to reduce the gap between education and the labour market and the high level of youth unemployment in many member states, to promote mobility and lifelong learning. erasmus is one of the most successful programmes in the world, providing opportunities for european citizens to develop and strengthening multilateral cooperation in higher education. i hope that the european parliament's concern about erasmus and funding for research and innovation programmes will encourage the european commission and the member states, which clearly understand the value of these education and innovation policy instruments, to seek solutions for the security and stability of these programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of an implementing regulation laying down the rules for implementing the provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) and the eu-serbia interim agreement (isa). the correct and smooth application of the eu-serbia interim agreement is essential for the integration of serbia into the european political and economic area, and i therefore support the proposal to adapt it to the new common commercial regulation, taking into account the innovations of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because on 29 april 2008 one of the first stabilisation and association agreements (saa) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was signed in luxembourg, which will influence future economic partnership agreements and trade-related provisions between the european community and the republic of serbia. in order to ensure the correct and smooth application of the interim agreements, the commission indicated that the provisions of the five regulations relating to the implementing acts are in general in line with the latest provisions of the commission proposal on ec-sas serbia and the interim agreement. for this reason, the amendments to the five possible provisions of the regulation, as set out in the notice on the first comprehensive trade act, should be reflected in the amendments to the commission proposal under consideration. this would ensure a consistent and coherent position of the european parliament on the stabilisation and association process with the republic of serbia.
in writing. − i have supported the european commission's proposal for an implementing regulation laying down the rules and procedures for the adoption of the detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of the ec-serbia stabilisation and association agreement and the ec-serbia interim agreement, in order to ensure their smooth and correct implementation. serbia's progress has been recognised since the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement in 2008 and the recent granting of candidate status to serbia. however, serbia still has a long way to go in terms of implementing reforms, not only through legislation, but also through the implementation of european practices, including in areas such as the protection of foreign investment and the improvement of the business environment, member states' visas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. decision 2003/17/ec provides that seed of certain species grown in third countries is considered equivalent to seed grown in accordance with union legislation. in order to ensure the necessary supply of seeds to the eu market, it is necessary to extend the period of application of the council decision recognising the principle of equivalence for imports of seeds from third countries until 31 december 2022. i also support the proposal to delete yugoslavia from this text, which has long since been replaced by several new countries. it is necessary to include in the text the new names of the authorities responsible for the approval and control of production.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. it is important to me that the european parliament unanimously approved the commission's proposal to extend the 12-mile zone regime until the new common fisheries policy (cfp) is agreed. if we had not voted for this resolution, the 12-mile zone regime would have ended by the end of this year. i agree with the rapporteur that this would be totally unacceptable and unjustifiable. the important point is that member states have managed coastal fisheries quite successfully compared to the common fisheries policy, which is not feasible in practice due to over-centralized and ineffective controls from brussels. i agree with the rapporteur that the overall effectiveness of controls by member states in the 12 nautical mile zones clearly shows that management is most effective in the light of local circumstances.
in writing. - i agreed to this. since 2003, member states have been allowed to restrict fishing by certain vessels within the 12 nautical mile zone of member states (territorial waters). the purpose of this derogation is to enable member states to protect biologically vulnerable regions, ensure the sustainable management of fish stocks and preserve traditional fisheries. this derogation expires on 31 december 2012 and i therefore agree to extend it until 31 december 2014 in order to ensure the continued application of this derogation until the adoption of the new eu fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the commission's proposal aims to extend the existing regime for the exploitation of waters and resources in the 12-mile zone. under the current legislation on the common fisheries policy (cfp), article 17 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 provides for a derogation from the principle of equal access to the fishery resources of the member states in the 12-mile zone. this exemption shall apply from 1 january 2003 until 31 december 2012. the current proposal aims to extend the validity period until 31 december 2014. the current 12 nautical mile zones are functioning well, but if the current proposal is not accepted, they will expire on 31 december this year. those zones provide a degree of protection for vulnerable coastal communities, which would be incomprehensible to those fishing communities if the interinstitutional access bottleneck were removed.
in writing. − i have agreed to this proposal as it aims to extend the existing regime for the use of waters and resources in the 12 nautical mile zone. in addition, it remains to be expected that the reformed cap will be set up in a highly decentralised manner in general, and that member states will be allowed to take real management decisions through cooperation at regional level.
in writing. − the current situation of the common fisheries policy is unfortunately not conducive to sustainable exploitation of fish stocks. therefore, while the future of the cfp and the wider use of fisheries resources based on scientific evidence are being discussed, it is appropriate to use individual instruments which, as practice has shown, can be used effectively and ensure the conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources. for this reason, i support the extension of the scope of the regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of an eu-moldova agreement on the mutual protection of geographical indications for agricultural and food products. the aim of this agreement is to promote bilateral trade by providing for the extension of the system of geographical indications to protect the names of certain regional foodstuffs against plagiarism and to prevent possible misuse of eu indications. the republic of moldova shall undertake to ensure the protection of all listed eu geographical indications, while protecting its current geographical indications within the eu. i support the proposed agreement, which will contribute to closer eu-moldova trade relations, improving the quality of the food chain and promoting sustainable rural development.
in writing. − adequate information on agricultural and food products a prerequisite for ensuring safe food for consumers. one of the elements of such information is the appropriate protection of geographical indications. it is important that the same rules apply to products originating in the eu as to those imported from third countries. i therefore support the decision approving the agreement with moldova on the protection of such geographical indications.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the food aid convention on behalf of the european union. this convention is in line with the eu's efforts to contribute to the reduction of poverty and the eradication of hunger worldwide in the context of the millennium development goals. i agree with the need to establish an international legally binding framework which also defines the obligations and measures relating to the provision of food aid to developing countries. i support the proposals made to promote, in the implementation of this convention, a method of grant-based food aid, which would increase agricultural productivity and improve the livelihoods of rural areas. it is also important to monitor closely the impact of food aid on local food production and markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in accordance with the provisions of article 5 of this convention, the european parliament calls on the eu to make an ambitious minimum annual commitment for 2013 and to properly implement its annual commitments on food aid to developing countries. the visibility of the european union as a humanitarian actor is regrettable, as there is no common minimum annual eu commitment covering both eu and member state contributions. the european parliament, by common accord, therefore requests the commission to keep the eu and the member states that are parties to the convention fully informed of the implementation of the convention, inter alia, by transmitting their annual reports and by briefing the development committee on the implementation of the convention and the work of the committee on a regular basis. compliance with and further development of this convention will allow the most effective and efficient food aid policy to be pursued, consistently meeting the food and nutrition needs of the most vulnerable populations through objectively defined commitments.
in writing. − the european union's own practice shows that food aid is an important part of social policy and support for the eu's most deprived citizens. food aid to third countries is also an important part of the eu's development policy, which pursues essentially the same objectives. i therefore support the conclusion on behalf of the union of the renewed convention simplifying the procedure for the provision of food aid. the entry into force of these amendments will allow us to provide more effective assistance to the population of third countries suffering from food shortages.
in writing. − today, global food security and hunger represent a serious challenge. in 2010, approximately 925 million people (13.6% of the world’s population) did not have enough food to eat. despite advances made in reducing income poverty around the world, 98% of undernourished people live in developing countries. child malnutrition runs rampant as well, affecting millions of children worldwide every year. the eu is committed to fighting poverty and eradicating hunger on a global scale. the food aid convention 2012 will greatly aid in the construction of an international, legally binding framework to define and provide the necessary instruments for the delivery of food aid to developing countries. i voted in favour of this recommendation, because i believe that fac 2012 will streamline and improve food aid policy and ensure that the food and nutrition needs of the most critical populations will be met effectively. fac 2012 will increase transparency of food assistance and humanitarian programmes and provide for more effective donor coordination. we in the eu have a responsibility to assist our less fortunate counterparts in developing countries – fac 2012 will go a long way towards helping us to achieve that goal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on consular protection of union citizens abroad. the new directive aims to replace the 1995 regulation on diplomatic and consular missions. according to article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, every citizen of the union is entitled, when in a third country in which his member state is not represented, to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any other member state on the same conditions as nationals of that state. this principle is also enshrined in article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights. the proposed directive covers not only everyday situations, such as losing identity documents, being arrested or imprisoned, but also critical situations where eu citizens may need help. i agree with the view that in a crisis, the european union delegation would be responsible for the preparation of the crisis and for the coordination and delivery of support during the crisis. in order to avoid imposing an unbearable burden on either the eu presidency or the other member state represented in the area, the eu delegation should be responsible for the coordination of all cooperation and, in exceptional cases, for the coordination of the plans and actions of the eu member states' missions, the coordination of evacuation. i agree with the rapporteurs that this proposal is a great example of how 'more europe' does not mean more bureaucracy or more brussels. 'more europe' means more help for eu citizens, even when they do not have their own embassies in certain territories where they are in dangerous, critical situations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on strengthening consular protection for citizens of the european union abroad. the major crises of recent years, both those following the uprisings in libya and egypt and those following the earthquake in japan, which affected some 150 000 eu citizens, have shown the importance of consular protection in third countries. it is necessary to ensure that every eu citizen in a third country where his member state is not represented is entitled to protection by the consular authorities of any other member state under the same conditions as nationals of that state. i support the proposals made for the establishment of a clear framework for the coordination of cooperation and support between member states and for the establishment of common concepts of consular protection. i agree that member states should consider setting up a consular protection trust fund from which the embassy of the assisting member state could advance the costs of its assistance to the non-represented citizen and into which other member states should reimburse the funds paid.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to define more clearly the means of coordination and cooperation necessary to ensure the consular protection of eu citizens who are not represented on a daily basis. consular protection is a fundamental right conferred by eu citizenship within the meaning of article 20 (2) (c) and article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) and article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. in particular, in order to distinguish between two levels of consular protection, namely consular protection at local level, which applies in everyday life, and consular protection in crisis, member states should consider establishing a consular protection trust fund from which the embassy or consulate of the assisting member state could advance the costs of its assistance to the non-represented citizen and into which the other member states should reimburse the advance payments, in order to avoid financial burdens on the parties and to ensure that contingency plans take account of all eu citizens, including non-represented citizens. that council directive should allow for a wider network of eu delegations to play a greater role in ensuring consular protection.
in writing. − i supported this proposal because i believe that a new legislative instrument is needed to ensure that eu citizens can exercise their rights, including the right to protection in third countries. the right of citizens whose member state is not represented to request the assistance of the consular services of other member states which are represented is one of the rights conferred on citizens of the union. however, experience has shown that citizens cannot fully exercise their rights of consular protection. one of the main problems is that citizens are not aware that they have the right to receive assistance from the consulate of another member state when in a third country where their member state is not represented. this new directive aims to address this problem. this directive also aims at a harmonised approach to the issue of assistance to unrepresented union citizens. without prejudice to the right of unrepresented citizens to seek assistance from any member state's institutions, this directive will establish a framework under eu law whereby member states may agree that in certain countries or regions one member state will act as the lead state and coordinate consular activities. such agreements will be published, i.e. citizens travelling to certain areas will know which consulate they can contact first. in the long term, this could save money, as the need for other member states to have their own representations in the area concerned would be reduced by the appointment of a lead country by agreement between member states.
in writing. - i voted yes. once this decision has been taken, a national of a member state who is in difficulty in a third country where there is no diplomatic representation of his country will be able to apply for and receive equivalent consular assistance at the representation of another eu member state. this decision is a true expression of solidarity between eu member states, helping to better safeguard the rights of eu citizens in third countries and to provide them with the appropriate assistance. at the same time, it will allow the rationalisation of consular services, which is particularly relevant for smaller eu member states that do not have a wide network of diplomatic missions and do not have many bilateral consular agreements. it is important that this right is properly publicised and that eu citizens travelling abroad are aware of and use it.
in writing. − when eu citizens travel abroad in any third country in which their home state does not have representation, they should be entitled to protection by the consular or diplomatic authorities of any eu member state. for example, if a lithuanian citizen needed access to consular services in a third country and could not reach a lithuanian embassy or consulate, then that citizen should have a right to go to any eu member state consulate that is available. in crisis situations (such as national instability or rioting), the eu delegation present in the country should coordinate all cooperation between member consulates. i voted in favour of this report, because this document intends to make this goal a reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. this year marks the 20th anniversary of the creation of the single market. indeed, progress has been made in many areas and eu consumers and businesses still face serious obstacles to taking full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. a well-functioning single market is a key prerequisite for the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and a key eu instrument to promote the recovery and future growth of the member states' economies. many obstacles remain today because of the inadequate or untimely implementation of particularly important legislation in the member states. there is also a lack of political will, especially in the council, to agree on meaningful measures such as e-signature authentication, clear protection of intellectual property and copyright, consumer redress, and this is causing mistrust in the single market among eu citizens and businesses. i therefore expect the european commission to play a much more significant and responsible role in this area, particularly in monitoring the way in which member states transpose and implement the single market legislation and ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the economic and social well-being of eu citizens requires the creation of an internal market and a concrete plan of action and proposals to help address these citizens' concerns. i believe that the eu needs to do more in this period to remove the barriers to the functioning of the single market, particularly in sectors that can accelerate sustainable economic growth, such as cross-border business and entrepreneurship, the provision of services, access to finance and financial literacy. i would also urge the european commission to encourage smes to recruit young people and to strengthen youth mobility programmes so that young people can further develop their skills and have more opportunities to be employed and to be better integrated into the labour market. it is particularly important to develop a holistic approach to the single market, focusing on enabling citizens to benefit from the benefits of the single market and thus contribute to the territorial, economic and social cohesion of the european union.
in writing. − i voted for this document because the objective of the single market, which was completed in 1992, is to strengthen the links between citizens and member states, an area in which persons, goods, services and capital can move freely. the single market is a key factor in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and its objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. in this respect, it is essential to promote and enhance the efficiency of this single market, which has more than 500 million consumers and over eur 11 000 000 million of economic activity, in order to enable europe to boost economic growth and employment and to build the confidence of its citizens. unfortunately, as we mark the 20th anniversary of the single market this year, we find that expectations about the single market still do not correspond to reality. specific european citizens and businesses are still facing obstacles to the exercise of their rights under the single market acquis.
in writing. − i have endorsed this communication, which seeks to amend the regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community, in the light of the judgment of the court of justice of the european union in the case of duties on certain footwear with leather uppers imported from the people's republic of china and vietnam.
in writing. − protection against dumped imports is an important means of protecting the eu's internal market and must therefore be as effective as possible and in line with the provisions of eu primary law. i agree that we should update the legislation governing this protection in the light of the observations made by the court of justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the eu-japan negotiations on a free trade agreement. i am pleased that the european parliament adopted this resolution by a large majority, demonstrating the importance of developing eu-japan trade, the potential of which is still not fully exploited for the benefit of eu businesses, workers and consumers. the most obvious reason is the imposition by japan of non-tariff barriers which adversely affect the access of european businesses to the market. the successful implementation of the fta would create some 420 000 new jobs in the european union and increase eu exports to japan by 30%. this is particularly important in the light of the economic crisis, the high unemployment rate and the weak growth prospects for the eu economy. i agree with the rapporteur that in the formal negotiations for an eu-japan fta, japan needs to reaffirm the commitments it has made, in particular on the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade (ntbs). it is also important to ensure that if japan does not show sufficient willingness to take account of eu priority requirements such as the elimination of npas during the negotiations, the commission, after consulting the european parliament and the council, should suspend the negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of opening negotiations on a free trade agreement with japan. it is vital that the eu strengthens its economic and trade links with this country, one of the most economically influential in the world. this cooperation is particularly important in the light of the current economic crisis in the eu, the high unemployment rate and the weak growth forecasts for the eu economy. the eu's bilateral trade with japan is significantly lower than that with other partners such as the us, china and russia. a free trade agreement would allow for trade, and the removal of tariffs and other barriers could increase eu exports to japan by about 70%. in order to exploit the significant potential of eu-japan trade relations, it is essential that the japanese government commits to removing non-tariff barriers to trade; i also support the proposals put forward for the introduction of concessions on public procurement to ensure access for eu companies to japan's strategic sectors. i agree that an effective dispute settlement mechanism should be established to combat the emergence of new non-tariff barriers to trade and barriers to entry in the procurement market in japan.
in writing. - i supported this proposal because the eu and japan together generate more than a third of global gdp and account for more than 20% of world trade. the importance of japan as a political ally with an eu-like approach to the new challenges of a globalised world should therefore be taken into account. it is essential that the eu fully enhances its economic and trade links with the world's economically most powerful countries, such as japan, in order to maximise the employment and growth opportunities offered by the europe 2020 strategy. this is particularly important in the context of the current economic crisis, the high unemployment rate and the weak growth prospects for the eu economy.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament resolution calling on the council to allow the commission to open negotiations on a free trade agreement with japan, based on the scope of cooperation and clear objectives. the existing bilateral trade potential needs to be exploited to the mutual benefit of the eu and japanese economies, which are currently experiencing a difficult year. preliminary estimates alone suggest that by reducing tariffs and non-tariff barriers as much as possible, eu exports to japan could increase by 71% and japanese exports to the eu by 61%. the future negotiations on a free trade agreement will of course have to take account of the problematic aspects outlined in the european parliament's resolution, including environmental protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. global demand for energy and water is projected to increase by about 40% and food by 50% by 2030. the continuing increase in population and the growth of the middle class, especially in developing countries, will significantly increase the use of natural resources. development policy at eu and global level must therefore be geared to the needs of developing countries. i agree that the eu's trade agreements with third countries must reflect adequately the provisions on social standards that will contribute to the sustainable development of these countries in the future.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i support the adaptation of the eu's trade and investment policy to the countries most in need, and the commitments to support small producers and promote fair, natural and ethical trade initiatives. it is also important to draw attention to the eu action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women in development and to the promotion of monitoring and implementation of gender mainstreaming in eu-funded projects.
after long negotiations, russia finally became a member of the world trade organization. this should boost russia's gdp growth, accelerate the common modernisation programme with the european union, maintain and create jobs both in russia and in the eu countries, and implement higher environmental standards. the accession removed a major obstacle in the negotiations between the eu and russia for a new partnership and cooperation agreement. however, russia would have to implement its commitments consistently, further liberalise its trade regime and create a transparent and predictable environment for trade and foreign investment. membership of the wto does not allow for the deterioration of international trade conditions for political reasons or in the interests of lobby groups. it is important that the russian government, by reducing import tariffs, does not artificially introduce new, additional duties. eu-russia trade cooperation should also encourage closer integration of neighbouring belarus into world trade following russia's accession to the world trade organisation. the european union, together with russia, could help belarus to accelerate the adoption of wto standards that are compatible with trade regulations.
madam president, we welcome russia’s accession to the wto, but let us not forget that today is the ninth anniversary of mikhail khodorkovsky’s arrest. the yukos case, in which khodorkovsky’s oil company was essentially confiscated by the russian government, continues to cast a shadow over russia’s efforts to reassure its new partners in the wto. the yukos case is one of many examples of russia’s political use of justice, and that is why russia still needs to show that it can be trusted as a commercial partner. since khodorkovsky’s arrest in 2003, there have been many other signs of russia’s selective approach to the rule of law, especially in the commercial field. russia is also prone to using its gas resources as a diplomatic weapon, and a current eu price-fixing inquiry aimed at gazprom suggests that the kremlin will continue to put its own interests above its international obligations. so, russia is an important commercial partner for the eu, but it remains potentially unreliable.
we have not received any changes or innovations from belarus, a neighbour of the european union, for almost 20 years. the pyramid of power there is monumentally stable. the elections were again held without a choice, and were considered by the osce and other international organisations to be undemocratic and unfair. however, i fully agree with commissioner fühle that in this situation too, we must continue the critical dialogue with minsk and not isolate the belarusian people. the electronic archives show that over 18 years, as many as 116 european parliament resolutions covering belarus were adopted, mostly in response to specific events in the country. i think it is time for a broader report, which at parliamentary level would try to propose ways of breaking the deadlock in eu-belarus relations and modernising belarus.
for the efd group i am glad that i had the opportunity to observe the elections in georgia. i would like to thank you for the opportunity and also to emphasise that georgia has passed the democratic test by electing a new parliament. georgia has shown a very high level of confidence in europe and has shown that it has learned its lessons well. i would like to thank in particular the office for democratic institutions and human rights of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe for the great work it has done. i think that this election was peaceful, it was well organized. i hope that the new government will continue to cooperate with the european union and nato, and i hope that the european union's relations with georgia will remain strong in the future. a good example for emerging democracies: in georgia, both sides - the position and the opposition - wanted the elections to be transparent, and this has produced good results, but unfortunately this is not always the case.
author. − mr president, today we are discussing the case of malala yousafzai, a 14-year-old girl from the swat valley in pakistan who, on 9 october, on her way to school, was shot in the head and neck and severely wounded. of course we, the european parliament, stand firmly behind malala and her family. that is clearly expressed in our resolution. tehrik-i-taliban have claimed responsibility for the attack. furthermore, they have issued a statement to the effect that they would attempt to kill malala yousafzai again if she recovers from her injuries. women and girls continue to become victims of domestic violence, trafficking and forced marriages and are being traded in the settlement of disputes. the perpetrators of violence against women and girls in pakistan remain unprosecuted. my belief is that, wherever children become a target of military attacks and this is tolerated by the leadership of the country, that regime and that nation do not have a future. children should go to school. children should be better educated than their parents, and if their fathers, uncles or older brothers prevent children from enjoying even their very basic rights, such as the right to education, it is lamentable.
i voted for this resolution. parliamentary elections in georgia have shown that georgia has passed the democratic test. the elections were indeed well organised, transparent, and did not focus on minor irregularities. president saakashvili has shown that he is a politician who values democracy and the will of the people. it was very important at a time of great stress. the former opposition will have to learn to respect the opponent, i am talking about when the opposition leader b. ivanishvili after the elections immediately offered the resignation of the president of georgia. the most important thing is that the european union continues to pay close attention to georgia and that its new government maintains the reform momentum. the eu-georgia relationship could now be the time for the 'for more' principle. i was part of the close monitoring of this election and i saw the heated atmosphere. certain threats from the opposition to people who were going to vote for someone other than their political force did indeed raise a certain amount of mistrust. i hope that these cases are solved and that the european union should also take note of this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement, which will promote energy efficiency in stationery. energy star is a program developed by the u.s. environmental protection agency to improve the energy efficiency of stationary equipment. in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the harmonisation of energy labelling programmes for stationery. the agreement, which was renewed for a second five-year period in 2006, provides for the creation of the energy star programme in the european union, which will allow for closer eu-us cooperation in the development of product specifications. therefore, this agreement seeks to extend the energy star program for an additional period of five years. i believe that in the next five years, negotiations with the united states should be held to ensure that the principle of mutual recognition of the energy performance of products is applied in the future.
in writing. − i voted for this report because in 2000 the eu and the us signed an agreement on the harmonisation of energy labelling programmes for stationery. this agreement, which was aimed at improving the energy efficiency of stationery, was renewed in 2006 and expired in 2011. the council authorised the commission to negotiate a new agreement to extend the energy star programme for a third additional five-year period. these negotiations were concluded in november 2011 and were recognised by both parties as effective and successful in promoting energy efficiency. in view of this, the conclusion of the agreement is expected to be in favourable circumstances.
in writing. − in order to use resources (in this case energy) efficiently and effectively, it is important that consumers are properly informed about the energy performance of the installations concerned. the energy star labelling used in the usa is sufficiently well known in the european union and it is therefore appropriate to continue to use it. i support the position that an agreement should be reached on the further recognition of this marking.
in writing. − i have endorsed this report, which aims to assess the innovative financial instruments and their use in the financial perspective for 2014-2020. although the eu institutions have developed a number of innovative financial instruments since the early 2000s, combining funding from the union budget with public and/or private funding to increase investment in the union's strategic objectives, public investment in the eu has been steadily declining over the last decade, a trend that was further intensified by the onset of the 2008 financial crisis. the eu will need a huge investment in this decade to achieve the europe 2020 goals, and the potential of these innovative financial instruments must be properly exploited to attract private sector funds. i agree that the wider use of innovative financial instruments should not lead to a reduction in the eu budget, but should help to optimise its use.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that practical experience and technical capacity in the use and management of financial instruments should be strengthened at the level of the managing authorities, financial intermediaries and banks. i agree with the view that the objective of innovative financial instruments is that in the event of market failures or investment shortfalls, they should act as a catalyst. it is important to note that in the field of the union's internal policies, innovative financial instruments are implemented at european level (they are managed by the commission itself or by an institution delegated by it) or at national level in the context of regional and cohesion policy (shared management with the member states). i think it is very important to note that implementing innovative financial instruments requires time, a high level of investment skills, well-designed projects and a thorough knowledge of market mechanisms. these financial instruments can only improve governance if there is an adequate balance between the financial and human resources of the parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provide for the possibility for eu citizens to refer to the european ombudsman when eu institutions or bodies fail to comply with rules or principles binding on them and infringe the principles of good administration. in 2011, the european ombudsman assisted more than 22 000 citizens. there is also a tendency for the number of complaints received to decrease each year. i believe that the effective functioning of the ombudsman and the ability of eu citizens to defend their legitimate claims is one of the main ways of promoting citizens' trust in the european civil service and the eu institutions. i agree that despite the progress made, it is necessary to increase the awareness of eu citizens about the possibilities of defending their rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in 2011 the european ombudsman assisted more than 22 000 citizens, of whom 2 510 lodged complaints, 1284 requested information and 18 274 received advice using the interactive guide of the european ombudsman's website. i think the ombudsman's work is commendable and successful, considering that the european network of ombudsmen comprises more than 90 offices in 32 european countries and that more and more citizens of the european union are starting to use this service. i believe that cooperation should continue to be encouraged, which is geared to the principles of improving the way the eu operates and which seeks to strengthen the european citizens' initiative, allowing people to participate directly in the process of drafting, promoting and enforcing legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman for 2011. as i support the work of the european ombudsman, a brief outline of the core values that eu civil servants should reflect in their behaviour can be an effective way of promoting citizens' trust in the european civil service and the eu institutions it supports. i also agree with the european ombudsman that an institution with a good service culture does not see complaints as a threat but as an opportunity to communicate better and, if a mistake is made, to correct the situation and not to make the same mistakes in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to make financial markets more efficient, resilient and transparent and to better protect investors. the markets in financial instruments directive, which has been in force since november 2007, regulates how banks and investment firms are to provide investment services in financial instruments (brokerage, advisory, transaction, portfolio management, guarantee, etc.) and how traditional exchanges and alternative trading venues (so-called multilateral trading facilities) are to operate. although the implementation of the rdp has encouraged competition for these services and has provided investors with greater choice and lower prices, the financial crisis has revealed certain shortcomings. at the 2009 pittsburgh summit, the g20 agreed on the need to increase transparency and oversight of less regulated markets, including derivatives markets, and to address excessive price volatility in commodity derivatives markets. i agree with the need to create stronger and more efficient market structures, to increase the powers and control of these markets and to ensure better protection of investors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the position set out below, taking into account the recommendations of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, does not contain the amendments and other substantive changes referred to and because, as regards the unchanged provisions of the earlier acts and the necessary codification of those amendments, the proposal seeks only to codify the existing texts without substantially altering them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as the financial crisis has revealed shortcomings in the functioning and transparency of financial markets. the development of financial markets has revealed the need to strengthen the regulatory framework for markets in financial instruments, including trading on over-the-counter markets, by increasing its transparency, by better protecting investors, by enhancing confidence, by taking the unregulated areas into account, by ensuring that supervisory authorities have sufficient powers to carry out their tasks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the amendment of the regulation on markets in financial instruments and on european market infrastructures. the financial crisis in the eu has exposed the lack of transparency in financial markets. in order to enhance transparency and the functioning of the internal market in financial instruments, it is necessary to establish uniform transparency requirements for transactions in markets in financial instruments. detailed rules should also be laid down for the different financial instruments. both proposed documents should provide a legal framework governing the requirements applicable to investment firms, regulated markets and non-eu firms providing investment services or performing investment activities in the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as enhancing transparency is one of the general principles that must be implemented in order to strengthen the financial system, as confirmed in the declaration adopted at the g20 meeting in london on 2 april 2009. in order to enhance transparency and the functioning of the internal market in financial instruments, a new framework is necessary to establish uniform transparency requirements for transactions in markets in financial instruments. this framework should lay down detailed rules applicable to the various financial instruments. the adoption of a regulation ensuring the direct application of the requirements is the most appropriate means of achieving those regulatory objectives and of ensuring a level playing field, thus avoiding the divergent national requirements which may arise from the transposition of a directive. this system should complement the requirements for share-based orders and transactions laid down in directive 2004/39/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 april 2004 on markets in financial instruments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this change because i agree that the recent financial crisis has exposed the lack of transparency in financial markets, which can contribute to negative social and economic impacts. i therefore consider that, in order to achieve greater transparency and a better functioning of the internal market in financial instruments, a new framework is necessary to establish uniform transparency requirements for transactions in financial instruments markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european semester is a six-month period each year during which member states' budgetary and structural policies are reviewed to identify discrepancies and imbalances. during this period, the commission provides governments with policy guidance and recommendations before finalising national budgets. this helps member states to better coordinate their economic policies, taking advantage of the eu's common economic agenda while adapting policies to their national circumstances. i support the proposals put forward to democratize the european semester by involving national parliaments, the social partners and civil society more closely in the process. i welcome the proposed measures to ensure sustainable public finances, reduce macroeconomic imbalances and enhance competitiveness, which will lead to faster growth and more employment. i support calls on the commission to prepare an annual growth review for 2013, based on sound economic data and reflecting the real macroeconomic situation in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the economic, social, financial and sovereign debt crisis is not yet over. the current economic situation has shown the need for better coordination of member states' macroeconomic and budgetary policies with a view to achieving a more integrated and better balanced economic union. i support the proposal that the commission should, on the basis of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies (codified in regulation (ec) no 1466/97), present a framework regulation setting out the tasks (and deadlines) for the member states and the eu institutions in the various stages of the european semester. the european council is committed to bringing together all the levers, instruments and policies to promote smart, sustainable, resource-efficient and job-creating growth by adopting a comprehensive agreement on growth and jobs.
in writing. improving economic governance must be a priority for the european union, which is why i supported this report. the economic dialogue between the member states and the eu institutions needs to be strengthened. in this context, wage increases must be commensurate with productivity. in addition, funds must be reallocated to research and innovation with a view to a europe at the forefront of these fields. finally, it is necessary to ensure the coherence of european economic policy in order to generate sustainable growth for future generations.
in writing. − it is regrettable that even in the face of the crisis, member states have not paid sufficient attention to an economic policy element such as promoting efficient and effective use of resources. unfortunately, once again, a lot of money is lost through inefficient use of available resources. i therefore urge the commission and the member states to pay greater attention to this element in the coordination and monitoring of economic policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-russia trade relations following russia’s accession to the wto even though russia remains a potentially unreliable partner for the eu. the european parliament today welcomed russia’s accession to the world trade organisation, but also underlined that, in order to benefit from this strong potential, it is of the utmost importance that russia fully lives up to the obligations and rules of the wto. as we see already now, russia has not been duly fulfilling all its duties as a member of the organisation since it joined the wto in august this year. even though the accession of russia to the wto is an important step, a comprehensive and binding partnership and cooperation agreement should be the objective for both the eu and russia. the agreement must be based on common values of democracy, human rights and rule of law. in this regard, it is appropriate that on the ninth anniversary of mikhail khodorkovsky’s arrest we raise concerns about russia’s trustworthiness as a trading partner. one way for the kremlin to restore investor confidence in russia would be to commission an independent and impartial inquiry into the yukos case and the subsequent politically-motivated prosecution of mikhail khodorkovsky.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. russia is the eu's third largest trading partner. in 2011, exports to russia accounted for 7% of total eu exports, while imports accounted for 12% of total eu exports. russia's accession to the world trade organisation will facilitate trade between the eu and russia and boost economic growth and job creation in both countries. i believe that the signing of the new partnership and cooperation agreement would be an important next step in contributing to stronger economic ties between the two countries. i support the proposals set out above for the russian federation to fully comply with its wto obligations, to lift unjustified trade bans, temporary tariff increases, protectionist measures and barriers to open and fair trade. i agree that in the eu's negotiations with the russian federation, particular attention should be paid to the openness and transparency of the eu-russia energy market, the reform of the country's customs procedures in the light of international conventions and the abolition of russian double pricing for goods and clarification of the conditions for the establishment of service companies. the commission should ensure that fair rules and procedures for the award of public contracts apply to both parties.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament resolution expressing concern that russia is not complying with its wto commitments as soon as it joins. russia and the eu are important trading partners for each other and, after 18 years of negotiations, the eu welcomed russia's accession to the wto as a new stimulus to strengthen and expand the country's economy. unfortunately, there are examples of unrealistic expectations. one of those exporters of used cars who had a reasonable expectation of higher trade volumes at lower prices, but whose car exports were made even more difficult by russia's introduction of a so-called recycling tax from 1 september than before wto membership energy resources account for the majority of russian exports to the eu, while the eu exports a wide range of products to russia. the european commission has identified 300 products subject to import duties that do not comply with wto obligations. the experience with, for example, the energy charter treaty shows that russia does not avoid selective compliance. in addition, russia has lost a major case involving yukos due to its failure to comply with its obligations in international arbitration. i believe that the european parliament's signal to russia is necessary and timely.
in writing. - after 19 years of negotiations, russia joined the world trade organisation in august. the european union is a strategic trading partner of russia, leading in import and export indicators. russia, meanwhile, has become the eu's second largest importer of goods and the fourth largest exporter of goods to the eu. i voted in favour of this resolution, which applauds russia's membership of the wto. in the medium to long term, this will further boost trade flows between the eu and russia, stimulating economic growth and job creation in both the eu and russia. i also agree with the important provision in the resolution that the implementation of a 'joint action to achieve visa-free travel' is one of the key conditions for more favourable eu-russia trade and investment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on elections in belarus. i deeply regret that that the conduct of parliamentary elections in belarus once again failed to meet many of the basic standards set by the osce, resulting – notwithstanding some minor improvements in the elections’ legal framework – in unfair, non-free, non-transparent and unbalanced consultations, so-called ‘elections’. therefore, the parliament elected in belarus cannot be considered as having a democratic legitimacy. i fully support the position to continue its policy of not recognising the so-called belarusian parliament. it is important to stress that parliamentary elections in belarus were conducted in an atmosphere of persecution of journalists, constant pressure on media and civil society. we condemn the detention of journalists, a tactic obviously aimed at controlling the free flow of information by not allowing journalists to exercise their regular duties, thus violating such basic freedoms as freedom of speech and freedom of thought. belarusian authorities and citizens should know that the european union is ready to renew its relationship with belarus and its people as soon as the belarusian leadership proves its respect for democratic values and basic rights of the belarusian people.
in writing. - it is regrettable that the situation in belarus is not changing. in its resolution, the european parliament notes that the parliamentary elections in belarus have once again failed to meet many of the osce's basic standards and have therefore been unfair, unfree and unclear. since the new parliament of belarus does not rely on democratic legitimacy, the european parliament will continue its policy of non-recognition towards it. at the same time, it is necessary to further strengthen civil society in belarus, including by continuing and strengthening funding for the european humanities university (ehu) in vilnius. this year, the belarusian university celebrates its 20th anniversary, seven of which have been hosted and successfully run in lithuania in order to avoid the persecution of the lukashenka regime. the ehu is one of the most efficient and successful eu-funded projects and, in the absence of any possibility of relocating ehu activities back to minsk, the eu should continue to provide funding for the activities of the university in the new financial perspective.
in writing. − observers from the osce and other international organisations have not recognised any elections held in belarus since 1995 as meeting international standards. the country continues to violate human rights, civil liberties and persecute political opponents. no opposition representative was elected in the september parliamentary elections. the new parliament will be composed of five members from political parties representing the regime only. the opposition forces were unable to unite and develop a common electoral strategy. independent observers reported a high number of infringements. i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses concern at the continuing deterioration of the situation of fundamental human rights and freedoms in belarus. the european parliament has also called for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the abolition of the death penalty. we call on eu countries to continue to support the civil society of belarus in its efforts to create a movement for political, economic and social change in their country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on elections in georgia. i congratulate the georgian people on the significant step they have taken towards the consolidation of democracy in their country. moreover, i welcome the fact that the elections were free and fair and in line with internationally-recognised standards. georgians freely expressed their will during those elections and we have to admit that it shows a very important step towards democratic development of our neighbours. what is important now is the cooperation between political forces. it will require an extra effort from both sides. i hope that the new government and the opposition will concentrate on the further democratic development of their country. in this regard it is important to stress once again that the eu fully supports georgia’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. russia must withdraw its troops from the occupied georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia and this is what we, members of the european parliament, declare in our resolution.
in writing. − georgia has demonstrated once again that it is on the path to democracy by holding parliamentary elections in line with international standards. these elections, which were marred by irregularities, were characterised by intense party competition and active voter participation. the ruling party dominated the media, but the central election commission operated effectively. a large number of observers and an active civil society contributed to the transparent electoral process. i voted in favour of this resolution, which welcomes the action of president saakashvili, who led the party which lost the elections to join the opposition. the president's and the leader of the opposition coalition of political forces 'georgian dream', which won the elections, b. ivanishvili's desire to work together for the good of the country is particularly welcome.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution which signifies a breakthrough in an almost two-year negotiation on a new set of rules governing the jurisdiction of courts in civil and commercial matters. i support the rapporteur in believing that the new regulation will provide conditions for judgments to flow freely within the eu. the procedure will be quicker and simpler for the citizens, thus saving consumers and businesses more than eur 47 million per year. this report falls perfectly in line with the concept of the single market where free movement of goods and resources is already functioning. now it will be ensured that european citizens will have an easy and fast way of exercising their rights as the regulation introduces a number of changes designed to increase legal certainty and facilitate access to justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to recast the council regulation of 22 december 2001 on judicial cooperation in civil matters. although the regulation is working successfully, its application still presents certain difficulties (barriers to the free movement of judgments, complexity of international litigation, etc.) which need to be addressed. i support the proposals outlined above, such as the abolition of the procedure for recognition and enforcement of judgments (exequatur) in another member state, which impedes the free movement of judgments and is time-consuming and costly. the current regulation only applies to cases where the defendant is domiciled in the eu, in line with the proposal to extend the possibility for companies and citizens to sue defendants from third countries in the eu. i also support the provision that the courts of the member states are required to stay proceedings if another court has been seised of the case before it, in order to have it set aside, since it allows the parties to the dispute to refer the case first to a court which has no jurisdiction to hear the dispute and thus to delay the settlement of the dispute. i also agree with the other suggestions made in the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to update the provisions of the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. this regulation is widely recognised as one of the most successful pieces of eu legislation. this regulation aims to ensure that judgments are enforceable not only in the state of origin but also throughout the eu on presentation of an official, authentic copy thereof and a certificate in the prescribed form. this updated version the commission also proposes that the rules of the regulation on jurisdiction be made binding on third-country defendants, thus replacing the existing basis for determining the jurisdiction of the member states in such cases. it is important to note that the commission also proposes to lay down specific rules to avoid parallel proceedings and abuse of litigation tactics. arbitration should continue to be excluded from the scope of the regulation. the new wording of the regulation addresses some of the difficulties encountered in this area over the last decade and is a positive change.
in writing. - i voted for this document. regulation no 44/2001, the predecessor of the brussels convention, is one of the most successful pieces of eu legislation. it has laid the foundations for the european judicial area, has served citizens and businesses well by promoting legal certainty and predictability of decisions, and has been used as a tool for the development of other legislation. the new version of this regulation is therefore of great importance. the proposal does not introduce any substantive changes other than those explicitly identified as such in this proposal and, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of previous legislation and those amendments, the proposal seeks only to codify the existing legislation without changing its substance and with a view to ensuring more effective and faster recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
in writing. − the european union's integration has led it to gradually develop from an economic union of states to a political union with fiscal features. however, the creation of a single legal area is a long process, due to the differences in legal traditions. the adoption by the european parliament today of the regulation on the establishment of jurisdiction and the unification of the rules of judicial review in civil and commercial matters is therefore an important step towards ensuring that eu citizens, residents and businesses save both time and money in the preparation of procedural documents and the enforcement of judicial decisions.
in writing. − i believe that the abolition of the exequatur procedure for all judgments in civil and commercial matters is a very important step towards ensuring that citizens and businesses have the right to have recourse to the courts. in addition, the removal of the bureaucratic exchequer procedure will remove certain existing barriers to international transactions. it is important to note that the proper implementation of the provisions of this regulation will strengthen the single market and reduce the bureaucratic obstacles that cause additional costs and legal uncertainty for businesses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to restrict the access of the general public to chemicals that can be used to make improvised explosive devices, thereby reducing the risk of attacks and increasing the safety of eu citizens. the eu has different legal and illegal measures for trade in such substances, so that access to them in one country may be controlled, but the same substances may be available in another. it is necessary to ensure uniform control of the acquisition of these substances across the eu and to reduce the possibility for terrorists to take advantage of the different security rules in different eu member states. moreover, the same rules across the eu would benefit both producers and retailers. i support the proposals that are being made to allow the purchase of substances in excess of the concentration limits to be restricted to consumers who obtain a licence to purchase the substance. i support the proposal to notify the single national contact centre of transactions relating to the sale of these substances which would be considered 'suspicious' for any reason.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the proposal aims to reduce the number of terrorist attacks and the possibility of legally acquiring substances (or mixtures thereof) which, in high concentrations, can be used to make explosives. it is important to note that the stricter rules on the acquisition of the relevant substances adopted by this regulation will not affect professionals or undertakings who supply these substances for legitimate purposes. it is also emphasised that the human right to privacy will be preserved by allowing the sale of high-concentration substances to the general public only under a lawful end-use licence. in short, the free movement of goods and the protection of human rights will continue to be ensured, while reducing the availability of high-concentration explosives to the general public.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the proposal concerns a regulation aimed at restricting the access of members of the public to certain general-purpose materials which can also be used as precursors to explosives. this is intended to reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks by restricting the access of the general public to widely and lawfully used substances (or mixtures thereof) which, as high-concentration substances, can also be used for the manufacture of explosives and to report suspicious transactions related thereto. the proposal is addressed to wholesalers, retailers and member states, as chemical manufacturers already have control measures and voluntary reporting codes for weapons and precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in place and should not be particularly affected by these proposals. however, the very success of the proposal will depend on the actions of the competent authorities in collecting and sharing the relevant information.
in writing. − to protect against terrorist attacks, reduce their frequency and prevent fragmentation of the internal market, a sufficiently flexible regulatory mechanism must be established to respond to developments in an operational manner. it is noteworthy that terrorists are more likely to use improvised explosive devices, usually made from improvised explosive devices, the precursors of which are freely available in retail stores or online. in this context, i support the proposal to establish effective and proportionate control measures to ensure the safety of citizens. in particular, restrictions should be imposed on the acquisition of widely and lawfully used substances which can also be used as high-concentration substances in the manufacture of explosives. in addition, producers and retailers must take greater responsibility for the goods they trade and ensure that suspicious transactions involving these substances are promptly reported to the relevant authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the adoption of special measures relating to the accession of croatia to the eu, which will allow only croatian nationals to be employed. the proposal aims to reserve some recruitment competitions for croatia until 2018. these calls will be mainly aimed at croatian language specialists, general area administrators and assistants. it is necessary to provide the citizens of the acceding member states with the possibility of being employed by the institutions of the union in order to represent those countries properly in the european union. in view of the urgency of this regulation, which must enter into force at the latest by the date of accession of croatia to the eu, i accept the commission's proposal without amendment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on a regulation which, in view of the accession of croatia, would allow a temporary derogation from the general conditions for recruitment of european union staff in order to allow all eu citizens to be recruited. it is important to note that these legal exceptions were also applied to other european countries that joined in 2004 and 2007. the commission is now proposing to do the same for croatian citizens. croatian workers recruited before this date will have the status of contract workers, at least for the time being, and will only be able to be formally recruited after the actual date of accession.
in writing. - i voted for this document. this document is intended for the accession of croatia to the european union in 2013. it contains a provision derogating from the general rules on the recruitment of staff of the european union. this was done in 2004 and 2007 with the accession of 12 new countries, one of which was lithuania, and it is now proposed to do the same for croatian citizens. the proposed regulation allows reserving certain recruitment competitions for croatian nationals until 2018. firstly, these calls will be mainly aimed at croatian language specialists (translators and interpreters, editors, proofreaders and press officers), as well as administrators and assistants in general areas.
in writing. − i believe that employment opportunities should be open to all eu citizens, regardless of their nationality. we must make every effort to create favourable conditions for affirmative action in favour of acceding states. this will create the right conditions for their representation and ensure that certain institutions have the right to work in croatian. i also support the proposal to set a five-year period during which certain recruitment competitions, in particular for croatian language specialists, would be reserved for croatian nationals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a protocol on the eu's accession to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution caused by exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and subsoil (maritime protocol). the maritime protocol covers exploration and exploitation activities in the mediterranean, permits, requirements, dismantling of outdated installations, use of harmful substances, safety provisions, etc. in order to ensure the safety of operations in the mediterranean and to prevent accidents related to oil spills at sea, it is necessary to strengthen the policy for the sustainable management of oil and gas activities. the consequences of such accidents are not limited to one or two regions, and i therefore support the proposals set out for the european union to promote cooperation at international level in support of maritime safety and response capacities in all countries that have signed the protocol.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as on 27 october 2011 the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol on the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution caused by exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and subsoil (maritime protocol). the need to enhance the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration has been particularly heightened by recent accidents, such as the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico. the planned eu response to the situation includes the commission proposal for a regulation on safety in offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production currently under consideration.
in writing. − i have agreed to this proposal because on 27 october 2011 the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the approval of a protocol on the accession of the european union to the convention for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution from exploration and development (maritime protocol). the protocol for the sea, approved on 14 october 1994, is one of the protocols to the convention for the protection of the mediterranean environment and coastal zone (barcelona convention), signed on 16 february 1976 and amended on 10 june 1995. the eu and all eu mediterranean member states are contracting parties to the barcelona convention, along with 14 other mediterranean countries. the maritime protocol covers a wide range of exploration and exploitation activities in the mediterranean, permit requirements, dismantling of abandoned and unused installations, use and disposal of harmful substances, liability and compensation requirements, coordination of activities at regional level with other parties to the barcelona convention, and provisions on safety and contingency planning and monitoring. the protocol entered into force on 24 march 2011 after it had been ratified by the six contracting parties (albania, tunisia, morocco, libya, cyprus and syria), but the union has not yet signed or ratified it. in accordance with article 218 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union's accession to the protocol is subject to the consent of the european parliament.
in writing. − i support the proposal to call on the eu to join the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and subsoil. we must make every effort to increase the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration. in view of the nature of this activity in the mediterranean and its potential negative consequences for the economy, the ecosystem and the environment, it is necessary to establish a sustainable management policy for this activity. moreover, international cooperation should be strengthened and the necessary safety and environmental standards established. only by acting together and by implementing the commitments made will the protection of the eu's marine environment in the event of major accidents be ensured.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a bilateral fisheries agreement with denmark and greenland. this agreement will cover the purchase of fishing rights for eu vessels and the promotion of a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy. the agreement will ensure that local stocks are not depleted or that greenlandic fishing communities, which will be supported by targeted support programmes, in particular through the creation of new jobs, are not harmed by eu financial compensation. this agreement is in line with the objectives of the eu common fisheries policy and will benefit both the eu and greenland. i agree with the proposals made to give the european parliament greater scrutiny of the implementation of the multiannual support programme for the fisheries sector. the commission should carry out a thorough assessment of the impact of the support measures for the sector on the local economy and coastal communities at the end of the new protocol.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as it gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has given parliament greater powers with regard to fisheries partnership agreements: under article 218 (6) (a) tfeu, parliament must now give its consent to the conclusion of any such agreement. the first fisheries partnership agreement with greenland was concluded in 1985, after greenland's withdrawal from the ec, to allow the community to retain its traditional fishing rights in exchange for an annual financial compensation. under the new protocol, the joint committee will decide on fishing opportunities for the following year, taking into account scientific advice, the precautionary principle, the needs of the fishing industry and, in particular, the minimum quantities to be caught in order to maintain fishing activities in greenland. the contribution from shipowners will be fixed at fixed prices per resource and will replace the previous licensing system. i believe that the positive impact of the sector support measures on the local economy and coastal communities, in particular on job creation in them, will be felt over time and should therefore be assessed in depth by the commission at the end of the new protocol. parliament should also be able to monitor more closely the whole process of implementation of the multiannual support programme for the sector.
in writing. - i voted for this deal. the first fisheries partnership agreement with greenland was concluded in 1985, after greenland's withdrawal from the ec, on the basis that the community could retain its traditional fishing rights in exchange for an annual financial compensation. fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the former home rule government of greenland, signed on 28 june 2007, with the current protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contributions for each year until 31 december 2012. as the current protocol expires on 31 december 2012, i have advocated the renewal of this agreement, as it will address fishing opportunities for subsequent years, taking into account scientific advice, the precautionary principle, the needs of the fishing industry and in particular the minimum quantities to be caught to maintain fishing activities in greenland.
in writing. − the new protocol will further strengthen the partnership between the two countries in the fisheries sector and ensure the implementation of a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy. it will also allow the eu fleet to continue and develop fishing activities in remote fishing areas outside eu waters and to better protect the interests of the european fisheries sector and consumers. attention should be drawn to the importance of ensuring that the fishing opportunities used are based on sound and reliable scientific data and knowledge. it would also create the conditions for a more rational use of fisheries resources from an economic, social and environmental perspective. in this context, it is necessary to monitor on a regular basis the proper use of the compensation paid by the eu and the promotion of sustainable exploitation of greenland's fisheries resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the right of eu citizens resident in a member state but not holding the nationality of that state to stand as candidates in elections to the european parliament. under eu law, any eu citizen residing in a member state of which he is not a national has the right to vote or stand as a candidate in european elections, subject to the same conditions as nationals of the member state concerned. it is necessary to ensure that citizens are not allowed to vote more than once in the european elections or to stand as candidates in two countries in the same election. i support the amendment of directive 93/109 which lays down measures to prohibit this practice. the proposal aims to change the obligation to exchange information between member states on citizens who have been entered on the electoral roll or who have been candidates by simplified means, introducing the necessary safeguards and deterrents. i support the proposal to require candidates to make a formal declaration that they are not denied the right to stand as a candidate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because this council directive provides that citizens of the european union residing in an eu member state of which they are not nationals may stand as candidates in elections to the european parliament. we have made a number of changes to this document to reduce the administrative burden for future candidates and the countries concerned. small but important reforms are expected to be implemented by 2014.
in writing. - i voted for this document. on 12 september 2012, the council approved the text it would like to adopt as a directive amending directive 93/109/ec laying down detailed measures concerning the eligibility of union citizens who are resident in a member state but who are not nationals of that state to stand as candidates in elections to the european parliament. initially, parliament wanted to allow candidates to stand in more than one constituency in the same election. however, due to disagreements within the council on this issue and on the regulation of the right to vote in the member state of residence, no action was taken before the 2009 elections. this time, the council has refused to address the burdensome issue of voter rights and has focused only on reducing the burden on certain national authorities of checking whether a person has been banned from standing as a candidate in elections in their member state. while the new draft document does not meet the more ambitious objectives of the parliament, it does make some minor improvements in terms of administrative convenience for future candidates and the countries concerned.
in writing. - democracy without elections is unthinkable. the eu has a long history of supporting the right to vote and to stand for election, and the eu has a long history of supporting the right to vote and to stand for election. in particular, elections must be democratic and the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections must be adequately guaranteed, in particular as regards the right of eu citizens residing in the member state of which they are not nationals to stand as candidates in elections to the european parliament. it is welcome that the provisions of this directive will reduce the burden on national authorities and create more favourable administrative conditions for future candidates and the states concerned. however, we must make greater efforts to reach a compromise agreement on the reform of the mechanism to avoid double voting.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on strengthening the internal market for crossborder consumer credit and a high level of consumer protection. in order to develop the market for cross-border consumer credit, it is necessary to improve consumer information on the possibility of obtaining consumer credit in another member state and on their rights when concluding such a contract. i support calls for supervisors to require financial institutions to provide consumers with tailored, easily understandable explanations of the risks associated with borrowing foreign currency. it is necessary to monitor the advertising activities of financial institutions in order to avoid the dissemination of misleading information. i agree that the provisions on the calculation of the annual rate of the total cost of credit should be applied in the same way in all eu legal instruments. i agree that the commission should present an evaluation report on the implementation of this directive and its impact on consumer protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because this consumer credit directive has two objectives: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the internal market for crossborder consumer credit. the current situation in europe with regard to core credit entitlements remains almost unchanged, as the use of consumer credit on the international market has actually decreased in recent years. the financial market crisis is thought to have played a role. it is also important to note that the language barrier or the lack of personal contact with financial institutions is more of a barrier to taking out consumer credit on the international market than a legal loophole. moreover, these procedures are most concerned with the legislators and financial institutions individually in the member states, and therefore, although the commission has also provided guidelines explaining the annual common credit rate, these guidelines do not have such binding legal effect.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the document has two objectives: to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to strengthen the internal market in crossborder consumer credit. the opening up of national markets in the important sector of the consumer credit economy, the strengthening of competition, the elimination of different levels of consumer protection and of possible distortions of competition between market participants and the improvement of the internal market are mandatory eu policy objectives and these actions are in the interests of consumers and creditors. improving the market for cross-border consumer credit would create european added value by promoting the internal market. this could therefore be achieved in order to better inform consumers about the possibility of obtaining consumer credit in another member state and about their rights when concluding such a contract.
in writing. - i voted for this document. inadequate pre-contractual information, advertising and mismanagement of contracts are of considerable concern to the member states. the provision of consumer credit to low-income persons in vulnerable groups further exacerbates the social exclusion of citizens or households. the commission also found that the information provided by the banks was not sufficient to ensure that the banks could effectively compete with other banks in the market. for this reason, the dissemination of information on consumer credit should be streamlined, highlighting possible tax changes or the consequences of impending insolvency. while quick credit for small amounts does not fall within the scope of this directive, i support the call for an enhanced level of consumer protection and for consumers of such credit. the irresponsible, mutual approach, the poor financial education of consumers can cause considerable problems for households that have borrowed even very small amounts of money.
in writing. −there is a need to extend the level of consumer protection at both eu and national level. effective consumer protection practices in the field of credit are one of the key conditions for financial stability. i think that special attention should be paid to short-term loans granted by means of various means of communication. in particular, excessive risks must be prevented. it is essential that the consumer is properly informed. he shall be given detailed and easily understandable information on the risks associated with the borrowing. furthermore, legal measures must be taken to ensure that he is not subject to any additional charges after exercising his right of withdrawal. it should be noted that all the objectives of the directive cannot be achieved if it is not properly transposed or implemented in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the social investment pact, which sets the objectives of social investment. targeted social investment would help individuals, families and society to adapt to changing economic conditions and labour market needs. i agree that the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework should provide for adequate budgetary resources to support social investment in the eu. i support calls on the commission to produce a compilation of the social investment indicators of the eu member states to assess the progress made by countries. i agree that social investment should also be supported by the structural funds. investments are needed in education, health and social protection, the labour market and so on.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because the current economic and financial crisis will undoubtedly have a strong long-term impact not only on the european economy, but also on employment indicators, public savings, social investment in europe. many of the recent and current crisis management measures are based on short-term objectives, mainly to restore the sustainability of public finances, which are vital to the eu economy. on the other hand, in these circumstances, we should not ignore the potential negative impact of these austerity measures on employment and competitiveness in europe and should therefore complement them with measures that are favourable to growth and employment, such as targeted social investment. europe faces very serious problems of unemployment, youth unemployment and increasingly difficult transitions from school to the labour market, which threaten to exclude young people from the labour market and, in the long term, to lose human capital. another issue that needs to be addressed urgently is the situation of low-skilled workers, who face a steadily declining demand for labour, and an increasing number of people living in poverty and at risk of social exclusion, due to sectoral changes, the shift to higher technology and high-skill activities. addressing the above challenges through targeted social investment to help individuals, families and society adapt to changing economic conditions and labour market needs is essential to restore sustainable growth. this is an important part of european economic and employment policy and the eu's response to the crisis.
in writing. − i believe that each member state should feel free to sign up to the social investment pact, as young people were the most affected by the economic crisis. in particular, young people must have free access to the labour market and decent working and living conditions. it is essential that the new multiannual financial framework allocates sufficient funds to promote and support social investment in europe. particular attention should be paid to the use of structural funds. in addition, it is necessary to facilitate access to finance for young people and to develop business support programmes for young people in cooperation with the business community.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that agricultural products, and in particular traditional european food products, need to be promoted more not only within the eu but also outside it. i agree with the rapporteur that attention should be paid to traditional european food products which are authentic, varied and delicious to the consumer. the european union must strive to export a sustainable agricultural model and its products. as the example of fairtrade products clearly shows, consumers also buy ideas when choosing what food to buy. i believe that in order to promote the competitiveness of eu agricultural products, ambitious measures must be taken to enhance the prestige of eu agricultural enterprises worldwide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an evaluation and review of the eu's agricultural promotion strategy. it is necessary to improve, simplify and make more consistent the existing measures for the promotion of european agricultural products, thereby increasing agricultural income in the eu, stimulating growth and creating new jobs. the promotion and information policy aims to take advantage of the prospects of global demand developments and to stimulate the interest of third-country consumers in eu products. an effective promotion policy is essential to promote eu agriculture by ensuring food security, sustainable use of natural resources and employment in rural areas. the wide variety of eu products meets very high standards and food safety standards, and it is necessary to improve their image inside and outside the eu and to increase exports. i support the proposal to define a more clear-cut promotion policy, to promote authentic, traditional products. i support the proposal to finance products that are compatible with a sustainable agricultural model and the proposal to withhold funding for measures to restore confidence following food scandals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a document which parliament proposes to clarify the policy on the promotion of agricultural products. historically, incentives were designed to combat agricultural surpluses and later food industry crises. the current annual budget for this measure is slightly over eur 50 million and its beneficiaries are trade and branch organisations. support for the fruit and vegetables and wine sectors is only one of the incentive measures and is recognised as one of the six possible programme objectives. these activities also aim to show pupils firsthand how food is produced and how life is lived in rural areas by inviting them to meet farmers. educational promotion should not only explain the benefits of eating products such as fresh fruit and vegetables, but also the eu's common agricultural policy itself.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy (cap) currently has a wide range of incentives, which have been designed for different reasons and for different beneficiaries. although incentives have historically been designed to combat agricultural surpluses and subsequently food industry crises, it is considered that it is time to define more clearly incentive policies that encourage and reward the production of certain products that are attracted to quality programmes and farming activities that reduce co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are more conducive to maintaining the quality of soil and water resources. the incentive policy should focus as much as possible on funding projects that pursue both of these ambitious and, in many cases, mutually compatible objectives. the objective of increasing farmers' incomes by focusing on products eligible for supply management measures must be pursued as an intrinsic objective. the incentives should focus on traditional european food products that are authentic, varied and delicious to the consumer. vision is important for promoting products both inside and outside the eu. the european union must strive to export a sustainable agricultural model and its products. it is clear that individual projects are obliged to be financed under a rural development policy that can be adapted to specific local conditions, rather than under regulation (ec) no 3/2008, which provides for more complex rules for applicants. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − i have repeatedly stressed that providing consumers with the right information is the first step towards ensuring the quality of food. on the other hand, it is also a step towards a more competitive eu agriculture and the products produced in this sector. i therefore support the provisions that it is necessary to increase the visibility of eu agricultural production and of the producers of this production, but only in a way that does not create the possibility of discriminating against eu producers on the basis of location (with certain exceptions for areas of lower productivity), size or other criteria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because a dynamic and efficient agricultural sector is one of the key factors in increasing agricultural income, creating jobs and stimulating growth. i believe that more attention and resources should be devoted to products that can be subject to supply management measures, as well as to promoting entrepreneurship through the development of enabling strategies, training, and the development of skills, knowledge and abilities. only by working together will we create european added value in the food sector and increase farmers' incomes. it is therefore important that the funds and measures allocated are effective and serve the entrepreneurship of as many small businesses as possible, and in particular farmers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a report on the implementation of the directive on the right of reselling. the purpose of the resale right is to ensure that authors of works of art receive a share of the economic success of their work. the directive aims to harmonise the application of the resale right in the eu. the directive has been promoted to harmonise the conditions for the application of the resale right, i.e. the categories of works of art, the rates of royalties, the maximum threshold for the minimum sale price of a work for the purposes of the resale right (eur 3 000), etc. the report concludes that the quality of administration of resale rights varies across the eu, with higher administrative costs for works of lower value sold. i support the proposals put forward to call on the commission to work more closely with stakeholders to address the administrative difficulties faced by smaller and specialised auctions and dealers and to strengthen the position of the european art market outside the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the commission's draft directive on resale has two objectives: firstly, to ensure that authors of graphic and visual artistic works can enjoy the economic success of their works and, secondly, to harmonise the application of resale law in the eu. while stressing the concern for existing art markets, it is recalled that art market research and statistics do not show that the resale right would have a negative impact on the position of the art market or its turnover. the report calls on the commission to work closely with stakeholders to strengthen the position of the european art market and to address certain problems, such as the so-called cascade effect.
in writing. − i voted in favour because it is known that the art market was valued at usd 10 billion in 2010 and almost usd 12 billion in 2012 and that the resale right represents only 0.03% of this amount. this is an important market from which artists and their heirs should receive a fair return. the directive on the resale right was drawn up with two objectives: firstly, to ensure that authors of graphic and visual artistic works enjoy the economic success of their works together, and secondly, to harmonise the application of the resale right in the eu. i think it is important to actively support local artists, including the youngest artists. the commission must work closely with stakeholders to strengthen the position of the european art market and address issues such as the so-called cascading effect and the administrative difficulties faced by smaller and specialised auctions and dealers.
in writing. − i agree with this report, as an efficient art market ensures that authors are properly valued as creative people, are financially successful and are adequately remunerated. it should be noted that the conditions for the application of the resale right should be uniform throughout the eu. this would effectively contribute to the creation of the common market and remove the existing barriers. i agree with the proposal that more attention should be paid to local artists, with particular attention to young artists. in addition, it is necessary to strengthen the european art market on a global scale and to address some of the challenges.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a recast of rule 70 of the rules of procedure on interinstitutional negotiations during legislative procedures, with a view to making the procedures more efficient, transparent and comprehensive. the proposal aims to incorporate some elements of the code of conduct for the ordinary legislative procedure for negotiations into the binding rules of procedure relating to participation in negotiations and the composition and mandate of the negotiating group. the application of binding rules in the negotiation of legislative procedures would encourage greater accountability and, at the same time, strengthen representative democracy in the eu. i agree with the proposals made on the procedure to be followed to ensure that all decisions to open negotiations at first reading are transparent and legal. a so-called emergency suspension procedure should also be established, under which a simple vote on whether to open negotiations could be held.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it aims to update the european parliament's rules of procedure. the inclusion of negotiating powers in the decision-making procedures is currently being considered. it could be argued that the adoption of the committee's negotiating mandate in plenary would give parliament's position more weight and, in theory, ensure the participation of all members in the decision-making on legislative proposals at an early stage. the general rule would therefore be that all draft decisions containing negotiating powers should be submitted to the plenary and that their adoption in plenary should be based on the pursuit of greater democratic legitimacy. however, there are a number of drawbacks. the choice of full automatic active participation of all members would risk making the procedure excessively complex and thus undermining the efficiency and relative speed associated with the adoption of agreements at first reading. the fact that this decision would increase the workload of the ep's linguists should also be taken into account. procedures should therefore be established which are not only flexible and pragmatic but also classified according to the importance of the legislative cases.
in writing. − in order to ensure that interinstitutional legislative procedures are more efficient, more detailed and function smoothly, i believe it is appropriate to include certain elements of a code of conduct in the binding rules of procedure. furthermore, in order to strengthen representative democracy at european level, it is necessary to implement the principles of openness and democratic accountability properly by laying down certain binding rules. it should be noted that the new rules should in all cases meet the requirements of efficiency and not complicate the process of adopting agreements at first reading.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the reduction of the volume of translations of transcripts of meetings (rule 181). article 181 requires that translations be made in writing into all the official languages of the eu, but this takes about 4 months and is expensive. the audio and video recordings of the meeting are published online in all the official languages immediately after the meeting and meps have the right to request an urgent translation of the extracts from the transcript. i think that in the current economic climate and the commitment of the eu institutions to save, it would be appropriate to abandon this expensive system of translation, which is both written and spoken. since all citizens can follow the meetings either live or from a recording in all eu languages, i believe that the current system of translations needs to be changed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the amendments to the article on the translation of minutes (french: compte rendu in extenso (cre)) included in the report by richard corbett had already been approved by the committee on constitutional affairs in 2007. in line with the commitments made by parliament in its 2012 budget, the transcripts would be prepared as a multilingual document, with the speeches recorded in the original language and translated into english only. it is understood that individual members will continue to have the possibility of requesting translation into the various languages of the parts of the text which interest them.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as the principle of multilingualism must be effectively implemented in the work of all eu institutions, and in particular the european parliament, and all existing obstacles must be removed. attention should be paid to the fact that europe is a place of cultural and linguistic diversity, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that all member states and all citizens of the union have equal opportunities to interact with the eu and equal rights of access to eu legislation. in view of this, i consider that the provision of translations of the transcripts into only one language would create a hierarchy between the official languages of the european union and would not ensure legal certainty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out new rules which will provide for stricter safety and pollution requirements for motorcycles. two- and three-wheelers currently account for about 2% of all road transport but account for about 16% of fatal accidents on european roads. the new rules will also reduce the administrative burden on motorcycle manufacturers, as the new regulation will replace as many as 15 (!) of the existing directives. i agree with the rapporteur that human behaviour and driving conditions have a great influence on safe driving, but it is important to make every effort to address the issue of safety in an appropriate way, taking into account the technical characteristics of the vehicle. we, the members of the european parliament, have therefore voted in favour of making anti-lock braking systems (abs) compulsory on all new motorcycles, except enduro and trials, and of improving the visibility of l-category vehicles by equipping them with automatic headlamp switching.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the harmonisation of the rules which will provide for stricter safety and pollution requirements for new bicycles and tricycles (category l). these vehicles account for 2% of all road transport in the eu, but account for as much as 16% of fatal accidents. the new regulation aims to replace 15 existing directives and will therefore significantly reduce the administrative burden on manufacturers of these devices. the proposals and requirements for these vehicles will contribute to more efficient, safer and cleaner urban mobility. i support the proposals made for the mandatory installation of anti-lock braking systems (abs) on all new motorcycles. i agree that automatic headlamp switching etc. should be fitted to improve the visibility of l-category vehicles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a commission approval regulation on the market surveillance of bicycles, tricycles and quadricycles. some of the currently applicable legal provisions have been found to be too confusing and the aim is to simplify the existing legal framework and to introduce new administrative and technical requirements, such as those concerning environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance for dedicated vehicles. some of the key requirements also relate to reducing emissions, improving road safety, and taking greater account of new available technologies, such as hybrid l-category vehicles. i believe that the proposed requirements would help facilitate the transition of vehicles to more efficient, safer and cleaner urban mobility.
in writing. − in order to ensure the effective functioning of the internal market, i believe that uniform, harmonised rules should apply to two- and three-wheelers throughout the eu, in a way that provides legal certainty and clarity without adversely affecting businesses and, in particular, consumers. the establishment of transparent, simple and consistent rules would simplify legal regulation, close legal loopholes and ensure adequate market surveillance. it would also improve road safety and reduce emissions. however, in order to ensure the proper implementation of the provisions of this regulation, an effective coordination and monitoring mechanism should be established at both union and national level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for harmonised production rules for agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towing equipment). the proposal aims to ensure road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection and to complete the internal market in agricultural and forestry vehicles. simplifying the existing legislation reduces the administrative burden and at the same time promotes the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry vehicle industry. i support the proposals made on the mandatory installation of anti-lock braking systems in certain categories of vehicles, improved braking performance and compatibility of tractors with trailers and towing equipment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the purpose of this proposal is to establish harmonised production rules for agricultural vehicles (tractors, trailers and towing equipment - category u). this is to ensure common rules for the functioning of the internal market and to reconcile them with a high level of road and occupational safety and environmental protection. i think the commission's proposal is important and right because it aims to simplify the existing type of regulation and helps to promote industrial competitiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i welcomed the commission's proposal. since it simplifies the type-approval legislation and thus helps to promote industrial competitiveness. in my view, in order to ensure a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection and to complete the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles, a union-wide approval procedure for all categories of vehicles should be established, taking into account a balanced assessment of benefits and costs, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - i support the draft regulation submitted. in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market and to promote industrial competitiveness, harmonised rules for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles should apply in the eu. the proper implementation of these rules will increase transparency, reduce administrative burden and eliminate the threat of market fragmentation. however, in all cases, the new rules must meet high road safety and environmental requirements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on removing barriers to card, internet and mobile payments. payment instruments are becoming more diverse today, both in the eu and worldwide, but their effectiveness is not yet fully exploited. the markets for card, online and mobile payments in the eu are still fragmented and the methods of such payments vary considerably between member states. i agree with the need to create an eu-wide integrated payment environment to develop more efficient and secure payment instruments. i welcome the proposals made to ensure market access for new service providers, to strengthen payment security and data protection, to ensure transparent and effective pricing of payment services and to strengthen the interaction between service providers. the increased use of this type of payment would contribute to the growth and diversification of e-commerce in europe. i support the proposals listed above to achieve greater competition, more choice and safer payments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the regulation aims to give consumers or businesses access to more convenient, faster, more flexible and more economical payment methods. the creation of a single payments area (sepa) has facilitated bank transfers in 32 european countries, but there are still a number of problems that have not been resolved. for example, surcharges, payment security, multilateral interbank charges (mits) threaten transparency, openness, competitiveness and costs for both traders and consumers. it is also important to note that despite the common standards applicable to member states, the markets for card, internet and mobile payments are still fragmented within the eu. the commission recognises the need to improve the overall level of infrastructure in the future and to seek a level playing field that encourages competitiveness and innovation rather than limiting the development of this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the variety of payment instruments is constantly increasing, both in europe and worldwide. while new mobile and internet payment methods are rapidly emerging, of interest to both consumers and businesses, even the payment card market is still far from being fully exploited and its effectiveness is still far from being fully exploited. the commission published a green paper on the creation of an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments, in which it identifies a number of obstacles to the european payment market being as efficient and open as possible. the benefits of promoting and enhancing card, internet and mobile payments should be recognised in order to provide consumers and businesses with more convenient, secure, faster, more diverse, flexible and cost-effective payment methods. furthermore, the wider use of the payment methods listed is essential if e-commerce is to continue to expand rapidly and ensure its increasing contribution to the gdp of the member states. in this case, the differences between local and cross-border orders should be eliminated and, in the light of the aim of market integration with the payment card, cross-border payments should be as convenient as national payments. however, the market for mobile and online payments is still in its early stages of development and should not be over-regulated, as this could impede the natural development and innovation in this area.
in writing. - in support of the document adopted today, i would like to draw attention to one of its horizontal aspects. - the european parliament's observation that the charges levied on various services are often not justified by the cost of the services provided and are disproportionate. regardless of the nature of the payment, the weaker party (usually the consumer, who usually does not even have access to the standard terms of service) is forced to pay high fees, which can then be used by the service provider to cover losses on unprofitable services. i therefore support calls for the introduction of a requirement to determine the amount of such charges on the basis of the costs incurred alone and i believe that the consumer would only benefit from a cap on the amount of such a charge.
in writing. − i agree with the view expressed in this report, as it will create a secure, transparent and innovative payment environment, while enhancing the competitiveness of the european economy in the world. at present, the integrated european card, internet and mobile payments market is not a single market, but a separate system. a single eu-wide system is needed to protect consumers and traders from additional charges and other negative effects. it should be noted that standardisation and harmonisation of practices would benefit not only traders but also consumers, as they would be able to choose more cost-effective payment methods.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft resolution, which aims to ensure greater transparency and better regulation of the shadow banking sector. inadequate supervision of financial institutions that carry out activities similar to those of banks but fall outside the scope of regulation applicable to banks is detrimental to the stability of the eu financial system. the activities of such institutions could have a positive impact on the economy and stimulate growth (risk would be better distributed outside the traditional banking sector), but they must be carried out in full transparency. i therefore support the proposals put forward to improve the monitoring and regulation of this type of financial institution and to create a central repo database to enable supervisors to have a comprehensive view of the global repo market. i also support the establishment of a 25% equity exposure limit for all non-regulated entities and the establishment of a limit on the number of times a financial product can be securitised
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to monitor shadow banking more closely and to tighten its supervision. shadow banking is recognised as one of several important potential causes and factors that contribute to the financial crisis and can pose a threat to the integrity of the financial system. more and more robust data and analytical capabilities are urgently needed to build a comprehensive picture of shadow banking. the ecb and the esrb should also play an important role in combating shadow banking. given the highly innovative nature of the shadow banking system, its development may create systemic risks that need to be addressed. to do this properly, it is necessary to develop monitoring tools in the future to provide a concrete picture of the entire credit intermediation system.
in writing. − i voted in favour because, despite the changes to the new regulatory framework since the financial crisis, which would make the financial system safer and more sustainable, and perhaps because of them, a very large proportion of credit intermediation activities are still not sufficiently monitored and regulated. such activities include a shadow banking sector through a system of intermediaries, instruments, entities or financial arrangements that performs many functions similar to those performed by banks but which is not subject to their regulation or is subject to a less stringent regulatory regime or addresses issues not related to systemic risk and which does not have access to a central bank liquidity facility or public sector credit guarantees. i agree with the view that there is a need to increase transparency in the interrelationships and activities between traditional banks and non-consolidated institutions and to address these issues from a regulatory perspective. first, more and more robust data and analytical capacity is urgently needed to build a comprehensive picture of shadow banking. one of the key steps towards greater transparency could be the initiative on the repositories of repurchase transactions. second, the compilation of this data picture should make it easy to identify those aspects of the shadow banking system that benefit the real economy and those that pose a systemic risk or concern.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as it is only by limiting the growth of the shadow banking market that europe's financial stability will be ensured. therefore, a better and more stringent monitoring and regulatory framework is necessary to prevent potential systemic risk and other negative effects that shadow banking may have. it should be noted that shadow banking in the eu should act as a useful alternative source of financing. as it is an important instrument to help separate the risk from the banking sector and thus protect taxpayers or the system from potential impact.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the protection of children in the digital world. with the rise of social networking, children are spending more and more time online. according to statistics, young people in europe spend up to 40 hours a week watching television. they are online for 88 minutes a day (fifteen and sixteen year olds - 2 hours) and start using the internet at an average age of nine, and some children - much younger - before they go to school and learn to read. facebook is used by 77% of 15-16 year olds and 38% of 9-12 year olds, who are often not protected from the dangers of the virtual world. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has adopted a resolution calling for a safe internet for children and for action to be taken against illegal and harmful content. we, the members of the european parliament, call on the eu member states and the european commission to present as soon as possible a common position and policy guidelines on the protection of children online and to come forward with a proposal for a single framework directive on children's rights in the digital world, which would include all the provisions of previously adopted eu legislation relating to children. it is particularly important that all eu member states take urgent action to ensure that our young people are protected in the digital world and that they are made aware of the limits of privacy and the dangers of misinterpretation and disclosure of personal data in the online space.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the safety of children on the internet, the fight against illegal and harmful content and the removal of such content. eu countries are not dealing with harmful content online in the same way and in an appropriate way, and there are differences in age rating systems and technical measures to ensure that websites are age-appropriate. i agree that dedicated hotlines should be set up to report harmful or malicious content online and that supporting infrastructure should be improved to remove illegal content more effectively. i agree that there should be more age-based classification systems for online games, codes of conduct and better awareness of this classification amongst retailers, so that children are not able to buy games that are not appropriate for their age. it is necessary to organise awareness campaigns for children on internet safety and to provide training in schools on internet safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because television and the internet occupy an increasingly large part of young people's lives and it is therefore necessary to ensure that quality standards and child protection are in place for content aimed at children. for example, it is estimated that young people between the ages of 9 and 16 use computers for schoolwork and play (100 percent), for watching videos (86 percent), for playing games with others, for downloading and exchanging videos and music (56 percent), and finally for sharing files and visiting virtual chat rooms (23 percent). there is a growing awareness among young people themselves, families, schools, researchers and the public of the quality standards that should be applied to content for children distributed in any form and by any medium (tv, computer, telephone, tablet). the eu's general funding has thus been used to develop appropriate measures, in particular the 'safer internet' programme, which has been successfully implemented in all eu member states and which provides for coordination by 2013, which was positively assessed in the interim report. the continuity of the 'safer internet' programme needs to be ensured and it is necessary to ensure that the responsibility for protecting children from cybercrime is shared by all member states. in order to be more effective, the fight against illegal content and the protection of privacy must be specifically addressed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the issue of the protection of minors in the digital world must be addressed at the regulatory level, by using more effective measures, including self-regulation, i.e. encouraging industry to assume collective responsibility, and at the level of education and training, by training children, parents and teachers to prevent minors from accessing illegal content. one of the key objectives of an effective child protection strategy should be to ensure that all children, young people and parents/guardians have the information and skills to protect themselves using the internet. today, minors have a very free access to the internet and it is essential to help them use it wisely, responsibly and safely. i believe that minors should be protected from the dangers of the digital world in accordance with their age and developmental stage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document and its provision for more regulation of the protection of minors in the digital world at two levels: through industry ownership and through education and training to ensure that minors are protected from harmful content. the information on the internet inevitably has a two-fold impact on minors. on the one hand, the internet as a source of knowledge has an educational function, while on the other hand harmful and inappropriate content can have serious consequences for the development of children and adolescents. the information on sexual content, which is encountered by a significant percentage of underage internet users by chance and accident, is of particular concern. the development of a knowledge-based society based on responsibility should be the guiding principle when it comes to the protection of children and adolescents in the virtual world. at the same time, particular attention should be paid to the child's immediate environment, the family, and its responsibility to develop fully responsible citizens. education and prevention should start in the family. therefore, by fully coordinating prevention, legal, technical and educational measures, member states must implement safer internet programmes, work with industry and civil society groups, ngos, educators, parents to protect children from the dangers of the digital world.
in writing. - i support this resolution. with the rapid development of technology, it is becoming increasingly difficult to adequately protect children in the digital world. this requires the use of self-regulatory and co-regulatory measures. however, it is essential that any measure adopted respects the principles of legal certainty of the rule of law and the rights and legitimate interests of consumers. in addition, prevention and intervention measures must address not only the fight against illegal content but also other issues related to the many threats faced by minors. i think child-safe sites should be labeled accordingly. it is very important that the commission pay more attention to the online marketing of products harmful to young people. i believe that campaigns should be implemented at both national and eu level to provide parents with the information they need to protect their children from illegal, inappropriate and dangerous material.
in writing. − the internet is increasingly penetrating our lives, becoming an integral part of our daily lives, even for minors. we must educate children to browse the digital world responsibly, and we must also strengthen online safety measures for minors. we need to do more to limit harmful content on the internet, advertising. after all, the younger generation is more vulnerable, more easily manipulated. i voted in favour of this report because it encourages greater involvement of parents, schools and the public in discussions on the protection of children's rights online. the communication sets the context for safe and responsible internet use by minors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on creating a favourable environment for social enterprises in the eu. social enterprises supply goods and services in the normal way for business, but use the surplus primarily for social purposes. since the primary objective of social enterprises is to have a social impact rather than to make a profit, the european commission and the member states should ensure that these enterprises are not placed at a disadvantage compared to other types of enterprises. social enterprises contribute to smart growth and promote social and economic transformation. i support the establishment of a regulatory framework for solidarity investment funds at eu level to facilitate access to financial markets for social enterprises. i also agree with the need to improve access to micro-credit for businesses and to facilitate access to start-up, growth and development finance for social enterprises. i support the proposals for the creation of a quality label for social enterprises to improve their visibility. i believe that there is a need to increase the awareness of social entrepreneurs of the eu programmes from which they can benefit.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because one of the key objectives for the future of the eu is a well-developed so-called social enterprise. i think there is a constant increase in the need for social services, for example in health care and nursing. europe is also pursuing economic growth to increase global competitiveness by unlocking the potential for new jobs, which are projected to be concentrated in the 'green' and 'white' economies. it is important to emphasise that, unlike many other sectors of the economy, social enterprises require additional funding instruments. in other words, i believe that in order to promote social enterprise in the eu, an environment must be created for innovation capacity and experimentation, the success or failure of which would be assessed by the eu institutions together with the member states over a given period of time. social entrepreneurship, understood as a common public interest or otherwise a benefit to society, is precisely the eu's flagship initiative that would enable new infrastructures to be created and new innovative ideas to emerge, and should therefore be strongly encouraged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because, unlike many other sectors of the economy, social enterprises require additional funding. appropriate measures at national and regional level must be adopted as soon as possible following commission initiatives. in order to allow the rapid development of social enterprises, together with targeted support for individuals and organisations active in this field, this european parliament report aims to establish the general conditions for the new stage of the european social economy, as precise and clear as possible, while at the same time being open and providing new opportunities. the communication also takes the view that this new phase should be characterised by a high capacity for innovation, accompanied by experiments whose success or failure would be assessed by the eu institutions together with the member states within a given forecast period. concrete conclusions will then have to be drawn on the appropriate improvement actions and measures that will allow the social enterprise to continue to develop effectively in the long term. in short, the regulatory framework and action plans must preserve diversity and abundance where it exists and create it where it does not. the commission's proposed main instruments, such as the establishment of a panorama of social enterprises in europe, the creation of a certification database or a large-scale information platform for mutual learning, can provide a useful basis for this. the creation of a specific quality label for social enterprises should also be of great benefit for further development.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. i agree with the position expressed in the document on support and promotion of social enterprises. companies that aim to have a positive social impact on different segments of society, by stripping away the social purpose and management of enterprises, should be encouraged through various support programmes. with particular attention to improving the fiscal and legal environment, ensuring support from eu funds at all levels from national to eu. on the other hand, i fully support the requirements for such companies to involve volunteers in activities, thus creating opportunities for young people to gain work experience at the beginning of their careers, to promote the implementation of the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme and similar support and advisory programmes. the development of social enterprises in the member states, as in my country of lithuania, can make a significant contribution to the implementation of the eu's overall growth strategy, europe 2020, and to the inclusion of people at social risk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because social enterprises play an important role in promoting social innovation and therefore need to create a favourable economic and regulatory environment in the social innovation economy. in order to increase the visibility of these enterprises, in particular, the financial needs of social enterprises must be properly assessed, access to financial markets facilitated and appropriate funding allocated at local, regional, national and eu level. they must also be properly integrated into action plans for employment and social inclusion. only the establishment of an appropriate support mechanism will ensure the growth and development of social enterprises. they will be able to become financially independent, engage in commercial activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution. the european parliament stresses that to put the eu firmly on the road to financial stability and economic recovery, cosmetic touches are not sufficient. the european parliament wants a thorough overhaul of the economic and monetary union (emu) in all its aspects. i agree with the rapporteur that in order to achieve a stronger architecture, the so-called four pillars of the emu (its financial, budgetary, economic and democratic legs) must be reinforced. it is essential that democratic control matches the pace of reforms and, across the board, the european parliament, as the institution that represents all citizens, should play a key role. we, members of the european parliament, underlined that the goals of a stronger economic union should be sustainable economic growth, more jobs and greater social cohesion. completing the internal market, implementing existing internal market law, implementing the 2020 strategy for growth and jobs and a targeted use of european budgets are key issues which should be put in place without further delay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on european economic and monetary union. in order to strengthen the eu's economic and monetary policy powers, it is important to increase the democratic accountability of the union and, if necessary, to amend the eu treaties, and to integrate the governance of the european monetary union into the eu institutional framework. i support the proposals put forward for the establishment of a european 'ministry of finance' headed by an eu finance minister, accountable to the european parliament, and for the right of the ep to approve the chairmen of the eu banking supervision mechanism and the european stability mechanism. it is also important to strengthen the role of the european commissioner responsible for economic and monetary affairs and his accountability to the ep. i support the call for member states to be given more responsibility for the preparation of national fiscal policy and economic reform plans. the commission should present legislation without delay on closer tax cooperation between eu member states, reform of the european social pact and the eu's own budgetary resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that economic and monetary union is a means of achieving the objectives of the union and its member states, in particular the objectives of balanced and sustainable growth and a high level of employment. indeed, it can be said that the past year has been a challenging one for the european union as a whole. i am referring to the economic, financial and banking crises that have occurred, which, together with macroeconomic imbalances, have had a rapid and direct negative impact on the social and economic development of the euro area and the union as a whole. this has affected all countries, with unemployment in the eu-27 rising from 7% to 10.4% between 2008 and mid-2012, with 25 million more unemployed, more than one in five young people out of work (22%) and youth unemployment rates now exceeding 50% in some member states. the eu is at a crossroads and a clear choice must be made either to combine the eu's existing strengths and ensure that the union remains strong and based on values and solidarity in a globalised world in the future, or to step back and allow itself to be passively adapted to globalisation. the response to the euro crisis is complex, but it requires continuous efforts. the need for closer european integration, based on accountability, democratic legitimacy and citizens' consent, is clearer than ever.
in writing. − effective economic and social cohesion is the basis for a strong and genuine economic and monetary union. this is a guarantee of balanced and sustainable growth and a high level of employment. however, it is essential to safeguard democracy and ensure proper citizen participation in order to achieve these objectives. national sovereignty must be protected and the rights of national parliaments strengthened, while preventing the transfer of powers from national institutions to eu supranational institutions. i support the proposal to preserve the right of peoples to express their will and to remove any restrictions on their right to decide on their own economic policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a 2011 evaluation of the activities of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the eu joint parliamentary assembly. objective of the joint parliamentary assembly eu-acp dialogue on the cotonou partnership agreement and its implementation and on economic partnership agreements. an important part of the jpa's work is the promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the acp states. i support the proposals to encourage greater participation of meps in the meetings and activities of the epa committee and the calls for a clearer definition of the responsibilities of the european external action service and the commission in relation to the implementation of the cotonou partnership agreement. the commission should provide updates on the status of ratification of this agreement, which was revised in 2010. the role and relationship of the different groups (acp, african union, ldcs, g-77, regional groups) needs to be clarified in the discussions on the future of the acp beyond 2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it presents parliament's assessment of the activities of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) and the eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) in 2011. ten resolutions and two declarations were adopted in 2011. at the assembly in hungary, in addition to the reports drawn up by the three standing committees on democracy and constitutional order, budget support and water pollution, the jha adopted resolutions on democratic change in north africa and the middle east and the situation in côte d'ivoire. the practical workshops on climate change and innovation in agriculture, education and development were particularly well received and attracted a great deal of interest. the toge session adopted three resolutions, which are contained in the reports of the standing committees on the treaty of lisbon, debt and disabled people. the session also adopted resolutions on the food crisis in the horn of africa and the impact of the arab spring on neighbouring countries in sub-saharan africa. the two presidents also adopted declarations on human rights in eritrea and the security situation in somalia. the practical seminars in togo on energy, malaria and youth unemployment also provided an opportunity to discuss in depth important regional issues. finally, in 2011, the working group on the working methods of the jpa, which was set up to increase the political role of the jpa and improve its efficiency, completed its work and submitted the first set of amendments to the rules of procedure, which were adopted in budapest.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document as the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) continued to facilitate an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue between the european union and the acp countries on the cotonou partnership agreement and its implementation and on the economic partnership agreements in 2011. however, more attention should be paid to the results of the acp-eu jpa and to ensuring consistency between its activities and those of the european parliament. it is essential to involve parliaments in the democratic process and in national development strategies, as they play a key role in defining, monitoring and controlling development policy. the commission should provide the acp parliaments with all available information and help them exercise democratic control, in particular by increasing capacity. there is a need for enhanced, genuine and comprehensive political dialogue on human rights.
in writing. − i believe that more attention should be paid to the joint activities of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and to the development of an open, democratic and comprehensive dialogue. in particular, greater attention must be paid to human rights issues and more information and assistance to acp parliaments in the exercise of democratic control. i also believe that meps should be more actively involved in the work of the eu joint parliamentary assembly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand we are told that shale gas can bring about an energy revolution because its resources are large enough and necessary for the needs of the economy. on the other hand, we are told that the effects of their extraction are poorly understood, that they pose a danger to public health, that they can harm both present and future generations. in fact, the information is too contradictory and to rely solely on the good or bad examples of the united states that reach us is too questionable. and until there is a firm belief that this technology is safe enough and will not cause a very large and painful environmental disaster, then to talk about extracting such gas in europe, in my opinion, is too bold. i would say that we should look for ways of extracting shale gas without harming the environment. this would be a first-rate challenge for european scientists, and i think they would be able to cope with it very well.
a few years ago, shale gas was still considered exotic in europe. today, shale gas is being talked about around the world as a technology that could change the global energy balance within a few years. today in the european parliament we are discussing two aspects of shale gas extraction: the economic and the environmental. my head, we need to weigh these sides responsibly. i think the present situation is unsatisfactory because, firstly, some countries are even banning the exploration of shale gas, which is not based on fear of possible ecological disasters. second, the activity is almost entirely unregulated. environmental regulation is certainly not enough. the very fact that the impact on europe has not been fully explored. i therefore support the european parliament's view that environmental impact must be assessed in as much detail as possible and that the european union must be prepared to respond as effectively as possible. such surveys should be carried out on a regular basis before, during and after extraction operations. the accumulated practice and research data shall be reviewed on a regular basis and action taken if it appears that the same or different legal safeguards are necessary. we also need to review the provisions governing public consultation. on the other hand, shale gas extraction must not become an industry with exclusive regulation. i am convinced that there is no need to create new administrative rules that burden businesses with disproportionate and unnecessary requirements and restrictions. there are many people in my country who say that even renewable energy is not environmentally friendly, that it poses certain problems, and i think there is no human activity that does not affect the environment in one way or another. but i think shale gas is the way to energy independence and diversification.
i would like to draw attention to two very important and specific aspects of the multiannual financial framework: financing the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant and support for the baltic farmers. as we sit here today in strasbourg, the baltic farmers, who have gathered in brussels for a rally, say that enough is enough, enough is enough of making fools of us by giving us four times less pay. how long can this go on? all the resolutions and directives talk about a level playing field, so let's take it and get it done. lithuania committed to shut down the nuclear power plant and has done so. the european union has committed itself to financing its closure, but has not done so to the full. the commission notes that the measures in question are not imputable to the state, but to the state and the state-owned banks. i would like to emphasise that this is a clear departure from the provisions of the accession treaty and protocol 4 thereto. legally, this can be seen as a breach of the accession treaty.
in writing. as a member of parliament elected by the citizens of lithuania, i find it very difficult to take a positive view of the draft council conclusions presented by the president of the european council, mr van rompuy, last week and the proposed allocation of funds in the next financial perspective. the most painful and perhaps most damaging element of such a proposal is the reduction in the amount of funds for cohesion policy. such a proposal is totally unacceptable, since it would be particularly damaging to the european union as a family of states in the future. the essence of cohesion policy is to bring all the eu regions to the same level of development, and the council's proposal to reduce this funding, which would particularly affect the currently least developed regions, completely negates the essence of cohesion policy and would create the conditions for a so-called two-speed europe. the second proposal, which has been the subject of criticism, is the reduction in agricultural expenditure. the council's proposal to extend the transitional periods during which direct payments will have to be uniform across the eu is particularly difficult to accept. finally, the funds currently envisaged by the council for the closure of the three nuclear power plants and specifically the closure of the lithuanian npp. firstly, the funds available are totally insufficient to close the facility. second, the suspension of the aid in 2017 is totally unacceptable. the support must be provided for at least the entire duration of the new financial perspective. otherwise, lithuania would be placed under an unreasonably high burden that it would be unable to finance from its national budget and other vital areas of state administration would be affected.
in writing. − i congratulate the commissioner-designate on coming to work at a difficult time and on receiving a generous portfolio of unfinished work. i hope that the new commissioner for health will continue the work he has started and will be as principled as his predecessor on both food safety and public health. i hope that the promised legislation in these areas will also be presented soon (i am talking in particular about the regulation of novel foods and tobacco products).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to allocate eur 670 million from the eu solidarity fund to the emilia-romagna region of italy. on 20 and 29 may 2012, two major earthquakes struck the region, killing 27 people and injuring 350 others, with another 45,000 people evacuated. this record-breaking allocation from the solidarity fund is intended to cover the costs of restoring critical infrastructure, restoring emergency services and protecting the cultural heritage of the region. the priority remains the housing of the thousands of people in the region who have been left homeless. the solidarity fund was set up in the wake of the 2002 floods in central europe. since then, the fund has been used to help victims of 49 natural disasters - floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms and droughts. i support the calls made to all stakeholders in the member states to further improve the coordination of the use of the fund's resources in the future with a view to their early absorption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of draft amending budget no 5/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012 (presented by the commission on 19 september 2012), i believe it is essential that the essf provide financial assistance to victims of natural disasters as soon as possible. it is important to note that draft amending budget no 5/2012 provides for the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (hereinafter 'essf') to mobilise eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations relating to a series of earthquakes that occurred in the emilia-romagna region of italy in may 2012. this financial assistance will help to resolve an important and urgent case for the member state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because draft amending budget no 5/2012 provides for the mobilisation of the commitment and payment appropriations of eur 670 192 359 from the eu solidarity fund (esf) in connection with the series of earthquakes that occurred in the emilia-romagna region of italy in may 2012. it is of the utmost importance that the essf provide financial assistance to the victims of natural disasters quickly, and i therefore welcome the fact that the italian authorities submitted an application for financial assistance from the essf in a timely manner, as well as the fact that the commission submitted a proposal for the mobilisation of essf funds in a timely manner.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it is essential to ensure that such crucial decisions are not delayed. the union's assistance must be provided in an efficient and prompt manner. in this context, the council should be more constructive. natural disasters occur unexpectedly and their consequences must be addressed quickly, as delays can have extremely harmful negative consequences.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to allocate eur 670 million from the eu solidarity fund to the emilia-romagna region of italy. on 20 and 29 may 2012, two major earthquakes struck the region, killing 27 people and injuring 350 others, with another 45,000 people evacuated. this record-breaking allocation from the solidarity fund is intended to cover the costs of restoring critical infrastructure, restoring emergency services and protecting the cultural heritage of the region. the priority remains the housing of the thousands of people in the region who have been left homeless. the solidarity fund was set up in the wake of the 2002 floods in central europe. since then, the fund has been used to help victims of 49 natural disasters - floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms and droughts. i support the calls made to all stakeholders in the member states to further improve the coordination of the use of the fund's resources in the future with a view to their early absorption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, i support the decision attached to this resolution. the interinstitutional agreement provides for the possibility to mobilise the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. italy has submitted an application to mobilise the fund, following a disaster caused by a series of earthquakes, and at the request of the italian authorities, an amount of eur 670 192 359 is hereby committed in commitment and payment appropriations, which is necessary for the italian regions in this case and does not exceed the annual ceiling set by the eu.
in writing. - i said yes to this proposal. italy submitted an application for assistance from the fund following a series of earthquakes in may 2012. these earthquakes have affected many regions of northern italy and caused significant damage in many towns and villages, especially those near the epicentre, mainly in the provinces of modena and ferrara in the emilia-romagna region. the earthquakes killed 27 people, injured an estimated 350 people, and forced the evacuation of over 45,000 people. serious and widespread damage has been caused to buildings, infrastructure, enterprises, industrial installations, agriculture and important cultural heritage. since this disaster is considered to be a major natural disaster with significant damage, i have voted in favour of mobilising the solidarity fund for italy.
in writing. - i support this resolution on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for italian needs. it should be noted that italy has suffered serious and widespread damage as a result of the earthquakes, which requires the provision of the necessary assistance more quickly and effectively. the eu solidarity fund is thus a form of pan-european solidarity for the people of italy affected by the disaster.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the implementation of the agreements on tariff concessions for poultrymeat signed in june 2012 between the eu and brazil and between the eu and thailand. in 2007, the eu experienced an unprecedented increase in imports of processed poultrymeat, which adversely affected the eu poultrymeat industry, as foreign exporters took advantage of a certain margin of safety. i agree with the need to address this shortcoming and to prevent customs evasion. under these agreements, the eu will compensate for the increase in the rate of the mandatory duty by allowing the opening of tariff quotas and allocating a large part of them to brazil and thailand. i support the outlined coordination actions aimed at reaching a solution acceptable to both trading partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as, in the light of rule 55 of the rules of procedure and the report of the committee on international trade (a7-0351/2012), in order to implement the amendments to the agreements on concessions in the poultry sector signed in june 2012 between the european union and brazil and between the european union and thailand, it is necessary to adopt an implementing regulation amending regulation (eec) no 2658/87. the implementation of the agreements provides for an increase in the number of cases of over-utilisation of the quota for prepared poultrymeat products and for the opening of a tariff quota to brazil, thailand and other wto members. the aim is to reach a mutually acceptable solution and to agree on the appropriate regulatory action to increase the level of protection for the eu poultrymeat industry.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the amendment of the provisions of the agreements on concessions for poultrymeat signed between the european union and brazil and between the european union and thailand in june 2012 requires the adoption of an implementing regulation amending regulation (eec) no 2658/87. under article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994, a mutually agreed adjustment of the increase in the rate of the mandatory duties was reached. i have endorsed the appropriate regulatory actions aimed at reaching a mutually acceptable solution. in addition, in order to avoid the impact of the change in import requirements on the eu poultrymeat industry, a higher level of protection is necessary. at the same time, the eu's trading partners must be compensated accordingly through the application of tariff quotas.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in order to maintain a strong, long-term trading relationship, it is essential that mutually beneficial solutions are adopted and existing obstacles are removed. it is important to note that trade policy can and must help create jobs and promote growth and sustainable development. in order to avoid the impact of the change in import requirements on the eu poultrymeat industry, i believe that it is appropriate to increase the level of protection and to compensate trade partners for the losses incurred by the tariff quotas accordingly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the tariff quotas for timber exported from russia to the eu. under this agreement, the eu will reduce customs duties on timber from russia. this will help wood processing companies to obtain timber from russia, which is the largest exporter to the eu (timber imports from russia account for 60% of all imports to the eu), at a cheaper price. another important aspect of this agreement with russia is the protection of timber importers. the commission notes that the russian authorities have not provided any evidence that the export tax on wood is being increased. the eu is also committed to the development of a common defence policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the tariff quotas for timber exported from russia to the eu. in recent decades, russia has supplied 60% of all timber imported into the eu. the new eu-russia agreement provides for significantly lower russian timber export duties to the eu, which will affect some russian timber (pine, fir). the eu has a strong interest in tariff quotas which give preference to russian timber exports, with much lower duties under the quota than at present. the agreement lays down rules for the management of export tariff quotas and provides for the cooperation between the competent authorities of the eu and the russian government necessary for the proper functioning of the system. i agree that this agreement should help to avoid a situation where russia unilaterally increases export duties, as this has a very negative impact on eu producers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as, in the light of articles 294 (2) and 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which the commission submitted the proposal to parliament (c7-0215/2012), the european parliament adopted the commission proposal by a joint resolution. if the question is substantially amended (or reworded) again in the future, it will be referred back to parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because imports of raw wood are important for the union's economy and the russian federation is an important supplier of raw wood to the union, and the commission has negotiated with the russian federation commitments to reduce or eliminate duties on raw wood exports. the russian federation, in preparation for accession to the world trade organisation (wto), has agreed to reduce the export duty rates currently applied to raw wood products. russia has agreed to open tariff quotas and to allocate a certain part of the quotas to the european union for the export of certain wood products, in particular certain conifers (i.e. fir and pine). the tariff quotas will result in significantly lower export duties.
in writing. - i support this resolution because the tariff quotas will give preference to wood exports through lower duties. russia is a very important supplier of raw wood to the european union and, in preparation for wto accession, it has agreed to reduce the export duty rates for raw wood products. it should be noted that the tariff quota will be subject to significantly reduced export duties once this agreement enters into force. in addition, the eu will manage the quantities of the eu part of the tariff quotas itself and russia will issue export licences on the basis of import documents issued by the eu.
in writing. − following russia's accession to the world trade organisation, negotiations were launched on trade quotas and tariff reductions. during the negotiations, the russian federation agreed to reduce the tariff quotas for exported wood raw material products that have been established so far. the communication summarises the provisions under which eu-russia trade relations in timber and quota reductions in this area will be implemented. i voted in favour of this report because it redefines the eu's trade relationship with russia in timber and sets a precedent for further cooperation based on mutual respect.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the implementation of the agreements on tariff concessions for poultrymeat signed in june 2012 between the eu and brazil and between the eu and thailand. in 2007, the eu experienced an unprecedented increase in imports of processed poultrymeat, which adversely affected the eu poultrymeat industry, as foreign exporters took advantage of a certain margin of safety. i agree with the need to address this shortcoming and to prevent customs evasion. under these agreements, the eu will compensate for the increase in the rate of the mandatory duty by opening tariff quotas and allocating a large part of them to brazil and thailand. i support the outlined coordination actions aimed at reaching a solution acceptable to both trading partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, having regard to rule 81 and rule 90 (7) of the rules of procedure, the recommendations of the international trade committee and the draft amendment to the concessions for processed poultry in the eu list annexed to gatt 1994 (07885/2012) of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union, brazil and thailand pursuant to article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt 1994), in favour of the conclusion of the agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as it is necessary to increase the level of protection in order to close the loophole and prevent customs evasion. the eu's trading partners and all wto members should also be compensated accordingly by allowing the opening of tariff quotas. following the conclusion of the negotiations on poultrymeat under article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (1994 gatt) in 2007, the european union saw an incredible increase in imports of processed poultrymeat. foreign exporters appear to have exploited a certain loophole in the level of protection by reducing the weight of chicken or by-products in chicken products to less than 57%, which is the minimum level allowed under the tariff line. similar effects of the amendments can be expected in the future under other tariff lines applicable to processed poultry of other species. as the increase in imports of prepared poultrymeat has had a negative impact on the eu poultrymeat industry, the council authorised the commission to negotiate the modification of the concessions for poultrymeat under chapter 16 of the combined nomenclature (cn).
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution tabled. in order to maintain a sustainable and long-term trading relationship, it is essential that a mutually acceptable solution between trading partners is constantly pursued. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level, and that those consultations be conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the interinstitutional agreement of 13 april 2016 on better law-making. in addition, an efficient compensation mechanism should be established to allow the tariff quotas to be opened in certain specific cases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as, in the light of the eu-state of israel agreements in the form of an exchange of letters, the recommendation of the committee on international trade (a7-0318/2012) and rule 81 and rule 90 (7) of the rules of procedure, we hereby instruct the president, by joint resolution, to forward parliament's position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and the state of israel.
in writing. - i voted yes. the first eu-israel association agreement was concluded in 1995. in 2005, it was decided to open negotiations with some mediterranean countries on the further liberalisation of trade in agricultural products and processed agricultural products and fish and fishery products. negotiations with israel were concluded in 2008 and the agreement was concluded in 2010. these changes are more technical in nature, related to the implementation of the agreement, but are essential to open up greater opportunities for mutually beneficial eu-israel cooperation, new trade opportunities for eu companies in the fisheries and agricultural sectors.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution tabled. it is essential to remove as soon as possible the obstacles which prevent the development of liberalised bilateral trade in agricultural products and processed agricultural products. i believe that the envisaged technical amendments will adequately address the existing problems and that the obligations for market access for agricultural products and processed agricultural products under the previous agreements will continue to be systematically respected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the protocol to the agreement between the european union and the russian federation on the administration of tariff quotas is an important achievement for the stability and reliability of trade relations with russia. in this case, in the process of accession to the world trade organisation, the russian federation agreed to reduce the export duty rates applicable to wood products etc. this bilateral agreement between the eu and the russian federation defines the general terms and conditions for implementing the share of tariff quotas agreed by both parties for the purpose of managing their respective share of the quotas and, if necessary, for the purpose of cooperating (including consultation and dispute settlement procedures). i believe that this decision is important not only to avoid an increase in the tariffs on russian timber exports, but also to ensure more guarantees and better trading conditions for many eu producers.
in writing. − i have endorsed the document because, in the process of joining the wto, the russian federation has agreed to reduce its current export duty rates on raw materials, including wood products. russia has introduced tariff quotas for certain wood species, namely certain species of coniferous wood. the lower export duties from russia are applied to quantities exported under quotas and the higher duties (not to mention excessive duties) are applied to products exported under quotas. i believe that the protocol on the administration of tariff quotas is an important achievement in the direction of stability and reliability in trade relations. the eu has an active interest in this agreement as it allows for a significant improvement in the supply of timber from russia. the agreement provides for greater predictability and better trading conditions.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as the agreement reached is a vital guarantee of stable and reliable trade relations. the supply of timber from russia and the trading conditions will also be improved. it should be noted that the management of the eu third country export quota is an innovation that lays the foundations for the future operation of this system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the tariff quotas for timber exported from russia to the eu. in recent decades, russia has supplied 60% of all timber imported into the eu. the new eu-russia agreement provides for significantly lower russian timber export duties to the eu, which will benefit certain types of russian timber (each, pine). the eu has a strong interest in tariff quotas which give preference to russian timber exports, with much lower duties under the quota than at present. the agreement lays down rules for the management of export tariff quotas and provides for the cooperation between the competent authorities of the eu and the russian government necessary for the proper functioning of the system. i agree that this agreement should help to avoid a situation where russia unilaterally increases export duties, as this has a very negative impact on eu producers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as in an enlarged europe with 27 member states we need to reinforce security. i believe that the sis ii will provide more rigour in border controls, improve biometric data and allow a more efficient use of data through their possible interconnections. moreover, that with the sis ii, individual rights will be better and more rigorously protected and data protection rules will be improved in order to avoid errors such as unjustified arrests or refusals at borders. i support the call of the european parliament on eu member states, and in particular finland, to assume their responsibilities in this process and prevent further delays in sis ii, asking the council and commission what they intend to do to overcome this setback, so that sis ii can come into force as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii) not only provides for greater security and more advanced information use in the context of linked crossings, but also for a new type of references and new functionalities. the council and the european parliament have agreed by consensus that the schengen area, which is rightly regarded as the european foundation (i.e. an area without borders and an area of freedom, security and justice for the security of the union), will be implemented and applied without delay to the member states participating in the implementation of sis 1+, from a date to be fixed by the council, acting unanimously on behalf of the governments of the member states representing the member states participating in the implementation of sis 1+. the transition of all member states is planned for around the end of march 2013.
in writing. - i voted for this document. parliament wants to move as quickly as possible to the second generation schengen information system and therefore proposes to draw up two separate acts: one with england and ireland and one with all the other eu member states. sis ii is an essential tool for ensuring greater security in the schengen area, for ending cross-border management of the system and for substantially improving data protection and fundamental rights of individuals. therefore, sis ii should enter into force as soon as possible. the proposal is divided into two parts. the division does not change anything with regard to the united kingdom and ireland's participation, but its implementation will lead to the desired more transparent solution.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the second generation schengen information system will provide a higher level of security for the schengen area, data protection and fundamental rights of individuals, as well as enhanced legal certainty. it should be noted that the migration to sis ii is a complex process. in order to ensure a smooth transition and to avoid any gaps in practical supervision, it is important that all responsible authorities are closely involved in the entire transition process. it should also be ensured that member states do not incur additional unnecessary costs. particular attention should also be paid to the establishment of a mechanism for the protection of eu and third-country nationals. in order to avoid any delay in the transition to sis ii, i consider it appropriate to set a final date for the completion of the transition and for the expiry of the regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii) not only provides for greater security and more advanced information use through interlinked alerts, but also for a new type of references and new functionalities. the transition from the currently applicable sis 1+ to sis ii is governed by two legal instruments council regulation (ec) no 1104/2008 established the former first pillar and council decision 2008/839/jha established the former third pillar. the current commission proposal is to reword these two acts into a single act to take account of the abolition of the pillars (com (2012) 81).
in writing. - i voted for this document. the schengen information system (sis) is undoubtedly the most important tool for ensuring the security of the schengen area, which is rightly regarded as the foundation of europe, i.e. an area without borders and an area of freedom, security and justice. the second generation of the schengen information system (sis ii) allows for the upload of new data (primarily biometric data), the use of new types of references and new functions. this will allow for increased security and a more advanced use of information through the use of interlinked alerts. the legal sis ii will apply from the moment the first member state completes the migration process. this will enhance legal certainty and prevent unnecessary expenditure in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the transition from the schengen information system (sis 1+) to the second generation system (sis ii). the sis was created to harmonise the abolition of border controls between the schengen states. its purpose is to maintain public order and public security, including national security. this system facilitates the exchange of information between member states and gives users (police departments, embassies and consulates, migration authorities, etc.) real-time access to the data they need to perform their functions. sis ii is a tool for enhancing the security of the schengen area, for more effective data protection and for ensuring fundamental human rights. the second generation of the schengen information system allows new data to be uploaded, new types of references to be used and new functions to be performed. i support the proposals to ensure effective oversight of the complex transition process and to encourage closer cooperation between the european data protection supervisor and the member states' authorities in implementing this transition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a commission evaluation of the 28th report on the control of the application of eu law (2010). the proper application of eu law by the member states is a fundamental condition for the functioning of the european union, and i therefore support the aim of simplifying its implementation, application and enforcement in the member states. the eu pilot has played a key role in reducing the number of potential infringements of eu law. this system is designed to deal with requests and complaints from citizens and businesses that raise questions about the correct application of eu law. the eu pilot applies when member states need to explain their factual or legal position: they have to propose a solution to address breaches of eu law within a short timeframe. i agree with the suggestion that the system should indicate the rights or safeguards granted to the complainant. the commission should also be more effective in ensuring that member states transpose eu environmental legislation, which is the most infringing, into national law in a timely and appropriate manner. the training of national judges, lawyers, administrative officials and civil servants applying eu law needs to be improved and coordinated.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to bring the 10 trade policy regulations into line with the new primary legislation under the treaty of lisbon. more specifically, it aims to align the regulations with the provisions of article 290 which transpose delegated acts into european union law for the first time. this article enables the legislator to delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application supplementing or amending non-essential elements of a legislative act. in this case, i consider it necessary to amend the recitals in the main acts in order to clarify the procedure for the application of delegated acts and to define precisely the purpose, content and scope of the delegation. it would also be appropriate to ensure that parliament's experts are able to attend expert meetings organised by the commission before the preparation and implementation of delegated acts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as parliament must stress the importance of respecting the rule of law, the principle of legal clarity, the requirements of transparency and openness and the principle of proportionality in order to ensure that union law is applied in a timely and appropriate manner. it is essential that the commission use all other available means to ensure that member states transpose union legislation, in particular environmental legislation, in a timely and appropriate manner, as this is one of the most affected areas. national courts in the member states play a crucial role in the application of eu law. the union's efforts to improve and coordinate the training of national judges, lawyers, national administrative officials and civil servants should therefore be fully supported, and more active action should be taken in this area in order to truly live the concept of a union based on the rule of law.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as more efforts are needed in the area of prevention of infringements to ensure more effective application of eu law. attention should be drawn to the fact that eu law can only be applied in a timely and appropriate manner in accordance with the principles of the rule of law, legal clarity, transparency, openness and proportionality. given that the infringement procedure consists of two stages, i believe that special attention should be paid to the administrative stage, in which citizens play a special role. it should be noted that the transposition of eu legislation into national law is the main source of infringements. the commission therefore needs to pay more attention to this process and to apply certain measures more effectively to the member states.
in writing. − the implementation of european union legislation depends not only on the eu member states but also on the eu institutions. the role of the member states in transposing eu legislation into national law is crucial to the quality of implementation of eu law. unfortunately, this process takes place at different rates in the member states and often leads to different legal practices. i voted in favour of this report because it introduces stronger controls on the application of eu law. it is also one of the main levers that the european parliament, the council and the commission can use to achieve a more transparent, high-quality and rapid transposition of eu law. without coordination and quality, there will be no legal order for the transfer of eu law.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction. gas is and will remain an important source of energy throughout the eu at least until 2030 or 2035. although conventional gas production is declining, if the situation does not change, europe will still need to import significant amounts of gas for several decades. it is also being considered whether local shale gas resources could be tapped and whether the integration of the internal market could help to reduce the eu's dependence on gas imports. it is worth noting that global gas prices and trading patterns have been undergoing major changes in recent times, with clear implications for the eu. the 'shale gas revolution' is spreading relatively quickly around the world. although it is said that it is too early to draw conclusions about whether the eu could extract large quantities economically, several member states have granted permits for shale gas exploration and are preparing to extract it if possible. however, it should be stressed that all human activities involve a certain degree of risk. the aim of regulation should be to minimise the impact on the environment and to strike a reasonable balance between scientific, statistical and risk-benefit considerations (and the related alternatives).
in writing. - i voted for this document. europe will have to import a lot of gas, but at the same time natural gas is extracted in europe, and local shale gas reserves may be tapped, and the integration of the internal market may help reduce the eu's dependence on gas imports. the long-term effects of a gift can be varied. the different environmental impacts must take into account all the circumstances and comparable indicators. the friction is minimized when the production begins, the working equipment is on the surface for several square years and the production is silent. the commission notes that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the shale gas and shale oil extraction activities are carried out by an independent company. such potential interference must be brought to the attention of the competent national authorities in the course of their regulatory activities, in particular in the application of the environmental impact assessment directive. public participation should be ensured through information campaigns before the start of the exploration phase and through public consultation during the early stages of operation. more active communication and better public awareness of extraction of non-conventional fossil fuels is needed to enable the public to understand, accept and trust this activity. it is important to stress that extraction of non-conventional fossil fuels can also provide an excellent environment for economic strengthening, employment and development in certain eu regions.
in writing. − before starting to extract shale gas, a full assessment of the potential environmental and human health impacts is necessary. it is also necessary to ensure fair and equal conditions of operation throughout the union and strict implementation of the requirements of eu safety and environmental legislation. it should be noted that there is still no firm belief that the technology used to extract shale gas is sufficiently safe and will not cause major and painful environmental disasters related to the chemical pollution of drinking water, wastewater treatment, seismic effects and the possible emission of greenhouse gases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out provisions for the responsible exploitation of shale gas deposits in europe. this report is the beginning of an eu dialogue on shale gas extraction, and we must seek a consensus based on scientific knowledge. the extraction of shale gas with the highest safety standards and the latest technology is our priority. before undertaking shale gas extraction, we must ensure that we are properly prepared: a detailed analysis of the work has been carried out, we are sure that the hydraulic fracturing will not affect the ecological balance (e.g. no contamination of groundwater, etc.), and we have checked whether the work complies with the legal standards. we should not blindly follow the lead of countries in shale gas extraction. each country has its own specificities. the polish example shows that seismic activity has started at the site where the hydraulic excavation was carried out.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's position on the industrial and other aspects of shale gas. it is essential to analyse the future prospects for the global and eu gas markets and to identify possible developments in the shale gas market and their impact on future security of gas supply and prices in the european union. the analysis provided shall reflect the state of play between the eu 2020 target and the co2 target. it is worth noting that global natural gas consumption is currently increasing and that europe remains one of the regions with the highest demand for gas imports. according to the international energy agency, by 2035 european domestic gas production is projected to decline and demand to increase, leading to an increase in imports of 450 billion cubic metres. it is therefore necessary to present, by the end of 2012, not only a planned energy action plan, but also an examination of the availability, scale and production of the eu's non-conventional gas resources.
in writing. − i abstained in this vote because the development of shale gas extraction is controversial in the eu and globally and requires a thorough assessment of all types of impacts (environment, public health and climate change) before further development of this technology. it should also be noted that public participation should be ensured through information campaigns before the start of the exploration phase and through public consultation during the early stages of operation. more active communication and better public awareness of extraction of non-conventional fossil fuels is needed to enable the public to understand, accept and trust this activity.
in writing. − today we have approved two important documents that open the way to greater exploitation of shale gas in the european union. however, these documents are only the first steps towards ensuring that this energy sector does not become a wild and unregulated business. i therefore urge both the commission and the member states to take note of parliament's recommendations on both licensing and land use, taxation and the environment. only then will shale gas become europe's energy future.
in writing. − it is important to note that exploration and extraction of shale gas is a complex, time-consuming and technologically expensive process. the question arises therefore whether the currently promising idea of shale gas extraction in europe cannot be compared with the vision of intensive agriculture on low yields and small land areas: a modest result achieved with a huge effort requiring a lot of time and investment. it is also very important to note that the development of shale gas extraction is subject to controversial assessments, which require a thorough assessment of all types of impacts (environment, public health and climate change) before further development of this technology. in this context, i believe that more investment in research and research and development programmes is needed to achieve better outcomes and a greater understanding of the safety and risks of intelligence and production operations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the environmental impact assessment of shale gas and shale oil extraction. the main benefits of shale gas for the european union would be greater energy independence from imports, increased competition and lower prices and job creation. however, shale gas production has a very negative impact on the environment, with large amounts of water used for its production, groundwater pollution and the risk of underground explosions. the extraction of such unconventional fossil fuels can boost the eu economy and increase employment, but a thorough assessment of all types of impacts (environment, public health and climate change) is necessary before the technology can be developed. i support the proposals that, despite the exclusive right of member states to exploit their energy resources, fossil fuel extraction should be carried out in a way that ensures a level playing field across the eu and that eu safety and environmental legislation is respected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to change the procedure for filing and examining petitions to make it more efficient, transparent and impartial. eu citizens can petition the european parliament on matters which fall within the eu's fields of activity and are of direct relevance to them. this gives parliament the opportunity to draw attention to infringements of citizens' rights by member states or local authorities. i support the proposals to improve the means of allowing eu citizens to raise important issues in plenary, and to give parliament more scope to call witnesses, conduct investigations and prepare for the on-the-spot discussions on the issues raised in petitions. this would improve the visibility, accountability and transparency of the committee on petitions. i welcome the cooperation between the committee on petitions and the european ombudsman's services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is an initiative of the european parliament's committee on petitions to strengthen efforts to provide better information and appropriate assistance to eu citizens. the committee on petitions' activities in the past year have focused on environmental and fundamental rights (justice) issues. similar themes prevailed in previous years, and the current trends have also been confirmed this year. the importance of these issues is clearly reflected in all the committee's work in 2011: the committee's discussions on petitions, the reports and hearings, the fact-finding visits, as well as the new petitions received. the committee's report is entitled 'the eu citizenship report 2010'. the removal of obstacles to the full realisation of the rights of eu citizens, based on the initial data from petitions, shows that the main problems are the implementation of the directive on the right of free movement of union citizens and their family members, access to social security benefits, mutual recognition of qualifications, obstacles faced by persons with disabilities, family law problems and mass expulsions due to ethnic or national origin. the communication also stresses the importance of information websites and alternative dispute resolution tools, as well as the need for continuous information and communication.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the committee on petitions has a duty to constantly review and, where possible, strengthen its role, particularly in the area of promoting democratic principles, such as encouraging greater participation of citizens in the eu decision-making process and increasing transparency and accountability. in its normal course of action, the committee works closely with the member states, the commission, the european ombudsman and other bodies to ensure that the letter and spirit of eu law is respected. eu citizens and permanent residents have a legitimate expectation that the problems for which they turn to the committee on petitions will be resolved in a timely manner and in accordance with the legal framework of the european union, which they rely on to protect their rights as citizens of the union, in particular the right to the natural environment, health, freedom of movement, dignity and fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i think that the usefulness of the committee on petitions is unquestionable, since it actively defends the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens by using its political influence. it is to be welcomed that considerable progress has been made in developing and strengthening links with citizens. i believe that more attention should be paid to the implementation of eu legislation in the fields of the environment, justice and the internal market, where the level of infringements is not decreasing. attention should be drawn to the need for closer cooperation with national parliaments and governments in order to ensure more transparent transposition and application of eu legislation.
i congratulate the speakers who have done a great job, especially indrek taranda. four years ago, the european union declared climate change to be the greatest threat to humanity. we have only seven years left to prevent the irreversible damage of climate change. the crisis, unfortunately, has pushed this most pressing problem to the side. the impact of climate change on global security should be reflected in all key eu documents and an interinstitutional working group should be established to increase the capacity of the eu and its member states to anticipate and respond to natural disasters caused by climate change and their consequences. better coordination is needed between the eu countries, the european commission, the us, as well as china, india, russia and brazil. an early warning mechanism is needed, both at european and global level. the world's militaries, especially the largest, should make more efficient use of energy resources to help combat climate change.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. increasing the frequency of extreme weather events also means higher costs for the european economy, both for developing and so-called economically stable countries. the occurrence of natural disasters is a matter of course and requires a common approach from the member states of the european union to counteract the devastating effects of disasters. the union's priority in this regard should be to protect the population against loss of access to fresh water and food following a natural disaster. this requires the development of a forward-looking and integrated crisis management and response policy across the 27 countries. it is therefore necessary to examine which countries or regions are most exposed to the risk of natural disasters. a list of such countries or regions should then be drawn up and annual reports on possible risks and mitigation proposals should be made. the union must also, of course, cooperate with other regions of the world in this area in order to have a global picture of potential dangers. in addition, it is of great importance to continue and strengthen the union's humanitarian aid not only on the european continent but also beyond. the european commission should also include in its main development strategies the issue of effectively eliminating natural hazards linked to natural disasters, so that potentially affected areas and their authorities have a sense of security and certainty that they will receive assistance in the event of a natural disaster.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am pleased to have the opportunity today to brief you on behalf of high representative/vice-president ashton on the latest developments and the european union’s activities in kazakhstan. i would like to warmly thank mrs jaakonssaari for her excellent report. kazakhstan has been an important partner for the eu in central asia, not only on trade and economic exchanges, but as a stable country which has a proven track record of inter-ethnic and inter-religious harmony and tolerance. the eu has a strategic interest in further deepening our involvement with kazakhstan and in developing fully the potential for political cooperation; especially considering the rapidly evolving dynamics of regional integration. kazakhstan is a pragmatic partner, open to discussions and willing to explore opportunities. the european union, in return, is a very important trade and investment partner for kazakhstan: more than half of the total foreign and direct investment in the country comes from eu investors. over the past years, we have increased cooperation, have had frequent high-level meetings and launched negotiations for a new enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement. the negotiation of the new agreement proves the importance of kazakhstan for the eu, and is the recognition of our strong economic and strategic relations. however, as underlined by the vice president/high representative on many occasions before, the enhancement of eu-kazakhstan relations is not independent of the advancement of domestic political reforms and the protection and promotion of human rights in kazakhstan. this is a priority for the european parliament but also for the european union. the european union has been observing the political and human rights related developments in kazakhstan since the tragic events of zhanaozen in december 2011 with serious concern. this included the monitoring of the trials of the people accused of inciting or participating in the violent events of zhanaozen, by the eu delegation in astana, in line with the parliament’s appeals to do so in its resolution of 15 march 2012. we have seen several procedural shortcomings in the trial processes and fear that the verdicts given have been mainly based on political activism and the general involvement of the defendants in trade union or opposition movements. the high representative/vice-president ashton has encouraged, and will continue to encourage, the kazakh authorities to review the trial processes, in line with the international commitments and obligations of kazakhstan. the eu has also called for the right to a free, fair and transparent appeal process for mr kozlov and all other defendants. we fully support parliament when it calls on kazakhstan as a member of the venice commission, and also as a newly elected member of the un human rights council, to demonstrate its strong commitment to human rights, including the freedoms of speech, of assembly, of association and of religion and belief. the european union will continue to make this point in all bilateral contacts and cooperation fora, as we did just last week again during the eu-kazakhstan cooperation committee meeting and will do during upcoming negotiation rounds on the new pca. the respect for democracy, the principles of international law, fundamental freedoms and human rights is an essential component of the new eu-kazakhstan agreement. this means that, once the new agreement enters into force, the violation of this essential element could lead to the suspension of parts or all of the agreement. this is in line with the report where the honourable members of the parliament stress that, although used rarely, the suspension of the application of any pca is possible in the case of serious breaches of human rights. in this regard, the pca will strengthen the dialogue with kazakhstan on human rights through our regular dialogues. human rights will undoubtedly be raised by high representative/vice-president ashton during her upcoming visit to astana next week. as also called for by the report, the commission services and the eeas are doing their utmost to ensure that the new agreement is a comprehensive one, with emphasis on political, legal, economic and social reforms. in line with this, our aim is to broaden the scope of our cooperation with kazakhstan in a number of areas and also help the kazakh authorities’ reform and modernisation efforts. this includes encouraging kazakhstan’s efforts for legislative conformity with the eu acquis and wto rules. kazakhstan has the eu’s full support for wto accession, and in particular an early conclusion of the ongoing negotiations. it is likely that the negotiations on the new pca will be concluded following kazakhstan’s wto accession, so the negotiations of the pca are based on this assumption. in this regard, the european union expects that the customs union between kazakhstan, russia and belarus will not constitute a barrier for enhanced cooperation with the european union – as also stated in the european parliament report. the negotiation of a new pca is not a simple or short process. through this process, the european union is committed to standing alongside kazakhstan and its citizens, both as a friend and as a partner, on the path of political reform and economic development. in this endeavour, we will continue to provide full information to parliament, as we have been doing so far. we count on the support of parliament and we look forward to the resolution that you will adopt tomorrow.
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to double-check if you have decided to cancel the catch-the-eye procedure on this issue. if that is the case, i kindly ask you to reconsider your decision, because we have been waiting for this item all day, and – at the very least – all those who have already registered should be allowed to speak. thank you.
mr president, kazakhstan is a significant trade partner in central asia and an influential player within the region itself. therefore the enhanced pca has to fulfil the following expectations. firstly, it is essential for the european union to strengthen both political and economic ties with the country. the existing cooperation in the fields of energy, education and others is a good basis for further cooperation. it is crucial that the european union supports kazakhstan’s moves towards an improved investment climate, diversified exports and tariff negotiations. secondly, the european union should use the enhanced pca as a platform to promote improvement of relations between kazakhstan and other countries in the central asia region. furthermore, it is crucial that the pca contains provisions for interregional cooperation in the central asia region. finally, although it is important for the pca to retain our belief in democratic principles and human rights, we should now also focus on cooperation in order to help to make our principles a reality.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteurs for the draft that we have discussed today. i fully acknowledge the time and hard work that have been put into this report. at the same time, however, my position, mr president, is that you should consider postponing the vote on this motion, which is scheduled for tomorrow, because yesterday, as has already been mentioned, the prosecutor-general made a statement in which he labelled as extremist all the main independent media in kazakhstan and banned them. his statement clearly blames the media for inciting social hatred and calling for the government to be overthrown. i am extremely worried by this course of action. this statement cannot go unanswered, and so for the benefit of kazakhstan i think that we should take this issue seriously. postponement of the vote is possibly the best solution.
thank you, mr president, first of all, i would like to join my colleagues who welcome the emergence of a ceasefire agreement and hope that this agreement will be long-lasting and will also provide the impetus for the resumption of negotiations for a lasting peace and a final two-state agreement in this region. the text of the resolution is, in my view, balanced. deplores the high civilian casualties and condemns the attacks by hamas and other militant groups against israel and its civilian population; israel has the right to defend itself. any aggression deliberately directed at civilians is intolerable. i voted against paragraph five, which supports the palestinian bid for observer status at the united nations. i am certainly in favour of palestinian statehood, but unilateral steps, seeking recognition by the roads, will not lead anywhere. we have to deal with the neighbor. secondly, i don't think we want a state that is partly controlled by a terrorist organization that doesn't recognize its neighbor's right to statehood. i hope that we will find political forces that can guarantee peace in the region.
thank you, chairman, i voted in favor of the resolution on cybersecurity and defense. we have a number of cases where the institutions of the european union and individual member states have been the victims of cyberattacks, such as estonia in 2007. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i fully support the need for each member state to adopt national action plans, but in particular for cooperation at different levels, exchanging experience and sharing knowledge across the european union and internationally. some countries that do not respect democratic values tend to limit or sacrifice the vast possibilities of communication for their own interests. we must act to prevent the creation of favourable conditions for such states and their policies to gain ground.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a multiannual plan for the sustainable management of the baltic salmon stock. salmon stocks in some 30 baltic fisheries are threatened by a loss of genetic diversity. the baltic salmon stock should be exploited in accordance with the maximum allowable catch principle and in a way that is sustainable and that protects its diversity. i agree that in order to strengthen the control of salmon fishing, at least 50% of the fish landed in the member states should be inspected, that more attention should be paid to the declaration of catches and that more inspections in ports should be carried out. i support the proposal to introduce comprehensive controls and accountability for all types of recreational fishing. it is essential that the european fisheries fund (eff) provides financial support for the direct recovery of salmon stocks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp), the multiannual plan for the conservation of the baltic salmon stock is a vital part of the management of marine resources. in order to adequately assess the extent of the baltic sea resources, a comprehensive consultation of stakeholders has been carried out. the information obtained during this process indicates that there is a lack of a large number of key data, which has made the preparation of this report more difficult. in the absence of adequate control and information, recreational fishing, not marked as 'service vessel', has led to an uncontrolled expansion of recreational fisheries, thus having a significant impact on the size of the baltic salmon stock. it is worth noting that the development of fisheries management plans for european union waters requires a comprehensive consultation of stakeholders in order to find compromise solutions that protect the environment and ensure the sustainable development of fisheries. i would therefore welcome stricter controls on catches and would consider it appropriate to control at least 50% of the fish landed in each member state to ensure that a sufficient level of control is in place, thus contributing to the recovery of salmon stocks.
in writing. − i voted for this document because, in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy, the multiannual plan for the conservation of the baltic salmon stock is a vital part of the management of marine resources. salmon were or were not found in many rivers near the baltic sea, each with a different genetic population. over the years, the population of these bears has declined dramatically or even disappeared. pollution, habitat destruction, hydroelectric dams, and other man-made problems have caused a dramatic decline in the population. it is therefore necessary to ensure the conservation and management of salmon stocks. establish clear rules to harmonise the principles of management and control of recreational fisheries. only with the right management of recreational fishing activities will the development of alternative forms of fishing be significantly contributed to, and this will encourage, the sustainable growth of regions dependent on fishing.
in writing. − as we all know, the baltic sea is one of the most sensitive seas off the eu's coast. this is true not only of water quality and pollution, but also of the protection of biological resources, in particular the salmon stock. unfortunately, current management of resources does not guarantee their full recovery. i therefore support the view that the eu approach to fisheries and fisheries resource management must be based primarily on scientific data on the recovery and sustainable use of resources.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as it is necessary to establish clear rules to harmonise the principles of management and control of recreational fisheries and to encourage the development of alternative forms of fishing. in order to ensure the efficient management of the baltic salmon stock, compromise solutions must be found in all cases. it is also essential that scientific research in this area is carried out on a continuous basis and that a comprehensive control mechanism is established. i think that the proposal to limit poaching should be considered very carefully and thoroughly studied, since its adoption could have negative consequences and lead to further reduction of salmon stocks.
in writing. − the report on baltic salmon stock and the fisheries exploiting that stock makes significant changes to the management of salmon fisheries in the baltic sea area and it urges the member states to exploit the stock sustainably and to safeguard its genetic integrity and diversity. i support this report because it says that ecological recovery of salmon and environmental needs have to be balanced with economical aspects. necessary management measures should be introduced so that the baltic salmon fishery continues to provide jobs and income in the fishery’s regions for years to come. reduction of catches should be negotiated and agreed with fishers to increase the chances of its successful implementation. in order to achieve ethical and sustainable fisheries, the trust and communication methods between the stakeholders should be improved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to bring the 10 trade policy regulations into line with the new primary legislation under the treaty of lisbon. more specifically, it aims to align the regulations with the provisions of article 290 which transpose delegated acts into european union law for the first time. this article enables the legislator to delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application supplementing or amending non-essential elements of a legislative act. in this case, i consider it necessary to amend the recitals in the main acts in order to clarify the procedure for the application of delegated acts and to define precisely the purpose, content and scope of the delegation. it would also be appropriate to ensure that parliament's experts are able to attend expert meetings organised by the commission before the preparation and implementation of delegated acts.
in writing. - i said yes to this proposal. this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy, as regards the power to adopt delegated acts in respect of the granting of certain measures (common commercial proposal ii, omnibus ii), aims to align 10 regulations in the field of commercial policy with the new primary law provisions under the treaty of lisbon. more specifically, it aims to align the regulations with the provisions of article 290 which transpose delegated acts into european union law for the first time. this article enables the legislator to delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application supplementing or amending non-essential elements of a legislative act. the legislator reserves the right to withdraw the mandate at any time and to take the relevant decision autonomously. the legislator may also veto any decision adopted by means of a delegated act. it shall be sufficient for the council or the parliament to object to a draft delegated act proposed by the commission.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the implementation of the provisions of the regulation will facilitate the implementation of the common commercial policy. i think it is appropriate to change certain procedures to those for the adoption of delegated acts. it is necessary to clarify the procedure for the application of delegated acts and to define precisely the purpose, content and scope of the delegation in order to avoid legal loopholes and misinterpretations. i support the proposal to limit the period for delegating powers to the commission in order to ensure more effective parliamentary control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to amend the regulation on the conservation of fishery resources. the proposal aims to extend the rules on technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms until the adoption of a regional system of technical measures under the common fisheries policy. these measures lay down rules on minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size, prohibited fishing periods, etc. although the temporary cessation of these measures would be detrimental to the conservation of fish stocks. i agree with the proposals made for the development of these measures in the light of scientific advice, in order to ensure the safety of fishermen and to prevent unfair fishing practices. i agree that these measures should be developed with a regional approach, i.e. they should be developed for specific cases and zones rather than set as general rules for all member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources play a central role in the annual decisions on fishing opportunities. more specifically, these conservation measures are the rules that fishermen have to follow on a daily basis when fishing. these measures concern the minimum landing size, the minimum mesh size, the zones and the closure periods, the limitation of the catch, the criteria for the use of fishing gear and the use of the means to ensure a wider choice of fishing gear and gear designed to protect the marine environment and to contribute to the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp). in addition to extending the validity of the current technical measures, the proposed text updates the existing measures in line with the recommendations of stecf and the ices and also refers to the measures to reduce discards in the north-east atlantic as agreed with norway and the faroe islands in 2010, but not yet transposed into eu legislation. it is disappointing that, instead of a permanent solution being found in time, parliament has received another proposal for transitional technical measures. european fishermen need legal clarity and the word 'temporarily' should not be taken too seriously.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i support the provision that measures are needed to ensure that fish stocks are fished sustainably and that the ecosystems in which fish live are preserved. in addition, these measures need to be formulated and developed taking into account the variability of fisheries management and scientific advice. poor preparation or the setting of inadequate technical means may lead to the development of improper fishing practices and, in certain cases, to the risk to the life and safety of fishermen, which would be completely unacceptable.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it is essential to ensure that fish stocks are fished sustainably and that ecosystems are preserved. it should be noted that the cfp will not enter into force until next year. it is therefore appropriate to extend the validity of the rules on technical measures on the basis of the transitional regulation and in the interests of legal clarity. it should be noted that technical measures based on scientific research are a guarantee of sustainable fishing and the protection of the right fishermen and their continuous application must therefore be ensured. on the other hand, they cannot be regarded as rules of a general nature and must be limited to specific cases and defined areas on a regional basis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal to ban the practice of shark finning on board ships. the practice of removing the fins of sharks, often while they are still alive, is intolerable, as it not only threatens the sustainability of some shark species, but also results in the loss of food components. regulation no 1185/2003 provides for an exemption from the prohibition on shark finning for vessels holding special fishing permits, which the commission is seeking to repeal. i agree that, in the absence of evidence that the practice of removing fins actually exists in eu waters and on board ships, this commission proposal is contrary to the principle that policy action should be based on scientific evidence. the aim is to obtain more accurate information on this matter and i therefore support the proposals set out here on the obligation for shipowners to report the total number and weight of shark species caught and on the obligation to always land fins and carcass together in the same port. i also agree that if the local authorities cannot ensure adequate control of fishing, the masters of the vessels should hire an independent body to carry out such control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the practice of shark finning is environmentally unacceptable, because it threatens the sustainability of some species of sharks that are fished, and also socially and economically because it results in the loss of commercially valuable food components, and morally because it is a practice that is totally disregardful of animal life. it is therefore necessary to reject this practice unequivocally and to take appropriate measures to ensure that it is effectively prohibited in eu waters and on community vessels. in the absence of data to establish that shark finning is practised on eu vessels, the commission decided to propose the abolition of the exception to the prohibition of shark finning on community fishing vessels, which, as already mentioned, currently allows such practice with special fishing permits and subject to the provisions of this regulation. i believe that all the proposals in this draft report are useful in addressing two concerns of the commission: ensuring compliance with the ban on removing fins and collecting scientific data on good governance; concerns of the sector; ensuring legitimate economic and social interests; and concerns of ngos; protecting shark stocks.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the practice of deliberately removing fins, i.e. cutting off the fins of sharks on board ships and dumping their bodies at sea, has been officially banned in the european union since 2003 by a regulation. however, the regulation provides for the possibility of using exceptions to obtain 'special authorisations' and in two member states, spain and portugal, this exception has become the norm. such a complex system, which allows the removal of fins on board a vessel if the ratio of fins to carcass does not exceed 5% by weight, in principle prevents effective control. it is indeed difficult to verify that this requirement is met, especially if the landing of the fins and carcases takes place in different ports. i therefore supported this proposal, which is based on the method of requiring that the fins are not cut. this should be the only effective method to combat fin removal and to enable member states to comply with the regulation in a simple, effective and inexpensive manner.
in writing. - i support this resolution because the practice of removing the fins of sharks and dumping the remaining part of the shark into the sea is unjustified and should be banned. in this context, it is essential that a proper 'untrimmed feathers' policy is implemented at eu level to prevent such feather removal practices. in addition, a strict control mechanism should be established to close legal loopholes and to address problems related to the application of the fin-to-carcase ratio. in particular, the current derogation should be reduced and the obligation to land both fins and carcases in the same port should be respected. on the other hand, we must ensure that the prohibition on removing the fins will not have a significant impact on the profitability of the business and the safety of the crew.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the accession of eight third countries to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention establishes a framework for cooperation between states in cases of child abduction, provides for the jurisdiction of courts and the law applicable to the question of the child's place of residence, and provides for the prompt return of abducted children to their country of residence. for legal reasons, the council decided to postpone the consultation of parliament and the accession of these countries to the hague convention. i agree with the recommendations that the council should immediately resume the procedure for accession of the above countries to the hague convention and to that end consult the ep. i agree that in defending the interests of its citizens, the council should not prevent the eu from acting properly for alleged legal reasons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is of the utmost importance to establish a framework within which participating states can cooperate in order to find solutions in cases of international child abduction. it is necessary to provide for the courts with jurisdiction and the law applicable to the decision on the child's place of residence. recommendations are now being made to the council that it should immediately continue the procedure for taking those decisions. in view of the interests of eu citizens who would benefit from these decisions being taken, it should not prevent the european union from acting properly for alleged legal reasons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is of the utmost importance, as it establishes a framework within which the participating states can cooperate to find solutions in cases of international child abduction, provides for the courts with jurisdiction and the law applicable to the decision on the child's place of residence. the convention also provides for the prompt return of abducted children to their country of residence. the convention shall apply only in relations between the parties which have ratified or acceded to it. accession of new countries requires the consent of the states which are already members in order for the convention to apply to their relations. the european union has already exercised its internal competence in the field of international child abduction, in particular by adopting council regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility. the council should continue the procedure for adopting those proposed decisions without delay. to this end, it should consult parliament on the eight proposed decisions. in view of the interests of eu citizens who would benefit from these decisions being taken, it should not prevent the european union from acting properly for alleged legal reasons.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it should be noted that the protection of children's rights is a matter of public interest and that it is therefore necessary to constantly seek the best solution in the child's best interests. very often, child disputes take on an international dimension and present the problem of illegal child removal. in this context, it is necessary to ensure the implementation of the provisions of this convention at international level. the accession process of new countries must not be delayed. we must protect children from the harmful effects of their illegal removal or retention. it is also necessary to ensure that the return of children to the state of their habitual residence is carried out expeditiously and that the right of parents to visit their child is properly enforced.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it confirms the european parliament's position that the internet must be a public space in which human rights and freedoms are respected. the internet must remain free and open and there can be no talk of any offers that could seriously threaten the open and competitive nature of the internet. the report calls on the european council to coordinate negotiations on the revision of international telecommunications regulations and to rely on information gathered from a wide range of actors. i believe that in the further development of telecommunications, the issues of internet governance and related regulation should continue to be defined in detail and at different levels.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in view of the importance of electronic communications policy, an open and robust legal framework should be established and a model based on consumer interests and multilateralism applied. any amendments to international telecommunications regulations should be compatible with eu law. it should be noted that greater attention should be paid to the preparation of the 2012 world conference on international telecommunications, given its importance for society. i believe that only by working together can we protect the openness of the internet, the rights of users and the proper implementation of the principles of the free market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the doha climate change conference at the end of november. the doha conference will negotiate a global, legally binding agreement on climate change, which should replace the kyoto protocol from 2020. i agree that the main objectives of the eu delegation to the negotiations should be to set a more ambitious greenhouse gas mitigation agenda and to move towards a global agreement on climate change. i support the proposals that the eu should reduce its carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020 compared to 1990. i agree that the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol should start on 1 january 2013 and that the transition to the new international system should be completed by 2020. it is also necessary to seek to mobilise the green climate fund for developing countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the joint resolution recognises that climate change is an unavoidable and possibly irreversible threat to humanity and that this issue must be addressed at international level by all countries. as recent research shows that, for example, the effects of climate change in the arctic are more rapid and more pronounced than previously predicted, as investments in the energy sector very often take 30 years or more, and as new projects and policies take a long time to plan, this clearly demonstrates the need for new energy action worldwide. the eu should take a leadership role in the fight against climate change and reach a legally binding and binding agreement on a common long-term effort to mitigate climate change. it is important to note that after 2012 - the last financial year of the 'rapid start' (the commitment of usd 30 billion over three years made in copenhagen) - there is no certainty about climate finance. it is worth stressing that the current economic crisis cannot be the end of inaction or of the refusal to provide funds for adaptation measures in developing countries.
in writing. − the fight against climate change is a fairly new eu policy area. while we are considering a host of new legislation to reduce the climate impact of human economic activity, we have not made much progress in this area internationally. i agree with the vast majority of the provisions in the resolution, but i am convinced that they will remain mere words unless the european union is able to concentrate the efforts of all member states and finally speak with one voice in the international climate policy arena.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it is worth noting that doha will help lay the foundations for the global agreement on climate change in 2015. in this context, it is crucial that the eu succeeds in persuading its partners around the world to take more decisive action to join the international agreement. only by working together to reduce emissions will we preserve fair competition and avoid disastrous changes for all of humanity. in order to address the negative impacts of climate change, it is necessary to seek innovative and additional sources of financing. increased financial and technical support should be provided to developing countries and the poorest and most vulnerable countries. i think it is appropriate to include the cancún agreement provisions in the draft eu legislation under preparation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the definition of the strategic interests of eu enlargement policy. the eu's enlargement policy is one of the most important instruments for promoting democratic values, respect for human rights and freedoms, security and stability in the european region. at the same time, the eu must be able to integrate new member states financially, institutionally and politically, and the readiness assessments should remain objective, fair and based on the country's progress towards meeting the copenhagen criteria. the economic crisis has led to a decline in the popularity of eu enlargement, both in the member states and in the candidate countries. i agree with the suggestions that the eu needs a new communication strategy to spread information about eu enlargement policy through civil society, trade unions and ngos and bring it closer to eu citizens. the commission should carry out detailed impact assessments each time it considers a country's eu accession request. i agree that a strong focus should be placed on an effective and independent judiciary, which strengthens citizens' trust in the rule of law, the development of tolerance, the promotion of neighbourly relations and an atmosphere of regional cooperation, etc.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the enlargement process has a major impact on the eu itself, enabling it to better define its identity, objectives, values and policies and to better communicate these to its citizens. i believe it is important that the eu and the candidate countries uphold all their obligations, commitments and conditions to ensure the success of future enlargement, inter alia by providing assistance to the countries concerned to meet the eu membership criteria. i believe that enlargement policy is a sound policy and that compliance with the copenhagen criteria remains an essential basis for eu membership and that due account should be taken of the union's capacity for integration. i believe it is essential that the candidate countries make progress in the areas of democracy, human rights and reconciliation processes. these areas should be a constant focus of the enlargement process and should be reflected in the financial instruments.
in writing. - i voted for this document. i am a strong supporter of the enlargement process and believe that enlargement policy must remain a credible policy, supported by both the eu and the candidate and potential candidate countries. i would therefore stress the importance of the eu and the candidate and potential candidate countries fulfilling all their obligations, respecting all commitments and creating the conditions for the success of future enlargement, inter alia, by providing assistance to the countries concerned to meet the eu membership criteria. i also recognise the benefits of the enlargement and accession process for the citizens of the candidate and potential candidate countries and for the citizens of the eu.
in writing. - i voted yes. it is important that the european parliament has expressed its strong position in support of the continuity of the eu's enlargement policy. enlargement policy is one of the main and most effective tools of eu soft power. the eu's membership drive is a driving force for internal reforms, and contributes to the political, economic and even social transformation of those seeking eu membership. there is no doubt that enlargement opens up new opportunities for the eu as a whole and for its citizens. of course, this is not an easy process, and we often face some disappointment. however, it is not without reason that the text of the ep resolution begins with a reference to article 49 of the treaty on european union. i believe that the door of enlargement should not be closed to any european country which expresses its desire for european integration and shows concrete progress. there is another dimension to eu enlargement - a process that promotes peace and stability through deepening integration, democratisation - the ideas for which the eu was awarded the nobel peace prize.
in writing. − i support this resolution, since the benefits of enlargement policy are undeniable and it is therefore necessary to ensure the consistency and stability of this policy. it is vital that each country joining the eu has resolved its major bilateral issues and major disputes, including border disputes. given the complexity and nature of certain disputes, which sometimes cannot be resolved by the parties independently, constructively and peacefully, a special role is assigned to the commission and the council. i therefore support the proposal to call on these institutions to establish an arbitration mechanism to settle bilateral and multilateral disputes. however, the reform process should be given a new impetus, while maintaining a strict prohibition of discrimination in any form or nature.
in writing. − enlargement and cohesion have always served as a foundation for the future of the european union. the enlargement process has brought peace, stability and prosperity to many parts of europe and has allowed for the diffusion of norms such as human rights, environmental protection and liberal democracy. the eu should continue to support the accession process for candidate countries, provided said countries conform to eu standards on social, economic and political issues. despite the current european financial crisis, the eu should continue to support and fund the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa), as this mechanism helps to stabilise candidate countries and prepare them for their acceptance into the eu. i voted in favour of this report because it urges to take a focused approach to integration. the eu’s capacity to integrate and to incorporate each new candidate country should be closely monitored and evaluated by the commission to avoid impairing the ability of the eu to fulfil its economic, political and social objectives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which expresses grave concerns over the situation in gaza and israel and commends the cessation of hostilities which cause unjustifiable suffering of innocent civilians. it is of utmost importance that an urgent de-escalation and cessation of hostilities takes place immediately. all sides must fully respect and abide by international humanitarian law. the situation in the region clearly shows that a two-state solution allowing both sides to live side-by-side in peace and security is the only solution in the current situation. the mediating efforts by egypt to achieve a ceasefire are very much welcome but it is necessary to address also the core of the problem in order to have the ceasefire which would be broad and sustainable as well as to ensure stability in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the common security and defence policy is not a luxury or an anecdote. on the contrary, it is a strategic necessity for the european union. i support the rapporteur’s view that, even though nato still is a cornerstone of our continent’s common defence, even though the transatlantic partnership must be reaffirmed and is irreplaceable, there are cases of crises which affect our security, and in which nato cannot intervene (the georgian crisis for example, and african conflicts in general), or in which the united states deem that they do not have to intervene. we must admit that the strategic challenges which we are facing are huge and unprecedented: a structural and lasting decrease of defence budgets in the european countries, a reorientation of us priorities, and volatility and extreme diversity of threats. therefore, the european countries must make a following choice: either suffer a collective strategic drop, or pull themselves together and fully use the csdp’s potential, however modest it may be. i urge member states to choose the latter way.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp). the eu carries out operational missions in third countries on the basis of the csdp. the purpose of these missions is to maintain peace and strengthen international security, based on the civilian and military means provided by the member states. the civil and military capacity for conflict prevention and crisis management between states needs to be strengthened, and i therefore support the measures set out in the proposal. i support calls for the establishment of an eu operations headquarters to carry out civilian missions and military operations alongside the european external action service. i agree that public-private partnerships in the field of air transport should be strengthened to enable humanitarian relief in the event of disasters and the transport of materials and personnel through csdp missions. i believe that more support is needed for the european defence agency, the eu satellite centre and the eu security and defence college in order to implement the eu's security and defence policy more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union should be a full-fledged political actor at international level in order to promote peace and security at international level, to protect its interests in the world and to ensure the security of its citizens. particularly at a time of major geostrategic shifts in the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular due to the major upheavals in the middle east and north africa, as well as the emergence of new international actors with ambitions at regional or even global level, and the shift of us defence policy priorities towards the asia-pacific region, it is important for the eu to consolidate its strategic autonomy in order to implement a robust and effective foreign, security and defence policy. strategic autonomy should be built through liaison with nato and other organisations and the development of a global common position among eu countries that ensures consistency, acts in solidarity and uses all available tools and mechanisms to ensure peace and the security of citizens.
in writing. - i voted yes. in the context of economic and financial difficulties, countries face challenges that limit eu member states' spending on defence. this is not just a matter of nato commitments, it primarily affects national capacities, loss of expertise, decline of industry, while negatively affecting the effectiveness of the eu csdp. the international context the emerging crisis in the eu's immediate neighbourhood, the arming of some third countries the inability to relax and rest on the laurels of relative security. given the limited resources, it is necessary to focus on capacity building and sharing. however, the eu csdp should not claim to duplicate any nato functions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the development of an eu policy of mutual defence and solidarity. a stronger and more capable european defence is necessary to ensure the same security guarantees for all citizens of the union. the treaty of lisbon provided for a mutual defence and solidarity clause. under this provision, member states undertake to assist each other in the event of a terrorist attack or natural or man-made disaster. i support the proposal to establish a practical procedure and guidelines to ensure an effective response in the event of an attack by a member state and to provide for an analysis of the role of the eu institutions in this context. both the eu and the member states must carry out joint hazard and risk assessments on a regular basis, based on the analysis of intelligence data. in order to avoid duplication of effort and waste of resources, it is necessary to ensure closer political cooperation between the eu high representative and the nato secretary-general.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu recognises an international order based on effective multilateralism, which is based on international law; this is based on the european conviction that no country can face the new threats alone. it is important to note that the fight against international terrorism remains a priority for the eu in the areas of defence and security, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that all member states have a common strategy and response in place. while each member state has primary responsibility for crisis management in its own territory, this communication promotes and gradually shapes a common defence policy that would strengthen the european identity and the eu's strategic advantage. it is important to note that the security of the eu member states is indivisible and all eu citizens should have the same security guarantees and the same level of protection against traditional and non-traditional threats.
in writing. − i voted for this document because i support the idea that the security of eu member states is indivisible and that all eu citizens should have the same security guarantees and the same level of protection against traditional and non-traditional threats. i believe that the defence of peace, security, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and the freedoms that are essential to the well-being of our peoples in europe must remain the primary objective and duty of the european countries and the union. recently, security challenges have been confronted by a number of complex and evolving threats, such as international terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, fragmentation of countries, frozen and unending conflicts, organised crime, the threat of cybercrime, energy scarcity, environmental degradation and related security risks, natural and man-made disasters, pandemics and many others. in addition, security and the fight against international terrorism are eu priorities and all member states should develop a common response and a common strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which urges member states to complete without further delay their national cyber security and defence strategies and national contingency plans, and also to include cyber crisis management in crisis management plans and risk analyses. i support the rapporteur that the eu is currently missing an exhaustive overview of the existing cyber security challenges and is also lacking common definitions, standards and a united approach to these threats. politically-motivated cyber attacks are targeting not only the information systems but also critical infrastructures of the member states which are seeking to implement a crucial task in creating mutual trust between the state and private sector actors by developing frameworks for rapid information exchanges while guaranteeing anonymity of the private sector partners. one of ways to strengthen cyber security and defence is to enhance the role of the european defence agency and the european network and information security agency (enisa) in assisting member states, in helping to pool and share experience and in developing good practices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on eu cybersecurity and defence. in today's globalised world, with the increase in cyber threats and attacks and the threat to the security and stability of states, it is essential that the european union develops a stronger policy for a high level of eu network and information security. a comprehensive eu cybersecurity strategy is needed, providing a definition of cybersecurity and defence, cyberattack. the strategy should take into account good practices in member states that already have national cybersecurity strategies. i support the proposal to strengthen the action of the eu computer emergency response teams (cert) and the national certs and to develop national contingency plans to be used in the event of a cyber attack. it is necessary to establish an eu cyber coordination office. i support calls for the european defence agency (eda) to strengthen cooperation with nato, the european cybercrime centre europol and the joint cyber defence training centre (ccdcoe) and to focus on capacity building, training and information exchange.
in writing. − i voted for this report because all countries, not only in the eu but also in the world, are heavily dependent on information and communication technologies. with almost two billion users worldwide, cyberspace has become a powerful tool for spreading democratic ideas, bringing together those seeking to realize the aspirations of freedom and fighting dictatorial regimes. it is worth noting that most high-profile cyber-attacks that threaten national or international security and defence are never identified and prosecuted. similarly, there is no international agreement on how to respond to state-sponsored cyberattacks against another state, nor has it been decided whether such actions could be considered a casus belli. given the recent dramatic increase in cyber problems, threats and attacks, it is necessary to adopt a resolution on a comprehensive protection system that would not, at the same time, undermine the open and free flow of cyber traffic.
in writing. - i spoke for this document. in today's globalised world, the eu and its member states have become highly dependent on a secure cyberspace, the secure use of information and digital technologies and flexible and reliable information services. the very rapid increase in cyber-related problems, threats and attacks poses a serious threat to the security, defence, stability and competitiveness of states and the private sector. since most of the most obvious and disruptive cyber incidents are now politically motivated, and the vast majority of cyber incidents are primitive, and the threat to critical infrastructure is becoming increasingly complex, this is precisely why a robust protection system is needed. however, the eu and its member states face numerous political, legislative and organisational obstacles to developing a comprehensive and unified approach to cyber defence and cyber security, as common definitions, standards and tools are lacking in the sensitive and vulnerable area of cyber security.
in writing. − i support this resolution as cybersecurity and defence is a highly topical security issue in both the national and eu minds. the latest information technology is both good and bad. in view of the growing threat of cyber threats and the increasing frequency of attacks, the eu needs to play a more active role in initiating initiatives to strengthen cyber security. in particular, a comprehensive eu cybersecurity strategy should be developed. this strategy should be flexible and easily adaptable to continuous developments in order to enhance cybersecurity. another important aspect is the need to pursue closer cooperation with all institutions, private business, society, and to maintain a clear direction, political will.
in writing. − cyber-security and defence is a pressing issue in today’s increasingly digital world; however, there is no international model for responding to cyber-attacks. i voted in favour of this report because recent cyber-attacks against governments and corporations have demonstrated the need to take steps to ensure that the eu and its member states possess sufficient security measures to defend against potential cyber-attacks. maximum protection and preservation of digital freedoms and privacy of eu citizens is vital, as online freedom is a core aspect of respect for human rights. additionally, the protection of both national and eu security and defence initiatives, such as the common security and defence policy (csdp), should remain a top priority. coordination and cooperation between eu member states (especially between those who already have national cyber-security strategies in place) will go a long way towards ensuring the digital safety of the eu and its citizens. all eu institutions and agencies must be on the same page in terms of cyber-security – horizontal cooperation is key in achieving a common eu approach to cyber-defence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the role of the common security and defence policy (csdp) in the event of climate crises and natural disasters (csdp). the eu carries out operational missions in third countries on the basis of the csdp. the purpose of these missions is to maintain peace and strengthen international security, based on the civilian and military means provided by the member states. i support the proposals made to include the adverse impact of climate change and natural disasters on peace and security in all the strategic documents of the cfsp and csdp. i believe that the eu should develop its capacity to collect and analyse data, using the structures of the eu satellite centre and the eu intelligence analysis centre. i support calls on the commission to draw up contingency plans for the eu to respond to natural disasters outside the eu that affect eu security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the impact of climate change on global security, peace and stability. it is worth noting that in recent years, the issue of climate change as the greatest threat to global security has been eclipsed in public debate and policy dialogue by the economic and financial crises. the increasing frequency of extreme weather events in recent years has been increasing the cost to the global economy, not only in developing countries but also globally. european countries are no exception. in this context, the eu should make every effort to reduce the importance of disaster risk, paying particular attention to women and children, who are the most vulnerable in crises. it is worth noting that complex crises can be foreseen and should be prevented by a comprehensive approach covering the policies under the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common security and defence policy (csdp), as well as humanitarian and development assistance policies.
in writing. - i voted for this document. it is recognised that climate change has implications for global security, peace and stability. the increasing frequency of extreme weather events in recent years has led to an increasing cost to the global economy, not only in developing countries but also worldwide, both in terms of direct recovery and aid costs and in terms of indirect costs associated with increases in insurance, product and service prices. these events also pose a growing threat to international peace and human security. the fight against climate change through security measures can therefore be a positive one, but it is only one component of the eu's climate action, which aims to use political and economic means to mitigate and adapt to climate change.
in writing. − climate change has a clear impact on security, and while no conflict has been identified to date as being caused by climate change alone, the implications of natural disasters and climate change for international security must be taken into account. i therefore support the inclusion of the negative impacts of climate change and natural disasters on peace, security and stability in the strategic planning of the cfsp and the csdp, in order to strengthen the capacity for rapid response and coordination of action, to develop the military sector's expertise, analysis and planning and knowledge sharing in this area, and to assess the negative environmental impacts of industry and activities with a view to reducing them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the state of play of the negotiations on the eu-kazakhstan enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement. the new agreement aims to lay down detailed provisions for the further development of eu-kazakhstan relations in areas such as human rights, good governance and democratisation, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport. i support the proposal to support the implementation of political reforms and institutional capacity building, as well as the call for kazakhstan to remove tariff and non-tariff barriers in order to expand trade, in particular trade in services, and foreign investment. it is also necessary to increase technical assistance to kazakhstan in the field of water resources management. i agree that an effective dispute settlement procedure should be introduced to ensure that the agreement reached is respected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu and kazakhstan seek to deepen and expand their relations and closer cooperation is mutually beneficial. it is worth noting that kazakhstan is one of the key countries that has played a positive role in central asia, as it has made efforts to develop good neighbourly relations, to renew regional cooperation and to resolve bilateral issues through peaceful means. in this way, in pursuit of better democratic rights and principles of equality, kazakhstan is admitted to the venice commission of the council of europe. the kazakh authorities, in cooperation with ngos, have also taken important steps in western kazakhstan to improve the situation of the population in the region, especially the striking workers. this initiative by kazakhstan in the central asian region is not only commendable but also deserves further close cooperation and support from the eu. it is also important to note that the eu is kazakhstan's main trading partner and largest investor in the country. by clearly expressing its desire to move towards eu standards and its social and economic model, which will require comprehensive reform of the kazakh state and public administration, kazakhstan has already demonstrated its ability to achieve important results in poverty reduction, public health and education. it is expected that this positive initiative and influence of kazakhstan will not diminish in the future.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on the resolution on the negotiation of a more comprehensive eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement, because i am confident that the kazakh regime will see this resolution as a moral and political compromise of the eu, which in no way obliges it to respect human rights and to stop persecuting critics and dissidents of the regime, but rather allows it to subtly violate human rights and to explain this by the difficulties of its transition democracy. this resolution is out of date, it sends the wrong signal to kazakhstan and it is an ep mistake. i therefore abstained and would have supported the postponement of the adoption of this document.
in writing. − i voted for this document because the eu and kazakhstan are seeking to deepen and broaden their relations. closer cooperation should benefit both the eu and the people of kazakhstan. the negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement should provide for detailed provisions on the scope for cooperation and socio-economic development, as well as the necessary political and economic reforms, given the close links between development in the social and economic spheres. kazakhstan has played a positive role in central asia by making efforts to develop good neighbourly relations with neighbouring countries, to renew regional cooperation and to resolve bilateral issues through peaceful means. negotiating position ensure that the new partnership and cooperation agreement sets out detailed provisions for the further development of relations in all priority areas, including human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democratisation, youth and education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, environmental sustainability and water, and tackling common threats and challenges.
in writing. − kazakhstan is a growing economic and political regional power in central asia. the country possesses vast mineral reserves and deposits of fossil fuels, but is also looking to diversify and modernise its economy. i voted in favour of this report because it argues that the eu would be well advised to deepen relations with kazakhstan in the form of an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). such an initiative would bring significant economic benefits (reduced tariffs, foreign investment, energy cooperation, economic and development assistance) to both partners as well as increased socio-political stability in central asia. however, to achieve success in such a pca, kazakhstan must improve its standing on many critical issues. prior to the establishment of a pca, kazakhstan must reform its standards on human rights, democracy, and transparency of governance. on the economic side, kazakhstan must comply with all wto regulations and procedures to facilitate trade with the eu. additionally, increased environmental regulation and protection (especially in the realm of water conservation) is a must – the eu can provide technical assistance on this issue. more importantly, kazakhstan must strengthen its respect for rule of law and freedom of the press. the eu supports the country’s on-going efforts to strengthen workers’ rights and fight corruption.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the development of small-scale and traditional fisheries. in the context of the reform of the eu's common fisheries policy, it is necessary to establish rules for small-scale fisheries taking into account the specific characteristics and problems of such fisheries. small-scale fishing has a significant territorial, social and cultural impact on the mainland and islands. i support the proposals set out below to establish a community programme to support small-scale fisheries, to allocate an appropriate amount of the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) to this fisheries, and to give priority to projects that benefit all coastal communities. it is necessary to encourage the participation of young fishermen in the sector and to provide assistance in the field of vocational training. it is also important to establish support mechanisms to be used in case of emergency situations, such as natural disasters, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that small-scale fisheries should be given greater consideration in the reform of the cfp. the challenges and opportunities of the cap need to be taken into account more fully and all three pillars of the reform - the basic regulation, the cfp regulation and the financial instrument implementing the cap (currently the emff) - need to be amended. small-scale fisheries are usually characterised by certain features, among others: close links with the economy, social structure, culture and traditions of coastal areas and communities, fishing relatively close to the shore and short sea stays, a greater direct role of manual labour, etc. the current view is that the european commission is proposing to continue the centralised management of the cap, which often results in out-of-date guidelines that are poorly understood by the sector (they are not involved in the discussion or drafting of the guidelines), are difficult to implement and often have the opposite results. moreover, the proposal to introduce a compulsory common system of exploitation of resources does not take account of the very different real situation of fisheries in the european union. the proposed application of this system could have a very negative impact on certain small-scale fisheries, as the concept of 'small-scale fisheries' is narrow and does not reflect the real situation. it is therefore necessary to ensure a programme to encourage the participation of young fishermen and women in the sector and to create mechanisms that benefit all coastal communities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i agree that different rules for small-scale fishing should be established. small-scale fishing not only promotes social and economic cohesion and provides a source of livelihood for a large number of families, but is also a factor in the preservation of fishing communities in all coastal zones. i believe that in the fisheries sector it is important to adopt an approach that takes account of the biological, ecological and social levels in order to achieve a sustainable balance between the situation of existing resources in the various marine areas and the social and economic structure of coastal communities whose employment and well-being depend on fishing along the coast.
in writing. − small-scale and small-scale fisheries have been particularly badly affected by the economic and social crisis. however, in coastal regions it has remained a key factor in creating and maintaining jobs. in this context, i believe that the european maritime and fisheries fund should pay greater attention to small-scale fisheries. first, there is a need to focus more on social and economic objectives. it is necessary to ensure stability of markets and to create favourable conditions for the generation of higher incomes from small-scale fisheries. flexible and specific support mechanisms should be established to take account of the specific problems and needs of the sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a new policy guideline for the common external fisheries policy. the external policy of the cap is very broad and covers fish caught outside the eu and imported into the eu for food, fish caught in eu waters and exported, and fish caught in eu waters that have been processed in a third country before being consumed in the eu. the proposal aims to promote the sustainability of eu fisheries beyond eu waters, including the outermost regions. i agree that in order to ensure sustainable fisheries, it is necessary to improve the availability of data on the catches of fish stocks caught in the eu or destined for the eu market and to ensure that information on the catches of local fleets and those of third countries is available. i support the proposal to ensure that vessel owners contribute more to the cost of fishing rights. it is also necessary to ensure the effective financial management of the support to the sector provided for in the agreements and to provide for the suspension of payments in the event of failure to achieve results.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important that the eu's fishing interests are properly and lawfully pursued. the eu is still the world's largest market, has one of the largest fleets flying its flag and is often ranked among the top three fishing regions. nevertheless, new emerging markets are developing rapidly, especially in asia. many of them seem to be failing in their duty as flag, port and market states or even in their fundamental human rights, creating unfair, even unbridled competition. it is worth noting that the basic principle should be implemented outside the eu in accordance with the same standards as those applied to operators operating in the european union. similarly, if an rfmo applies a higher standard to eu vessels operating in its territory than the cfp, then the higher standards should be included in the cfp as a whole. new systems for the fair and equitable allocation of resources among rfmo members, based on transparent ecological and social allocation criteria, while ensuring that management and safeguard measures are effectively implemented and enforced by all market participants, need to be adopted as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - i voted for this document. i welcomed the commission's communication and the many positive proposals it contained to promote the sustainability of eu fisheries and related activities outside eu waters, including in the outermost regions. i believe that it is essential to coordinate foreign and cooperation policies in order to establish sustainable fisheries agreements and to create the necessary synergies to contribute more effectively to the development of the third countries concerned, since the maintenance of fisheries agreements and the search for new fishing opportunities in third countries should be a priority objective of the external fisheries policy.
in writing. - recognising that the external aspects of the eu's fisheries policy are most closely linked to fishing areas outside the european continent, i would like to draw attention to the ticking bomb in our own pockets. the baltic sea has become virtually an internal sea of the eu. there are a number of bilateral, multilateral agreements and eu legislation regulating this area. but the baltic coast is also scaling the russian coast. unfortunately, it cannot be said that this country has yet achieved an equivalent level of environmental protection and conservation of fisheries resources. this issue could become particularly relevant if russia decides to build a third nord stream gas pipeline to the kaliningrad region. i therefore urge the commission to be vigilant and to respond not only to developments off the coasts of other continents but also to look in its own pocket more often.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to increase the participation of eu citizens in the 2014 european parliament elections. the resolution calls on european political parties to propose candidates for the post of president of the commission before the european elections. the debate on these candidates is intended to be a major focus of the 2014 european parliament election campaign, thereby encouraging citizens to take a more active part in the elections and to vote. the aim is also to select a number of future european commissioners from among the newly elected members of the european parliament, thus more effectively representing eu citizens. the resolution also calls for a greater gender balance in the commission. i support the proposals set out here and the proposal to hold the 2014 european elections at the end of may instead of june, in order to give the european parliament more time to prepare for the next elections for the president of the european commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the commission's 2012 statement on the 2014 european elections, i believe it is important to encourage european political parties to nominate candidates for the post of president of the commission and to encourage member states to nominate both a male and a female candidate for this position. it is also important to further strengthen the political legitimacy of the parliament and the commission, taking into account their respective elections and the choice of their voters.
mr president, the human rights situation in iran has deteriorated rapidly in recent years and months. the lack of transparency concerning the recent imprisonment and death of the 35-year-old iranian blogger, sattar beheshti, has demonstrated that iran is flagrantly disrespecting the united nations international covenant on civil and political rights. the recent executions of many iranian citizens, who may not have received a fair trial, and the continuing mistreatment of the human rights lawyer and sakharov prize winner, nasrin sotoudeh, also cause great concern. i call on the iranian authorities to respect human rights and increase the transparency of their judicial and prison systems and to place a moratorium on capital punishment immediately.
i want to point out a few potential problems. the european patent office is concentrating on improving machine translation in the main european patent languages (german, english, french), but much less attention is paid to improving machine translation in the languages of smaller countries, so that a good quality translation, for example, into lithuanian, which is a particularly difficult language, may have to wait for many years. i would therefore think that countries like lithuania need to provide for a sufficient transition period to allow patent applicants and industry to move smoothly from human to machine translation. it is also necessary to take into account that the translation of a patent is published in the public domain, informing the public of the exclusive rights of the patent proprietor, and that an incorrect translation may mislead industrial undertakings and lead to undesirable distortions.
mr president, as we voted in favour of the eu macro-financial assistance to kyrgyzstan today, one of the country’s leading human rights defenders, azimjan askarov, remains behind bars. a 60-year-old human rights defender and member of the ethnic uzbek minority is serving a life sentence in prison, accused of organising violence and being given the standard treatment by the local police: severe beatings and denial of proper access to a lawyer. askarov’s individual case makes a mockery of justice in krygyzstan. i believe that krygyzstan needs to restore faith in its entire judicial system if it is to move forward. undoing the injustice suffered by askarov would be a symbolically important first step.
i voted for this important resolution. it is clear that the internet and new technologies are playing an increasingly important role in the lives of citizens in europe and around the world. access to the internet is becoming a fundamental human right and in a world of global networks, the european union must be a powerful actor with a clear strategy for defending digital freedoms in its relations with third countries. we are witnessing the battle for human rights moving into the digital space. the use of the internet and mobile communications, which are controlled by the authorities in an attempt to restrict freedom in various ways, has led to an increase in the incarceration of dissidents. digital freedoms are inseparable from such important human rights as freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. they are also necessary to ensure transparency and accountability for what is said and written in public space. the european union must therefore act. and i think this resolution is extremely important.
i voted for this deal. i'm absolutely certain that the agreement is not a betrayal of human rights or human rights defenders. the european union did not intervene in human rights abuses in colombia for economic gain, as some have tried to interpret. as you know, the agreement contains clauses that allow the suspension of the agreement indefinitely if serious human rights violations are detected. the european union is not perfect, and there are cases in which it is safe to call it a caricature or a travesty of democracy. in the future, therefore, colombia or peru may use the provisions of this treaty to demand that the european union respect, for example, the rights of migrants and threaten to suspend the free trade agreement if these demands are not met. the parties to the treaty thus renew their mutual commitment to human rights, which is a definite plus.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. in 2009, kyrgyzstan was rocked by a global crisis and a general uprising that overthrew the regime of president bakiyev. the international community has pledged financial support to the country in support of the efforts of the pro-democracy authorities to deal with the aftermath of these events. the eu has committed eur 30 million in macro-financial assistance, which, together with the reform programme, will help kyrgyzstan to reduce its short-term financing needs, achieve a stronger balance of payments and fiscal sustainability, promote sustainable growth and improve the efficiency and transparency of public financial management. half of this amount will be in the form of grants and the other half in the form of loans. i believe that the eu's proposed assistance should help implement the government's economic reform agenda and reduce the financial vulnerability of the country's economy. i agree that special attention should be paid to strengthening democracy and the protection of human rights in the country.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the economic policy conditions to be laid down in the memorandum of understanding will be linked to the union's macro-financial assistance. in order to ensure uniform conditions of implementation and effectiveness, the commission should be empowered to negotiate such conditions with the kyrgyz authorities under the supervision of the committee of member states provided for in regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - i voted yes. kyrgyzstan is considered to have made a significant step towards democracy following the 2010 democratic coup d'état. for the first time in the history of an independent country, a woman was elected head of state rosa otunbayeva. the eu therefore has an obligation to support the transition of this country towards deeper democratic consolidation in the country, as well as in the region. on the other hand, the eu, through its various programmes in support of democracy in kyrgyzstan, must constantly monitor the implementation of democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law in the daily life of the country. as a beacon of democracy in central asia, kyrgyzstan must address its own human rights abuses in order to become a reliable partner for the west and the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to align the implementation of the energy star programme with the new us-eu agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for stationery. under the new agreement, the programme will be operated under two separate product registration systems: products placed on the eu market will have to be registered by the european commission, while products placed on the us market will be registered by accredited third parties. energy star is an energy efficiency programme, and products qualifying for this programme use less energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it has reduced the electricity consumption of eu stationery products (computers, printers, copiers, scanners, etc.) sold in the last three years by 16% and saved around eur 1.8 billion in taxes. i believe that 'energy star' is a dynamic policy tool that is well suited to the ever-changing ict products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it aims to update the former 'energy star' programme on the harmonisation of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for stationery and to bring it into line with the eu-us agreement currently being updated on this subject. the former eu-us agreement expired on 28 december 2011 and the council decided to authorise the commission to negotiate a new five-year agreement with the united states. this new agreement should clarify the respective obligations of the member states and the commission in relation to the implementation of the energy star programme and consider alternative policy options. this is intended to contribute to the achievement of the energy efficiency targets of the member states and the union.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. pursuant to the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the harmonisation of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for stationary equipment, regulation (ec) no 106/2008 of the european parliament and of the council implements the energy star programme in the union. this regulation establishes union energy-efficiency labelling programmes for stationary equipment. i have agreed to the amendments to this regulation as the support from the energy star programme contributes to the achievement of the energy efficiency objectives of the member states and the union
in writing. − as we have repeatedly noted in our documents, the use of energy-efficient appliances is one of the main ways of achieving both economic and environmental objectives. consumers should therefore be sufficiently informed about such devices to be able to make their choice. the energy star label is well known in the european union and i am convinced that we must continue to promote its use.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the creation of a digital single market. e-commerce is now becoming an essential part of commerce and a key driver of competitiveness and technological innovation, creating many highly skilled jobs and enabling the eu to become a dynamic knowledge-based economy. the internet services could soon account for up to 20% of employment and economic growth in the eu, and i therefore agree with the need to rapidly remove obstacles to development in this area. it is necessary to facilitate cross-border access to products offered online, to address payment and delivery issues, and to protect and inform consumers. i agree with the need to facilitate dispute resolution procedures, to make the internet safer and to encourage investment in wireless connectivity, and i support the proposals set out in this paper for a pan-european system with harmonised data protection rules, a secure online payment system and an eu strategy on intellectual property rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the impact of the internet economy has grown tremendously in recent years. this is clearly shown by the figures: in some g8 countries, the internet has created 20% of economic growth and 25% of new jobs over the last five years. however, the eu digital single market has not developed as fast as it could have, and we have not exploited all the opportunities offered by the digital economy. the current legal uncertainty is holding consumers and businesses back from trading across borders. as indicated in the latest consumer performance index on e-commerce, consumers can save in 13 out of 15 product categories for which price data have been collected. the study also showed that consumers have at least twice as much choice when shopping online as when shopping offline. european consumers already earn around eur 11.7 billion a year from online shopping for goods alone (equivalent to 0.12% of eu gdp). if e-commerce were to grow to 15% of total retail trade and if barriers to the digital single market were to be removed, the overall benefit to consumer welfare would be €204 billion (equivalent to 1.7% of eu gdp). currently, about 35% of internet users avoid shopping online because of concerns about payment security, lack of legal certainty, etc. the creation of an eu trustmark online would be another step to further strengthen the foundations already laid by the above-mentioned measures.
in writing. - i spoke for this document. we live in a time of great economic and technological change. the so-called digital revolution has undoubtedly changed our lives in many ways. the new ways of doing business, of interacting with other people, of finding information, of comparing products and prices, of learning, and many other things have changed dramatically. the digital revolution has also changed the way businesses operate, and the impact of the internet economy in recent years has been enormous. economic growth, job creation, consumer opportunities, product diversity, affordability and business opportunities are simply not covered. however, the digital single market in the european union has not developed as fast as it could have without taking full advantage of the digital economy. the current legal uncertainty is holding consumers and businesses back from trading across borders. a well-functioning digital economy is, of course, essential for the overall functioning of the eu economy. however, the free movement of digital services is currently seriously hampered by the existence of uneven rules at national level, with businesses in the european union facing numerous barriers to cross-border trade, mainly due to the different rules applied in the member states in areas such as consumer protection, vat, regulation of specific products and payment transactions, and this document will aim to remove these barriers.
in writing. − the document adopted today rightly calls for more active action by both the eu institutions and the member states to improve the shared use of the digital space. this approach is indeed necessary, especially given that the digital space is borderless, but the rules applied by the member states often differ. we must therefore harmonise them as soon as possible. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to another problem which has been less emphasized in this report. this is the protection of consumers in the digital space. although we have discussed the various aspects of such protection on many occasions - the protection of children, the protection of the networks themselves, secure purchases, etc. - i am convinced that it is now necessary to start discussions on the protection of consumers in a single and integrated digital market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to improve access to credit for smes in support of internationalisation. smes in the eu create 75% of private sector jobs and have created as much as 80% of all new jobs in the last few years. however, only 25% of smes operate outside the member state in which they are established. the main reasons for this situation are the difficulty smes have in accessing information on foreign markets and on trade and investment opportunities abroad, and the lack of capital for most companies to start cross-border business. i support the proposals set out to allow smes to receive funding directly without using financial intermediaries and to allow these companies to benefit from simplified application procedures. i agree with the proposal to develop an eu export and import facility, under which additional support should be provided to smes seed capital, loans for new businesses, loan guarantees, export guarantees, etc. it is also necessary to encourage the private sector to be more active in financing smes. in order to improve the general awareness of the needs of smes, the collection of statistical data on the difficulties of these enterprises should be improved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out parliament's recommendations on improving access to investment finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). in the european union, smes account for 75% of private sector jobs and have created around 80% of all new jobs in the last five years. it is therefore surprising that only 25% of smes operate outside the member state in which they are established and less than 13% of them export to markets outside the eu. smes contributing to foreign direct investment are also few. several factors can be cited to explain the lack of internationalisation of smes. first, it is difficult for smes in the eu to obtain information on foreign markets and trade and investment opportunities abroad. second, many smes lack the capital to start operating globally, including financing cross-border business activities. in view of the above problems, i welcome the recent decision of the european commission to help small businesses to improve their market access opportunities in 2014-2020 through the enterprise competitiveness and smes programme. the new programme is expected to cost eur 2.5 billion. the programme could support around 40 000 enterprises and contribute to their internationalisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it is essential for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises wishing to engage in active export and import activities to have access to capital and to appropriate trade-related financing support. this is also essential for investing in third country markets and for increasing the ability of these companies to compete internationally. this document aims to improve the quality of information provided to smes and microenterprises on financing opportunities and trade financing instruments at national and eu level. the support provided to smes and microenterprises is expected to overcome the trade barriers that prevent eu companies from entering third country markets. in addition, the additional tailored import and export facility is expected to provide them with the opportunity to take advantage of all the growth and job creation opportunities associated with their internationalisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the establishment of the first eu strategy on digital freedom in external action, which aims to protect human rights in the digital space. communication online is intensifying both in the eu and globally, and new electronic social media can help to develop values such as access to information, freedom of expression, and encouraging people to engage in the development of democracy and human rights. digital freedoms are inherent in traditional human rights such as freedom of expression and assembly and therefore need to be protected. i support the proposals made to the commission to ensure that legal digital expression on the internet is not criminalised and that legislation is adopted to restrict such activity. i agree that the promotion and protection of digital freedoms must be integrated into all eu external action, funding and assistance policies.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the internet and new technologies are playing an increasingly important role in all our lives. in this digital world, there are several areas where the eu must act as a global player and exert its economic and political influence. given the potential of the open internet, while overly strict regulation would do more harm than good, it is necessary to update some rules to keep pace with technological developments and ensure democratic oversight. for example, ad hoc telephone and internet connections should be provided for the first critical hours following natural disasters or humanitarian crises. ict is also crucial for effective election monitoring. it is also important to note that the eu cannot credibly promote and defend digital freedoms in the world if they are not defended within the eu itself. although the eu is the world's most important market, the majority of internet companies are based in the us, forcing eu citizens to accept us consumer terms. the united states has a wide range of jurisdictions, including the united states, which are the largest providers of digital services in the world. this extraterritorial effect of us law should not limit the eu's ability to protect citizens' fundamental rights.
in writing. − several eu member states now consider internet access to be a fundamental human right. in this increasingly globalised world, access to the internet and digital freedom are vital tools that can facilitate everything from large-scale economic transactions to personal blog posts. the significance in foreign affairs of the internet and rapidly-developing digital technologies is becoming apparent quickly. many pressing developments regarding digital security exist. cyber-security and defence have become relevant issues, as online hackers have demonstrated their ability to threaten vital government and corporate structures. oppressive regimes have also harnessed digital technologies to monitor and control their populations. when guaranteeing the openness of the internet and the privacy of its users, we must ensure that cyber-security is not compromised and continue to condemn the use of digital technologies as a means of oppressing societies. i support the first eu digital freedom strategy because it will allow the eu to remain relevant and vigilant in the face of the digital security challenges of the 21st century.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of a regulation establishing a transitional regime for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries. the treaty of lisbon, when it entered into force, covered a large number of bilateral investment agreements with third countries, but did not provide for a clear transitional provision applicable to such agreements. i agree with the need to establish appropriate procedures and conditions to ensure that the agreements continue to operate, including dispute settlement procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, by a joint resolution at first reading, parliament gave its consent to the council regulation establishing a transitional regime for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries. in this way, parliament's position is further transmitted to the president, the council, the commission and the national parliaments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for additional macro-financial assistance to georgia of eur 46 million to help cover the country's external financing needs identified in cooperation with the international monetary fund. the european union has already paid georgia the same amount that was earmarked for the country's economic recovery following the 2008 military conflict with russia and the global financial crisis. the balance of payments and budgetary situation in georgia remain weak and i believe that the new assistance will help the country to address this problem, implement the government's economic reform agenda and reduce the financial vulnerability of the economy. i agree that the objectives of european union aid must be achieved by improving the efficiency and transparency of aid delivery. i support the proposal for georgia to adopt measures relating to the prevention of fraud and corruption in order to protect the eu's financial interests in relation to the assistance provided. i agree that the commission should exercise proper control over the granting of aid and that the european court of auditors should exercise proper audit.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the relations between georgia and the european union are an essential part of the european neighbourhood policy. georgia has requested union macro-financial assistance in view of its deteriorating economic situation and prospects. in order to comply with this request by georgia, it is necessary, in particular, that georgia adopt appropriate measures to combat fraud and corruption. it is also necessary that the commission exercises appropriate control and that the court of auditors performs an audit. in short, the conditions under which the eu provides macro-financial assistance must be consistent with both the union's fundamental principles and the challenges facing georgia. the union and georgia have recently started negotiations on an association agreement which is expected to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement currently in force. the union's macro-financial assistance will contribute to the development of georgia's economy and to the strengthening of the union's financial and economic institutions.
in writing. − i voted for this document because it is the basis of relations between georgia and the european union european neighbourhood policy. in 2006, the community and georgia agreed on a european neighbourhood policy action plan, which sets out the medium-term priorities for eu-georgia relations. in 2010, the union and georgia entered into negotiations for an association agreement which is expected to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement currently in force. the eu-georgia relations have been further strengthened by the recent launch of the eastern partnership. the extraordinary european council of 1 september 2008 confirmed the union's commitment to strengthening eu-georgia relations following the armed conflict between georgia and the russian federation in august 2008. since the third quarter of 2008, the georgian economy has been affected by the international financial crisis declining output, budget revenues and increasing external financing needs. at the international donors' conference on 22 october 2008, the international community committed to supporting the economic recovery of georgia in the light of a joint needs assessment by the united nations and the world bank. the union has announced that it will provide financial assistance to georgia of up to eur 500 million. the adjustment and recovery of the georgian economy is supported by financial assistance from the international monetary fund (imf). in september 2008, the georgian authorities agreed with the imf on a us$750 million reserve arrangement to support the georgian economy, making the necessary adjustments in the light of the financial crisis.
in writing. − as in the first reading in 2011, i am in favour of the proposal for an additional eur 46 million in macro-financial assistance to georgia under the commitment of the georgian donors' conference. it is a much-needed support to help mitigate the dual negative impact of the military conflict with russia and the global economic and financial crisis on the georgian economy. it is important that the commission actively support the appropriate absorption of this aid through economic convergence instruments with the eu in order to make it more sustainable. i hope that the remaining procedural issues between the council and the european parliament will be resolved as soon as possible and that the financial package will reach its addressee soon. at the same time, i hope that the new georgian government will continue to implement the necessary reforms, including the fight against corruption and fraud.
in writing. − the question of macro-financial assistance to georgia is very important for the concerned country itself and for its supporters. let me emphasise and remind you that georgia is developing its relations with the eu within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. georgia is also a member state of the eastern partnership. taking into account the substance of the revised neighbourhood policy and its ‘more-for-more’ principle, i believe that the eu should support georgia’s economic stabilisation. furthermore, macro-financial assistance for georgia will stimulate modernisation and reform efforts in this eastern neighbour and will help this country to achieve eu standards. this assistance is particularly vital for georgia in view of georgia’s deteriorating economic situation and with regard to the ongoing negotiations of the association agreement and the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with the eu. lithuania as the member state of the eu that will organise the eastern partnership summit in vilnius during its eu presidency in the second half of 2013 is actively seeking closer cooperation with its eastern neighbours. lithuania shares the european aspirations of these eastern partners and supports these neighbourhood countries on their way to the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to extend the mandate of the european maritime safety agency (emsa). the purpose of the agency is to prevent pollution from ships, to ensure safe navigation and to monitor and evaluate eu legislation in this area. the revised regulation will extend the mandate of the emsa to prevent and respond to environmental disasters such as oil and gas spills. it is also planned that emsa will contribute to the fight against piracy at sea and improve training for seafarers. the cost to european taxpayers would be much lower if safe navigation were ensured by emsa rather than by each national authority on its own. the use of emsa's marine observation systems to provide the necessary information to other policy specialists would be much more cost-effective than the development of separate systems. i agree that it is necessary to ensure that the additional mandate of emsa is commensurate with its budget and staffing levels.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the proposed update of the regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency (emsa). since the establishment of the agency in 2003, the eu has been actively responding to oil pollution and is preparing to do so in the future. emsa contributes to the safety of shipping and the prevention of pollution from ships at sea, including the monitoring and evaluation of relevant eu legislation. much of its work consists of recommendations to the commission and/or the member states. it is generally recognised that it is an efficient, well-functioning organisation that can save member states a lot of money by acting at european level and thus ensuring economies of scale. emsa also provides better opportunities for cooperation with neighbouring countries. we therefore voted in favour of the amendments to the regulation which will soon extend the remit of the european maritime safety agency (emsa). the agency will now have to help eu countries combat pollution at sea following an accident on oil and gas platforms, as well as fighting piracy and cutting red tape. in addition, emsa's activities aim to ensure safe shipping between all eu countries, and i therefore believe it is important to continue to ensure that the agency's tasks continue to be fully reflected in its budget and staff numbers.
in writing. − as we emphasised in the first reading, in the current state of the marine environment, with the increasing economic activity at sea and the resulting new threats, emsa can and must be the body that coordinates actions to protect the marine environment, prevent environmental disasters and take preventive measures and measures in the event of such disasters. i also continue to believe that emsa could be the organisation to coordinate actions with relevant third country bodies in similar areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which gives green light to a competitive european system and reduces costs for a european patent. also it is important to have a european patent with unitary effect, i.e. wide legal patent protection in the eu as patents for inventions with high market value are frequently subject to litigation; the lack of a single litigation system causes additional costs for the patent proprietor. i welcome this unanimous agreement between member states on the european patent after years of failed attempts for such an agreement. i agree that the european patent with unitary effect will broaden patent protection to all participating member states. this will increase business opportunities while opening up markets and contributing to the fulfilment of a true single market, which is necessary for the eu to get out of the recent economic crisis. moreover, the new system will help make the union a more attractive place to create and innovate, for both european and non-european inventors.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the eu has been working for more than a decade to create a common european patent system. the creation of a common patent system will in particular provide for much-needed simplification of the current system. this will reduce administrative barriers in europe and reduce the cost of patenting by up to 80%, thereby improving and protecting the free movement of goods in the internal market and facilitating innovation and entrepreneurship in europe. the high cost of granting european patents in some member states and the complexity of the process are the main reasons why patent holders are reluctant to apply for an eu patent. for example, the total cost of obtaining a european patent for a standard volume valid throughout the eu (including translation costs and the approximate costs for the patent agent and publication) is eur 22 000 26 000. the figures show that companies across the eu spend between €205 million and €230 million each year on translation, proofreading and professional expenses. the eu patent will not only reduce these costs to eur 680 per unit patent, but will also facilitate investment in research and development.
in writing. - i voted for this document. i believe that the creation of a common patent system will indeed, in particular, provide a much-needed simplification of the current system. secondly, it will reduce administrative burdens and patent costs in europe by up to 80%. this will enhance and protect the free movement of goods in the internal market and facilitate innovation and entrepreneurship in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's position on the commission's proposal for closer cooperation in the creation of a common patent system in the eu. a well-functioning patent system contributes to the development of a comprehensive economy. for several decades, member states have been working towards a common eu patent protection. in this context, it should be noted that the eu patent system is highly fragmented and not sufficiently competitive internationally. a european patent, which has been approved by 13 countries, is 13 times more expensive than in the united states and 11 times more expensive than in japan. therefore, during the consultation on the future patent system in europe, smes themselves drew attention to the need for specific support, in particular in relation to translation costs, patent research and legal protection. while this proposal is based on the working languages of the european patent office and has been developed after a considerable effort to reach a political compromise, it stresses the need to protect and promote as far as possible the english language, which is the most widely used in international trade relations. it is important that this regulation enters into force once the system of jurisdiction has been ratified by at least nine member states, including the three which have filed the most patent applications.
in writing. − i voted for this document because for almost half a century the member states have been working towards a common eu patent protection. the failure to reach an agreement on the community patent led to the so-called munich convention in 1973, which was subsequently signed by all the current eu member states. however, the centralised procedure provided for in the convention does not provide for the removal of the main obstacles to the improvement of the european patent system. in particular, it does not contribute to reducing the high level of legal uncertainty and the high costs associated with the granting and enforcement of patents. in view of these limitations, the patent system is highly fragmented and not sufficiently competitive internationally. it is sufficient to point out that a european patent, which has been approved by 13 countries, is 13 times more expensive than in the united states and 11 times more expensive than in japan. a well-functioning patent system, tailored to the real needs of users, is essential to boost the eu's economic growth and competitiveness. i also agree that specific measures should be put in place to help smes to access the european patent market and to benefit from innovation. legal instruments relating to generic patent protection therefore offer an excellent opportunity to meet the requirements of smes, especially in terms of costs and legal support.
in writing. − to ensure the competitiveness of eu industry and science, it is essential to ensure the best possible conditions for unitary patent protection throughout the european union. however, i cannot support this document because it does not take proper account of the specific features of the use of the less popular official eu languages. lithuanian, one of the oldest languages in use in the world, is sufficiently complex to allow the use of machine translation equipment to render accurately and clearly complex technical terms such as those used in patents. the use of such translation will undoubtedly cause additional hassle and costs for persons translating patents into lithuanian. i therefore abstained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a unified eu patent litigation system. under the system in place today, national patents are granted by the patent offices of the member states or european patents are granted by the european patent office (epo). once a european patent has been granted, it is broken down into a strand of national patents governed by national law. the system is considered to be very expensive and complex, involving disputes in more than one country and often leading to conflicting decisions. the proposal aims to harmonise the system of settling disputes and to establish a unified patent court for this purpose. such a court would help reduce the cost of litigation, save eu businesses considerable money and ensure legal certainty by interpreting the law in the same way. i support calls for member states to conclude negotiations and ratify as soon as possible the international agreement establishing a common patent court.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's own-initiative report on the possible dispute over the patent jurisdiction system. an efficient european patent system can make a significant contribution to economic growth through innovation. european businesses, especially smes, need such a tool to respond to the current economic crisis and remain competitive on a global scale. the european parliament and the council are now in agreement on the need to abandon the current fragmented patent system. to this end, the possibility of establishing a general patent court is being considered. the creation of a unified patent court would greatly reduce the cost of litigation, as parties would no longer have to be involved in litigation in different countries at the same time. the studies show that the proposed dispute settlement system would save european businesses a lot of money. a functioning common patent court could ensure legal certainty by providing a uniform interpretation of the applicable law. it is of particular importance for smes that the judicial system to be established is effective and at the same time ensures high-quality decisions. i believe that parliament should continue to support efforts to create a single patent market that would ensure legal certainty and strengthen the competitiveness of businesses internationally.
in writing. - i voted for this document. i believe that the creation of a court is an appropriate and successful way of creating a coherent system for the settlement of patent disputes. the unified patent court will help to reduce the cost of litigation by eliminating the need for parties to litigate in different countries at the same time. the studies also show that the proposed dispute settlement system would save european companies a lot of money. finally, a functioning common patent court will provide legal certainty by ensuring a uniform interpretation of the applicable law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for enhanced cooperation between eu member states (un) in the creation of common patent protection. today, such protection in the eu can be granted by the national patent offices of the member states that issue national patents or by the european patent office (epo). however, patents issued by the office must be accompanied by a translation and certified in each of the vcs where protection is sought. the cost of accreditation in the eu is about eur 193 million per year, which makes the system very expensive and complex. the current proposal aims to enable eu patent holders to apply to the epo for joint protection in the territory of 25 member states. such a patent will ensure the same level of protection for their inventions in all 25 member states, and applications will be possible in any eu language. the translation costs of the single european patent would eventually amount to only eur 680. i fully support the new arrangements proposed, which will not only save money and reduce administrative burdens, but also stimulate innovation in the eu. i support the proposals for lower patent registration fees for european smes and the creation of a common patent court. i also believe that full compensation for translation costs should be ensured. in order to protect against fraud, it is necessary to set a maximum permitted price for translation per page.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to include in eu law the safeguard clause and the stabilisation measure provided for in the association agreement with central america (ca). the safeguard clause in the agreement will allow the rate of the duty to be changed if, following the liberalisation of trade, imports are increased in such quantities that they cause significant injury to the eu industry producing the same product. the stabilisation measure for imports of bananas will allow the suspension of the preferential tariff until 1 january 2020 if the volume of exports from latin american countries to the eu market exceeds the set volume. the agreement will open up the eu market to imports, in particular of bananas, sugar and beef, and will increase the eu's export opportunities for dairy products, cereals, pigmeat and spirits. i agree with the need to fully respect the main international labour and environmental conventions in the process of liberalisation and to involve the european parliament and all stakeholders in the process. i support the proposal to include specific provisions on reporting, impact on employment, working conditions, fair trade and analysis of the impact on the outermost regions.
in writing. − i voted for this report because in 2007 the council authorised the commission to open negotiations between the eu and the latin american countries. negotiations were opened in order to effectively facilitate the gradual opening-up and expansion of markets so that all the sectors concerned could gradually adapt to the new trading situation. it is important to note that the agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause which provides for the possibility of re-establishing the rate of duty applicable under the most favourable treatment (mfn) if, following the liberalisation of trade under the agreement, imports are introduced in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause (or threaten to cause) serious injury to union producers of the like or directly competing product. the agreement provides for a stabilisation measure for imports of bananas which may suspend the application of the preferential rate of duty until 1 january 2020. given the provisions and the purpose of the agreement, it is important that this liberalisation process be conducted in full compliance with the main international labour and environmental conventions, that the regulation be implemented in the most transparent way possible and that all stakeholders, including industry, civil society organisations, non-governmental organisations, trade unions and other actors, be involved.
in writing. - i voted for this document. on 22 march 2011, the european commission signed an association agreement with six central american countries (costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama). the agreement provides for eu preferences for these countries under the new generalised scheme of preferences (gsp+). trade in certain agricultural products has also been fully or partially liberalised by the contracting parties. the provisions of the agreement mean that the eu market will be more open to imports, in particular of bananas, sugar and beef, and the eu will have more scope to export other agricultural products to these countries, such as dairy products, cereals, pigmeat and spirits.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that this first region-to-region agreement building an association between the european union and central america will contribute decisively to the integration of central america and strengthening the dialogue between both regions. i would like to underline that the trade part of the agreement plays a very important role for the further development of the central america region as it enhances economic relations between the two parts, considerably stressing that the current system of generalised preferences will be replaced by a reciprocal and gradual trade liberalisation system. i agree with the rapporteur that this agreement is not only the first one of its kind, but it accomplishes the objective of creating an appropriate context to provide social integration, cohesion and sustainable development, which are key elements to achieving economic consolidation, growth and social and democratic stability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and central america, on the other. the main objective of this association agreement (apa) is to contribute to the enhancement of regional integration and stability in central america, and to its economic, political and social development by promoting trade and investment. i support the aim of creating an eu-central america free trade area with a stable and predictable regime that encourages investment, greater participation of central america in world trade, efficient management of resources, environmental protection and increased competitiveness. at the same time, it is necessary to develop and strengthen human rights and democracy in the region. it is important to open a dialogue on the fight against drug trafficking and organised crime. i support calls on the commission to draw up an annual report on the aspects of the association agreement relating to the safeguarding of the principles of democracy and human rights. i agree that a general evaluation of this association agreement should be carried out over a period of five years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because regional, social, economic and cultural integration between the eu and central america (ca) is not only beneficial to both countries economically, but also promotes a political dialogue that determines whether democracy, the rule of law and respect for the human rights of citizens are respected. the eu and central america, as equal partners, must work together to combat inequality, poverty, promote inclusive development and address outstanding social, economic and political challenges. it is important to note that the new interregional dialogue opens up the possibility of dialogue on the fight against drug trafficking and organised crime. although social inequalities have been reduced in the countries of central america in recent years, full social cohesion will only be possible if education is ensured and levels of poverty, inequality and social exclusion are reduced. therefore, contributing to the revival of economic and social relations between the two regions and the integration of extractive structures is one of the main objectives of the agreement.
in writing. − i voted for this document because the eu-central america (ca) association agreement (aea) is an important precedent, since it is the first eu-ca signed by two regions since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. regional, social, economic and cultural integration through bilateral and subregional association agreements are the main objectives of the strategic partnership between the eu and the two latin american regions. in order to develop eu-latin america relations in a mutually beneficial way and to benefit all, it is essential that the respect for democracy, the rule of law and the human rights of all citizens be at the heart of the political dialogue. the madrid summit of may 2010 allowed the resumption of all negotiations with latin america, which had been frozen in recent years, and thus concluded the negotiations on this association agreement. the development of relations with latin america is mutually beneficial and has advantages for all eu member states.
in writing. − the eu is the primary investor, second largest trading partner, and primary development aid donor in central america. further development of relations with this region is mutually beneficial and can help states in both parties. the recently concluded association agreement (aa) of may 2010 serves as a trade, political dialogue, and cooperation agreement. it represents a step in the right direction towards the reduction of economic barriers and facilitation of trade between the eu and central america – it will further stimulate the flow of services, goods, and investments. the aa stipulates that the safeguarding of human rights, democracy, and rule of law as well as increased socio-economic cohesion are necessary prerequisites for economic cooperation. additionally, environmental protection must be guaranteed in the face of increasing economic cooperation. finally, the aa allows for increased eu aid and assistance in reducing inequality, poverty, discrimination, corruption, and social exclusion. these efforts, coupled with an intensified focus on streamlining education, modernising infrastructure, and strengthening the justice system, will result in a more stable and prosperous central america with a stronger relationship with the european union. i voted in favour of this report for these reasons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to include in eu law the safeguard clause and the stabilisation measure provided for in the association agreement with colombia and peru. the safeguard clause in the agreement will allow the rate of duty to be changed if, following the liberalisation of trade, imports are increased in such quantities that they cause significant injury to a competing eu industry producing the product. the stabilisation measure for imports of bananas will allow the suspension of the preferential tariff until 1 january 2020 if the volume of exports from latin american countries to the eu market exceeds the threshold. i agree that the liberalisation process must fully respect the main international labour and environmental conventions and involve the european parliament more in the negotiations on the trade agreements themselves. i support the proposal to include specific provisions on reporting, impact on employment, working conditions, fair trade and analysis of the impact on the outermost regions. it is also necessary to assess the compliance of colombia and peru with social and environmental standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because developing relations with latin america is mutually beneficial and brings benefits to all eu member states. on 19 january 2009, the council authorised the commission to open trade negotiations with the andean community member states, which led to the conclusion of the trade agreement with colombia and peru. this agreement provides, inter alia, for the reduction and eventual abolition of customs duties in the trade of bilateral partners. it also provides for a safeguard clause under which preferential tariffs may be suspended or abolished if such trade liberalisation results in an unexpected increase in imports which would worsen the situation of european industry. these bilateral safeguards were adopted in order to ensure security where market liberalisation requires time for the industry to adapt to new conditions. in particular, these conditions are granted a validity period of 10 years. the implementation of this agreement requires full respect for international labour and environmental conventions, with emphasis on the role of trade unions, ngos and civil society organisations.
in writing. - i voted for this document. on 23 march 2011, the european commission signed a trade agreement with colombia and peru. this agreement has a significant impact on the agricultural sector, in particular the corresponding impact on banana exports to the european market. the safeguard clause provided for in the agreement should be transposed into european union law in order to avoid serious disturbances on the markets concerned. the agreement also provides for even lower customs duties for the european union on imports of bananas from these countries, thus making the contractual conditions for latin american exports to the european market even more favourable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of a trade agreement between the eu, its member states and colombia and peru. this agreement is part of the process of strengthening the relations between the european union and the countries of the latin american and caribbean region and of building a stronger partnership between these regions. during the negotiations, which began as early as 2007, the eu achieved many of its objectives, including the abolition of high tariffs, the removal of technical barriers to trade, the liberalisation of services markets, the opening of public procurement markets and commitments to implement labour and environmental standards. the agreement will give european union companies the same operating conditions as other competitors in the region, such as the us, colombia and peru, and will allow them to gain greater access to the eu market, especially for the export of agricultural products such as bananas, sugar and rum. the newly established bilateral dispute settlement mechanism will ensure a transparent and predictable environment for eu operators and investors operating in the region. i agree that it is necessary to ensure that all signatories to the agreement carry out appropriate monitoring of the respect for human rights and democratic values.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because long-term cooperation between the eu and the andean countries is an important factor in contributing to the strengthening of europe's role in the world. the agreement gives eu companies access to relatively small but growing markets. between 2006 and 2010, eu trade with colombia and peru increased by 10%. the agreement can also be seen as a means of establishing closer relations with the countries of central and latin america, particularly in trade. it is also important to note that the sectors that will benefit most from increased access to the colombian and peruvian markets, namely machinery, transport equipment (including certain cars), chemicals and, above all, services, are the classic eu export sectors. the three sectors account for more than 80% of current eu exports. in the services sector, the telecommunications, construction, distribution and financial services sectors will benefit the most. while the nature of the agreement is primarily economic, human rights provisions, which cover the core labour standards set by the ilo and the multilateral environmental agreements, must also play an important role. it is therefore essential that the parties ensure sufficient technical and financial capacity to help ensure full compliance with the sustainability standards set out in the trade agreement and that human rights review, monitoring and evaluation are carried out.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the prevention of age-related diseases in women. the proposal aims to ensure a healthy ageing of the eu population through the provision of quality healthcare and preventive measures to encourage older people to remain independent for as long as possible. older women are much more likely than men of the same age to suffer disabling illnesses, such as fractures, rheumatoid arthritis, cancer, and diabetes. i agree that prevention and information on risk factors must be key aspects of the strategy. the promotion of healthy eating, the importance of physical activity and the fight against smoking and alcohol abuse are key objectives in reducing the number of age-related diseases. i also support the proposals for promoting the activities of retired elderly people in order to encourage them to be active and not feel excluded from social and professional life. it is also important to improve the structure of sports or public transport to adapt it to the needs of older people and to encourage them to use the internet and thus continue to participate in social life.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the active ageing of the european population makes it important to apply preventive measures. despite a higher rate of longevity, older women are much more likely than their male counterparts to suffer from disabling diseases: fractures due to osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, stroke, urinary incontinence, cancer. the same is true of disability, which is caused by the progressive decline of psychomotor responses, thinking disorders and dementias (e.g. alzheimer' s disease). the number of such cases has been increasing over the years. the main risk factors to be considered in terms of interdependence are hypertension, hyperglycaemia, sedentary lifestyle, smoking, overweight and obesity, excessive cholesterol and hormonal changes in women due to menopause. it is therefore essential to promote healthy lifestyles. the eu institutions need to work with national and local partners to bring prevention strategies to the wider public that aim to encourage good behaviours that contribute to healthy and active ageing. in addition, clinical trials should take greater account of gender, not only by highlighting the predominance of certain female-specific pathologies, but also, in particular, the factors that cause and affect them. statistics show that many factors, both physical and psychological, are involved in age-related diseases in women, and the current situation clearly needs to be improved at both local and national level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because the population of the european union is gradually ageing due to low fertility rates and increasing life expectancy. the fact that 2012 has been declared the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations shows that this area is increasingly being integrated into european policies. the aim is to promote healthy ageing for all by providing quality healthcare and preventive measures to help older people to remain independent for as long as possible. the results of the eurobarometer survey 'active ageing' (2012) show that the definition of 'young person' and 'older person' varies between countries. the average european is considered 'old' at the age of 64, and 'not older' at 41.8. despite their longer life spans, older women are much more likely than their male counterparts to suffer from disabling illnesses, such as fractures due to osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, stroke, cancer, and so on. the same is true of disability, which is caused by the progressive decline of psychomotor responses, thinking disorders and dementias (e.g. alzheimer' s disease). the number of such cases has been increasing over the years. we must therefore pay more attention to older women.
in writing. - the document i supported was adopted at the right time. the eu has declared this year as the year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, as it is projected that by 2060 almost a third of the eu population will be over 65 years old. as a result, as living conditions improve and life expectancy increases, older people become more socially active. statistics show that women live longer, which may lead to higher health costs. there is also a trend towards women being more affected by chronic and disabling diseases. these factors severely limit the active social life of older women. i therefore fully support the need to provide more intensive health care for older women, who are more likely to be lonely, especially in the regions of the member states. also take the necessary early prevention measures increase investment in research, disease prevention, education, psychological support and the full integration of women, especially single women, into social life. in addition, it is necessary to ensure equal pay for women and men at working age, which does not create the conditions for unequal benefits in old age.
in writing. − older women are particularly vulnerable to gender stereotypes and therefore face more difficulties in reaching middle age, when their physical activity declines. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr angelilli, on his excellent work, and i think it is very important to draw attention in a timely manner to the problems of an ageing society and to address the problems of older women in particular. i think it's imperative that we take gender into account in health care. research has shown that older women after menopause are more likely than men to develop disabling conditions such as osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, stroke, urinary incontinence, and cancer. it is very important to note that the symptomatology of some chronic diseases (e. g. cardiovascular diseases) is quite different in women and men. older women must have access to cancer prevention programmes (e.g. breast cancer, colon cancer) which are implemented in the member states. research shows that older women are less likely to use secondary prevention programmes because of lack of awareness of the severity of the problem and less access to services. all of these factors are often linked to women's education and lower incomes. older women should therefore be given all the necessary information on preventive measures by their family doctor and should be given the practical opportunity to undergo preventive examinations in good time, avoiding long queues. chronic diseases in women are not inevitable, but they can be significantly reduced by taking preventive measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because of the ambition to limit antimicrobial resistance and to develop new antimicrobial therapies. antibiotic resistance is on the rise in the eu, causing around 25 000 deaths and €1.5 billion in healthcare costs each year. i support the 12 specific action plans submitted by the commission to promote the prudent use of these medicines in medicine and veterinary medicine. it is important that member states not only develop coordinated strategic action plans for the prudent use of such substances, but also provide patients with new antimicrobials. i agree that it is important to improve the eu legislation on veterinary medicines and to develop an eu animal health act. i also support the proposal to have a monitoring system at european level in the medical and veterinary sectors in order to obtain comprehensive, reliable and comparable data on the effects of these substances. it is necessary to promote the exchange of best practice, closer communication between doctors and training in the veterinary and medical sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the transnational nature of infectious diseases makes the growing problem of drug-resistant microbes a global one and one that must also be tackled on a global scale. it is also essential that the eu takes concerted action to tackle this problem. over the past decade, the european council conclusions and european parliament resolutions have repeatedly called for the prudent use of existing antimicrobials and for initiatives to develop new antimicrobials. however, there is no single solution to the aml (antimicrobial resistant material) problem and a diversified approach and better tools are needed. these measures should include improved monitoring and information on drug resistance, as well as more effective infection control measures, including the use of vaccines, the promotion of research and the development of new antimicrobials without compromising patient safety. the work of the transatlantic task force on antimicrobial resistance (tatfar) is an excellent model for international cooperation in the field of amr and i believe that similar multilateral and bilateral commitments should be encouraged.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the increasing antimicrobial resistance (amr) is a serious problem caused by a number of interrelated factors. amm has effects on both humans and animals and its effects are dangerous for human and animal health. i therefore advocated this document because the main objective of the amr strategy is to maintain the efficacy of existing antimicrobials by using them responsibly, only in the right therapeutic doses when really necessary and for the specific time, and by reducing the use of antimicrobials in general, and particularly the use of antimicrobials of critical importance in medicine and veterinary medicine. in addition, it is recommended to strengthen the monitoring of antimicrobials for use in infants and children and in clinical practice where this is necessary to monitor and evaluate the use of antimicrobials.
in writing. - i voted for this document without hesitation, because the increase in bacterial resistance to antimicrobials is a serious and threatening problem that can only be tackled by a complex of measures. for more than eight decades, antibiotics have been used and applied in medicine, veterinary medicine, animal husbandry, agriculture, and horticulture. this seems to have been done rather carelessly, without anticipating the possible consequences of changing the resistance of the bacteria. so the result today is a lot of death and damage to health systems, and an ongoing situation where disease-causing microbes are evolving and adapting, many of the antimicrobials that have been used are no longer effective, and relatively few new ones are being developed. i therefore strongly support the need, as expressed in the resolution, to maintain the effectiveness of existing antimicrobials and to introduce more effective educational programmes that will change the attitudes and use practices of patients, farmers and doctors. i also hope that the european commission will take measures to encourage research and interinstitutional cooperation in this area.
in writing. − resistance to antimicrobials produces undesirable effects. more and more people in europe and beyond are recovering from serious illnesses, and additional treatment is costly. consumers are unaware that they are creating the conditions for resistance by taking antibiotics when other treatments are available. the responsible use of antibiotics in animal husbandry is equally important. there are still cases where animals raised for meat are given antibiotics for preventive purposes. this creates antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria that could be very deadly in the future. i voted for this report because it covers all the main aspects of this issue. first, it promotes the responsible use of antimicrobials and the prevention of the spread of infections. second, the development of new antimicrobial drug elements that will help reduce the resistance of infectious agents to drugs. the third element of particular importance is the exchange of examples of work practice at both national and international levels.
in writing. − the use of antimicrobials in excess of their intended use increases the resistance of microorganisms to these medicines. the increasing resistance to antimicrobials is a major public health problem worldwide. the results of the lithuanian study suggest that only 9.5% of the time a family doctor makes a rational choice of antibiotics for infectious diseases. in less than half of the cases, only 42.9%, antibiotics were prescribed for the appropriate indications. i think the situation is quite similar in all the new member states. antibiotic resistance is a natural phenomenon caused by bacterial gene mutations, and overuse and misuse of antibiotics accelerates the emergence and spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. resistant bacteria can spread and cause infections in people who do not take antibiotics. as a result, diseases that were once easily controlled become more difficult and take longer to treat, and in some cases, are even incurable (for example, drug-resistant tuberculosis). responsible use of antibiotics can help prevent the development of resistant bacteria and preserve the effectiveness of antibiotics for future generations. the increased use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine is a cause for concern. member states should implement educational programmes for family doctors, veterinarians and the general public on the use of antibiotics and on when to use antibiotics and when not to use them. i support this initiative.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a member of the european parliament's committee on agriculture, i wish to speak on a report on the protection of animals during transport which is important for farmers. since 1977, the european union has had rules on animal welfare during transport designed to eliminate technical barriers to trade and to ensure a high level of community agriculture. for this reason, animals from third countries should be subject to strict controls and supervision in order to ensure that european producers are in a stable competitive position vis-à-vis them. but what can help more rural areas to achieve sustainable development, especially in new member states like lithuania, is to slaughter animals and process meat as close as possible to where they are raised. the transport of meat and other animal products is a technically easier and more economically rational solution than the transport of live animals. and if so, then measures should be taken to promote local sales and shorten the food delivery process. union policy in this area should aim at supporting local processing, small local slaughterhouses and local meat processing. this will allow the delivery of animals for slaughter to be carried out over short distances. this in turn will help to stimulate small farms and, as one of the objectives of the report, will significantly reduce the transport time of animals below the expected eight hours, including loading and unloading.
when we adopted the 2012 budget a year ago, we knew we were adopting a deficit budget. at the end of the year, the european commission had only to find that nine billion euros were still outstanding. the european parliament wants the eu to honour its financial commitments in full. however, member states have only agreed to collect €6 billion, so not all the bills will be paid this year. the remaining financial commitments of the european union will be discharged as soon as possible, early next year, as part of the agreement between the three institutions, parliament, the commission and the council. our experience with the 2012 budget is a serious signal to everyone. the excuse is the well-known financial crisis. but if this practice continues and people lose confidence in the european union, the crisis will only worsen.
today we approved a new draft budget for 2013. this is again a deficit budget, as the european union's commitments are higher than the budget's revenue. moreover, the 2013 budget is smaller than this year's budget, amounting to only 0.99% of eu member states' gnp. the 2012 budget, including the additions approved today, is 0.6% higher in terms of gnp. it is, however, welcome that the appropriations for some headings in the 2013 budget are higher than in this year's budget. overall, the allocation for competitiveness is 4.8% higher, and specifically, for example, for the seventh framework programme (fp7) 6.4% higher, for the trans-european networks 6.3% higher than in 2012. the european commission has warned us that the budget will again be short of funds, and that we will have to monitor the budget during the year and be prepared to review it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the council position adopted on 6 december 2012 on draft amending budget no 6/2012 (17295/2012 c7-0401/2012) and other agreements, parliament found that the council's amended draft amending budget no 6/2012 reflected the agreement reached at the budgetary trialogue on 29 november 2012. this proposal was intended to include eur 2,9 billion and to provide for additional appropriations compared to the approved payment appropriations provided for in the initial 2013 budget, without prejudice to the proper implementation of the 2013 budget. it is important to note that the budgetary authority has recognised that the additional payments of eur 2,9 billion are to be met by the payment claims received by the commission and form an integral part of the agreement reached during the trialogue.
in writing. - i voted for this bill. draft amending budget no 6/2012 for the general budget 2012 includes an update of the revenue forecasts. it provides for an increase of almost eur 9 billion in payment appropriations under expenditure categories 1a, 1b, 2, 3a and 4 of the multiannual financial framework, following the new adjustment of the own resources and other revenue forecasts, in order to cover the remaining needs at the end of the year. the issue of other payment needs in parallel has already been partially addressed by the transfer of the total payment appropriations totalling eur 419,7 million (dec 30/2012). the difference in own resources and the increase of eur 3 525 million in revenue from fines and interest result in an increase in the total net revenue of eur 3 080,8 million, and therefore the impact of gni 6 on the gni-based contributions of the member states will be correspondingly lower.
in writing. - i voted for this document. i welcomed the overall agreed level of commitment appropriations, which is eur 1.1 billion higher than in the first council discussion. i support the budget for next year to ensure that the bulk of its political priorities are met, in particular by focusing on the implementation of the eu's commitments to promote adequate growth and employment as set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. italy is to receive eur 2 658 495 to support the 502 workers made redundant by ten companies active in the production of vehicles and equipment. the global financial and economic crisis led to a decrease of 37% in the production of motorcycles in europe between 2007 and 2009, and a decrease of 6% in the production of motorcycles and mopeds in italy between 2009 and 2010, which affected the emilia romagna region. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including measures to integrate workers into the labour market, i.e. vocational guidance, active assistance in job search, training and retraining, assistance in finding employment in the same sector, promotion of entrepreneurship and job search allowance. i support the proposals set out to ensure greater efficiency, transparency and visibility in the use of egf funds. the egf-funded measure complements actions funded by the structural funds and i therefore support the calls on the commission to ensure that eu funding is not duplicated. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. the commission is proposing to grant sweden eur 5 454 560 to support the redundancies of 1 350 workers in the automotive industry. the european market share in the global passenger car market is declining, with the number of new passenger cars registered in the eu in 2012 being 2,8% lower than in 2011. the financial assistance will be used to finance a tailor-made package of services, which will include job-search support, vocational guidance, training, support for entrepreneurship and mobility allowances. it is essential that the training offered is in line with the needs of the labour market and the prospects of the region. i support the proposals set out to ensure greater efficiency, transparency and visibility in the use of egf funds. the egf-funded measure complements actions funded by the structural funds and i therefore support the calls on the commission to ensure that eu funding is not duplicated.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation was adopted on 19 october 2012. the swedish authorities argue that the reasons for the redundancies are the major structural changes in the world trade system due to globalisation, which have a lasting impact on the automotive sector. it is noted that, in addition to globalisation, saab was struggling for several years with financial problems and was eventually declared bankrupt after its owner, general motors, decided not to transfer the licence to a potential chinese buyer of saab. i welcomed the fact that the swedish authorities emphasised the complementarity of the package of measures with the usual services for the unemployed. in addition, the training offered is aligned with future skills and qualifications needs in the region and will focus on growth areas such as green jobs.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. the commission has decided to grant spain eur 1 299 545 to support the redundancies of 500 workers in the metalworking industry. the global financial and economic crisis has led to a decline in demand and production of metal and metal products. in 2009 in spain, compared to 2008, the production of the metal sector decreased by 24,6% and the production of metal products by 23,3%. in 2009, spain lost 180 000 jobs in the metal sector, followed by a further 60 000 in 2010, representing 15% of total employment in the sector. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including measures to integrate workers into the labour market, i.e. vocational guidance, active assistance in job search, training and retraining, assistance in finding employment in the same sector, promotion of entrepreneurship and job search allowance. i support the proposals set out to ensure greater efficiency, transparency and visibility in the use of egf funds. the egf-funded measure complements actions funded by the structural funds and i therefore support the calls on the commission to ensure that eu funding is not duplicated. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. - i voted for this document. spain is one of the member states most affected by the global financial and economic crisis. the manufacturing industry, in turn, has been one of the most affected sectors and its situation is deteriorating. the global financial and economic crisis has led to a bleak outlook for the industrial sector, which has led to a decrease in demand and production of metal and metal products. the decline in the metal products sector of this nature is unprecedented at the moment, as new orders from other sectors that have been affected by the economic downturn have decreased sharply. i have agreed to this proposal to mobilise funds for spain, as the coordinated package of personalised services to be funded includes measures for the reintegration of 500 specific workers into the labour market.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to 'support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system'. the commission intends to grant denmark eur 1 370 910 from the company 'flextronics international denmark', which provides design and electronics manufacturing services to electronic equipment manufacturers, to support the redundancies of 153 employees. today, the desire of electronics manufacturers to move their production to asia is becoming more and more pronounced, and this practice is also characteristic of the company 'flextronics'. the singapore-based parent company decided to close the danish plant and expand its activities outside europe. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including labour market integration measures, i.e. general education and vocational training for unskilled workers, vocational training for skilled workers, technical courses for technicians, special courses for managers and engineers, preparatory courses for future entrepreneurs, and day-long courses. i support the proposals set out to ensure greater efficiency, transparency and visibility in the use of egf funds. the egf-funded measure complements actions funded by the structural funds and i therefore support the calls on the commission to ensure that eu funding is not duplicated. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. - i agreed to this. the redundancies at flextronics denmark are a direct consequence of the structural changes in the essential world trade system relating to the services provided by flextronics denmark. the recent trend of electronics manufacturers to relocate to asia is also characteristic of flextronics. the singapore-based parent company decided to close the danish plant and expand its activities outside europe. in view of these circumstances and the declining european markets for electronic products in general and for printed circuit boards in particular, the parent company decided in august 2011 to close down the company 'flextronics denmark'. i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise funds for denmark as the harmonised package of personalised services to be funded includes 153 supporting measures for the reintegration of workers into the labour market, such as: assessment of qualifications and competences, general education and vocational training for unskilled workers, vocational training for skilled workers, technical courses for technicians, special courses for managers and engineers, preparatory courses for future entrepreneurs, business planning and consultancy, assistance for dismissed individuals and day-care.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. an amount of eur 2 942 680 is intended to be granted to romania from sc nokia romania, a company active in the mobile phone retail sector, to support the redundancies of 1416 employees. in recent years, the eu has been moving its it activities to asia. the finnish headquarters of 'nokia corporation' has developed a strategy to move its production sites to third countries outside europe. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including labour market integration measures, i.e. registration of jobseekers, information, advice and career guidance, job search allowances, training, entrepreneurship promotion, financial support for self-employment and financial support for people with children. i support the proposals set out to ensure greater efficiency, transparency and visibility in the use of egf funds. the egf-funded measure complements actions funded by the structural funds and i therefore support the calls on the commission to ensure that eu funding is not duplicated. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. - i said yes to this proposal. the romanian authorities argue that over the last few years there has been a general trend in europe to shift activities in the information technology sector to asia. in order to take account of market developments, the headquarters of 'nokia corporation' in finland has developed a strategy to relocate its production sites as close as possible to the markets. the main reason for redundancies is therefore the relocation of activities in the sector to third countries outside europe. the harmonised package of tailor-made services to be financed includes measures to reintegrate 1 416 affected workers into the labour market, such as pre-dismissal services such as jobseeker registration, information, counselling and career guidance, mobility allowances, compensation for transport costs, job search allowances, training, traineeship allowances, financial support for certification of training programmes, encouragement of entrepreneurship, financial support for self-employment, care and assistance to the employee after employment and financial support for people with children.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. austria is to receive eur 5 200 650 from 105 companies operating in the mobile social services sector in the austrian region of styria for the redundancies of 305 employees. they were dismissed because of the cuts in the social budget of styria in response to the financial crisis. the budget reduction directly affected styria's mobile social services for the disabled and mobile youth work providers. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including measures to integrate workers into the labour market, i.e. vocational guidance, active assistance in job search, training and retraining, assistance in finding employment in the same sector, promotion of entrepreneurship and job search allowance. i support the proposals set out to ensure greater efficiency, transparency and visibility in the use of egf funds. the egf-funded measure complements actions funded by the structural funds and i therefore support the calls on the commission to ensure that eu funding is not duplicated. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it proposes to mobilise the egf for austria to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system due to globalisation. the reduction in the social budget has had a direct impact on styria's mobile social services for the disabled and mobile youth work providers. following budget cuts, styria's social service providers first reduced their scope of operations and then started to lay off staff from mid-2011. the most affected and suffering are the small service providers, who specialise in only one or a few social assistance areas and are exclusively dependent on land and municipal benefits. furthermore, the austrian authorities argue that the redundancies were not planned because they were prompted by the decision of the regional government of styria to reduce public funding for disabled people and youth work. the harmonised package of personalised services to be financed includes measures foreseen for the reintegration of 350 workers into the labour market, such as vocational guidance and promotion, active job search, individual training including traineeships and entrepreneurship training, training allowances and daily allowances for training and job search.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. the commission has decided to grant a grant of eur 5 346 000 to finland to support the redundancies of 1 000 employees in nokia plc, a company active in the mobile phone sector. the main reason for the redundancies was the relocation of the company to a non-european third country. mobile phone assembly is being moved to asia. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including measures to integrate workers into the labour market, i.e. vocational guidance, active assistance in job search, training and retraining, assistance in finding employment in the same sector, promotion of entrepreneurship and job search allowance. i support the proposals set out to ensure greater efficiency, transparency and visibility in the use of egf funds. the egf-funded measure complements actions funded by the structural funds and i therefore support the calls on the commission to ensure that eu funding is not duplicated. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of finland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system due to globalisation. the main reason for redundancies is the transfer of functions within the sector to third countries outside europe. the assembly of mobile phones, previously carried out in the cities of sal and cluj, has now been moved to asia. the production of components and the production by subcontractors has already been relocated to non-european countries. the transfer of production abroad also includes design and product development. nokia plans to move assembly to its asian plants, where most of the component suppliers are located. the harmonised package of tailor-made services to be implemented will therefore include measures to support the reintegration of 1 000 workers into the labour market, such as job-search guidance, vocational training and retraining, entrepreneurship promotion, support for starting a business, mobility assistance, recruitment services in a service centre, wage subsidies, a system for collecting data on companies, career guidance, the identification of professional qualifications and competences and the assessment of employability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on european statistics on security against crime. it aims to establish a common framework for the production of eu statistics on security against crime. under this system, member states will have to collect, process and transmit eu security and crime data obtained from household and individual surveys. data are not available at eu level at present, so the survey is planned for 2013. i agree with the importance of a common eu-wide model that allows comparison of the data obtained and avoids duplication of work and the associated costs. as the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs believes that there are problems with the methodology for collecting statistics, the questions appear to be inconsistent and inaccurate and leave a great deal of room for interpretation, and also in view of the unconvincing arguments put forward by the commission in reply to parliament's questions on this subject, i support the proposal to reject this commission proposal. i agree with the suggestions that the measure must be credible, clear and based on an analysis of the economic benefits of the funds allocated and the expected result. i also believe that surveys will only be useful if they are carried out in all member states without exception. the commission should provide clear and detailed answers to the questions referred to in this paragraph when preparing a new proposal on this subject.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on the new commission legislative proposal on the compilation of crime statistics. the new proposal aims to create a common european statistical system for collecting data on crime threats, based on surveys of individuals and households in all eu countries. after examining this proposal, parliament concluded that, while such a common european data collection system is necessary, the current commission proposal was not sufficiently well thought out and prepared, and therefore called on the commission to withdraw this proposal and to submit a new, improved legislative proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the common statistics of the eu are an important basis for the development of eu policy, and this is even more true in the field of criminal law. however, the need to have such data does not imply that unlimited powers will be granted. any proposed measure must be methodologically sound and comprehensive and based on a proper analysis of the economic benefits of the funds allocated and the expected result.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because ground services at airports are essential to ensure the smooth operation of an airport. ground service personnel shall be responsible for flight safety, technical flight safety and counter-terrorism. according to the commission, the turnover of the ground handling sector worldwide is around eur 50 billion. the number of people employed in this sector in europe is estimated to be at least 60 000. on 1 december 2012, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation on groundhandling services which should replace directive 96/67/ec. the aim of the regulation is to prevent flight delays and to improve the quality of passenger services. the legislative proposal aims to prevent wage cuts in the ground handling sector and to encourage the conversion of temporary jobs into permanent jobs, to prevent wage dumping, which threatens flight safety standards, the smooth operation of airports and, ultimately, the safety of flights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the allocation of slots at european union airports. currently, about 70% of flight delays are caused by problems at airports with preparing aircraft for a regular flight; airports are no longer able to serve passengers properly. if current trends continue, air traffic in the eu will almost double by 2030, with 19 major eu airports overcrowded and up to 50% of all passenger and cargo flights delayed. action is needed today to increase the capacity of eu airports, reduce delays and improve the quality of services provided to passengers. the proposal aims to ensure optimal time allocation at congested eu airports (airport time allocation access to runways and terminals on a specific day, at a specific time, for flights to or from a congested airport). it will also be possible to trade in secondary time slots allowing airlines to buy and sell them throughout the eu. the proposed measure would increase the capacity of eu airports to handle an additional 24 million passengers by 2025. this would generate €5 billion in additional revenue for the eu economy over the period to 2025 and create almost 62 000 jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because one of the major problems facing europe today is overcrowding at airports, and this proposal for a regulation on the allocation of slots at eu airports proposes a way of tackling this problem. according to the long-term forecasts published by eurocontrol in december 2012, even taking into account the infrastructure improvements currently planned, almost 10% of air transport needs will not be met in 2030 due to insufficient capacity. i would therefore support the view that the time-series regulation should be reviewed and that it should be improved as much as possible to ensure that capacity meets the needs of air transport in all sectors (long-haul, regional, cargo, etc.). for example, some of these airports - london heathrow and paris orly - are heavily overcapacitated throughout the year; others have limited capacity during certain peak periods. these examples only demonstrate the need to strengthen the mechanisms for the allocation and use of slots at airports and to ensure their effective application.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the time-limits are allocated to air carriers in accordance with the administrative procedure laid down in council regulation (eec) no 95/93 of 18 january 1993 in accordance with the legislation in force. however, this system of allocating slots has proved to be inefficient and does not ensure that the airport's capacity is fully utilised. it was therefore decided to review the time-frames regulation and to identify the best possible way to improve it in order to meet the capacity needs of air transport in all sectors. i have supported this proposal because i believe it is a good starting point for improving the efficiency of airports, as many of the amendments proposed aim to strengthen the content of certain provisions in order to make them more effective and clearer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on noise-related restrictions at airports in the european union. the commission has published a comprehensive package of measures to improve the capacity of european union airports, reduce delays and improve the quality of passenger services. the proposal aims to improve the situation of eu airports by introducing a harmonised approach to noise management and to increase the transparency of decisions on airport noise. this method includes noise reduction measures such as reducing aircraft noise at source, better land-use planning measures, the use of dedicated take-off and departure lanes, etc. it is essential to protect people living near airports when deciding on noise reduction, while taking into account the need to travel. i therefore support the proposal to take equal account of the economic benefits and the impact on the quality of life of the population living in the vicinity of the airport when assessing noise at airports. it is also important to phase out the noisiest aircraft.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the legislative proposal aims to update the existing noise prevention measures in eu airports. this proposal includes a number of noise abatement measures, such as noise abatement procedures related to flight management (using dedicated take-off and departure lanes, routes and procedures), aircraft noise abatement at source and other related measures. in the international civil aviation organisation, the eu is actively supporting the development of new noise abatement standards and investing in new technologies through its joint programmes and the clean sky project. noise standards are also addressed in another european union legislation known as the environmental noise directive (directive 2002/49/ec on the assessment and management of environmental noise), which requires member states to identify the main sources of environmental noise, assess the impact of noise and take appropriate action. while a certain degree of flexibility is necessary to ensure that legislation is in line with technological progress, it should nevertheless be carefully assessed whether in all areas a delegation of powers to the commission, as proposed in this proposal, is necessary.
in writing. - i voted for this document. although the european union is a world leader in environmental legislation and in the fight against climate change, it still faces a noise problem, with an increasing number of people exposed to noise at airports, especially at night, and with negative health effects recognised in many scientific reports. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality,
in writing. −aircraft and airport noise pose a significant public health threat in many eu cities. as more flights take off, the problem will become more acute. i therefore support this document, which sets out measures to reduce aircraft noise. i also support the amendments proposed by the european parliament, which put public health over economic interests.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to establish a european union statistical programme for 2013-2017 to produce and disseminate eu statistics using new statistical production methods. the proposal aims to ensure the integrity and quality of eu statistical data. the objective of eu statistics is to help monitor and evaluate union policies on the basis of reliable and comparable factual information. i agree with the proposals made to ensure the legal independence of the national statistical services of the member states and to develop national public sector accounting systems in a standardised manner, through internal and external audits. it is also important that member states fully comply with the provisions of the european statistical code of practice. it is necessary to ensure that eurostat data are publicly available and easy to use. i support the commission's proposal to provide support for national agencies which, due to methodological obstacles or financial difficulties, face problems in providing statistical data of an adequate quality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because properly regulated and reliable statistics build confidence among citizens and markets and are an essential element in the formulation of economic policy. the existence of independent national statistical services, free from government interference, is essential to ensure the transparency of statistical data. the role of the commission (eurostat) in coordinating the ess will therefore continue to be very important. it is also important to note that it is necessary to ensure the availability and ease of use of statistical data. the recent economic crisis has shown that inaccurate, fraudulent and non-public statistics have led to a complete breakdown of confidence in international financial markets and institutions, which has further exacerbated the negative effects of the crisis. after the crisis and with the implementation of the new eu economic governance framework, we should seize the opportunity to build the most reliable and accountable systems possible, through more efficient funding mechanisms, a greater role for eurostat and strengthened economic governance structures.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the main purpose of european statistics is to help develop, monitor and evaluate european policies on the basis of reliable, objective, comparable and harmonised factual information. it aims to make the european statistical system the main source of high-quality european statistics. i have endorsed this document because it aims to provide high-quality statistical information for the development, monitoring and evaluation of eu policies in different areas, in the proper context of priorities. the new methods for producing european statistics also aim to increase efficiency and improve quality. it also seeks to increase the efficiency of the european statistical system and to strengthen its role as a leader in the field of official statistics worldwide by strengthening internal and external cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax. in 2011, the commission presented a proposal for a common financial transaction tax (ftt) system, and 11 member states expressed their willingness to participate in the introduction of a common ftt. the tax would generate approximately eur 57 billion in revenue each year. taxation of the financial sector would contribute to the budgets of the member states, strengthen the single market by reducing distortions of competition resulting from the diversity of national approaches, promote more responsible trade and the stability of the financial sector. i support the proposal to allow member states wishing to apply the eu fsm to do so. i believe it is necessary to ensure that financial institutions contribute appropriately to removing the effects of the financial and economic crisis and to establish a level playing field for taxation in the sector vis-à-vis other sectors. it is also important to ensure that transactions that do not increase the efficiency of financial markets are not carried out and to improve regulatory measures in order to avoid future crises.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the enhanced cooperation on the common system of a financial transaction tax (hereinafter referred to as 'ftt') between member states contributes to the better achievement of the common objectives of the european union. on 28 september 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a council directive on a common system of fms amending directive 2008/7/ec. the proposal was put forward after more than nine member states had indicated in their request to the commission, pursuant to article 329 (1) tfeu, their intention to establish closer cooperation between themselves in the development of a common tax system. the commission subsequently submitted a proposal for a council decision authorising enhanced cooperation. it is important to note that the commission, when further assessing the impact of the fsm on the whole internal market through enhanced cooperation, including the impact on participating and non-participating member states, should complement the initial impact assessment of the introduction of the fsm and should take into account the results of the verification when preparing a revised draft proposal. in the further development of this initiative, it is important that the commission closely monitors the implementation of the fsm in accordance with articles 326 and 327 tfeu and regularly informs the parliament and the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it is a proposal for a council directive on a common system of financial transaction tax (ftt) amending directive 2008/7/ec. i have endorsed this document as several member states have indicated their willingness to consider the possibility of establishing a common system of financial transaction tax (ftt) in the context of enhanced cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the protection of animals during transport. the proposal aims to remove barriers to trade in live animals, while ensuring an adequate level of protection for such animals. the commission has submitted a report on the impact of regulation no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport on animal welfare and trade flows. the report shows a sharp increase in such animals between 2005 and 2009: cattle by 8%, pigs by 70%, sheep by 3%, and only horses by 17%. as the objective of the regulation to reduce the number of animals transported has not been achieved, i support the proposal to review eu policy in this area. i support the proposals to support local slaughterhouses and meat processing plants where animals are slaughtered for short distances and to set a maximum journey time of 8 hours for animals to be slaughtered in the eu. the fact that the correctness of the data reported by the member states cannot be verified due to the different control methods in this area threatens to undermine the establishment of the true situation. it is therefore necessary to ensure uniform controls on the observance of the conditions of carriage in the eu and to consider the establishment of specific control bodies in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to ensure animal welfare and a uniform, effective framework of eu legislation governing the movement of animals in all member states. at present, the implementation of the provisions on the transport of animals varies widely between member states. parliament criticised the commission's report for not fully assessing the cost of transporting all animals, limiting itself to analysing the impact on intra-eu trade, regional, social and economic consequences. the methods and means of transport of animals should be clearly defined both within and outside the eu. the introduction of strict inspections and monitoring of animals from third countries is necessary to ensure competitiveness for european union livestock farmers and to encourage the improvement of standards for the transport of animals in third countries. i believe that the commission must take measures to strengthen cooperation and control between the competent authorities of the different member states in this area.
in writing. - i voted for this document. because eu legislation requires that the welfare of animals be ensured during transport. i think it's important to consider the economic costs, and at the same time try not to harm the animals or cause them stress. i supported the need for member states to ensure the implementation of the existing minimum standards for transport checks, as well as the application of effective and proportionate penalties and dissuasive measures. particular attention shall be paid to checking the journey times and rest periods, feeding and watering intervals, the space allocated to the animal in the vehicle, the ventilation of the vehicles and the effective operation of the animal irrigation systems. it is also important to encourage cooperation and exchange of information between border control authorities of each member state on cross-border movements of animals.
in writing. − i agree that the issue of safe and animal-friendly transport must be addressed both within and outside the eu. animals transported from third countries should be monitored with particular care, as transport over very long distances, in unhygienic or unfavourable conditions, may result in the risk of communicable diseases and other related consequences. i therefore welcome the resolution's provision for slaughtering animals as close as possible to their place of production, thereby reducing the potential for animal welfare violations and promoting sustainable regional growth and development and the development of small businesses in rural areas.
in writing. − statistics show that the number of animals transported for commercial purposes has been increasing over the last decade. for some animal species, this increase is particularly high, for example, the number of pigs transported increased by as much as 70% between 2005 and 2009. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the transport of animals should be more regulated. the economic operators should not only be concerned with maximising profits. they must ensure that the animals are provided with acceptable conditions during transport; during long journeys, the animals should be able to eat and drink. i agree with the view expressed in the report that 8 hours should be the maximum duration of a journey without a break. this was the position of over a million eu citizens. undertakings should endeavour to ensure that meat and animal products are transported over long distances instead of live animals. promoting local sales, reducing food supply chains would give work to smaller local slaughterhouses, boosting the local economy. this would not only be more cost-effective but would also protect animal rights.
in writing. − millions of animals are transported on europe's motorways every year, and often in totally unacceptable conditions. the transport of animals to the slaughterhouse has recently increased as the transport distances increase, so it is very important to set maximum transport times. it is essential that the stressed animal does not travel more than 8 hours to the slaughterhouse and that the travel conditions meet or exceed international animal welfare guidelines. more than one third of these journeys take longer than this, causing stress for the animals. we all know that stress is toxic to meat. for example, a trawler with 31 pigs recently left latvia for iran and was stranded for four days on the bulgarian-turkish border because it was not allowed to cross. it is difficult to predict how many live calves will reach iran and what quality meat will be produced. and there are many, many cases of this. more than a million people have signed a petition to reduce the transport time of animals to 8 hours. we cannot ignore this fact. i agree that special attention should be paid during transport to the duration of the journey and to the periods of rest, feeding and watering intervals, space for the animal in the vehicle, ventilation of the vehicles, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because respect for human rights is one of the most important values of the european union. i would urge the commission to better inform citizens not only about their rights but also about their implementation in practice, by maintaining a constant dialogue with the relevant non-governmental organisations. i believe that it is necessary to support the eradication of all stereotypes and the fight against discrimination through specific programmes, actions and campaigns involving the member states, the social partners, non-governmental organisations, institutions and members of national parliaments. it is equally important to consider the situation of stateless people. in view of the declaration of 2013 as the european year of citizens, i would urge the commission and the member states to ensure that effective information campaigns are organised on eu citizenship and related rights. i would also urge all member states to establish appropriate legal frameworks and to define the concept of trafficking in human beings in a uniform way, to protect and defend children's rights and to combat discrimination.
the notifier. − the preparation of this document and the related discussions in the various political groups of the european parliament demonstrate the importance to the european parliament and the european union of a human rights policy and commitment to the defence of human rights as an opportunity to consolidate peace in the world through dialogue and dialogue, rather than force and fist. as the author and rapporteur of this document, i am deeply grateful to my alde colleagues, shadow rapporteurs and colleagues from other groups for the valuable comments, insights, advice, recommendations, criticism and collegiality that have accompanied all my work. this collegial spirit and our concerted efforts and dialogue is one of the most essential and positive experiences i have had in my work on the report. we wanted to produce a coherent, coherent, coherent, logical report that not only reflected the past and identified and registered problems, but also provided guidelines and orientations, thus becoming a strategically important document for the european union. that is why the main emphases of this document include: the european union's responsibility for human rights defenders and dissidents in third countries and around the world (because they, not institutions that are hostile to democracy and human rights, are our essential partners); the human rights clauses in the eu's international trade agreements with third countries (because we are concerned about the poorly prepared, unbalanced, unambitious and inadequate human rights monitoring mechanisms in these agreements, especially with regard to the central asian countries); special attention to the drama of the situation in tibet, which is only concerned with preserving its faith, culture and historical identity, and the consequent need to establish a special representative of the european union for tibet - this is particularly evident in the context of systematic human rights violations in china and russia. this year, the focus is on freedom of expression and new media - experiences that can no longer be ignored after the arab spring we witnessed. at the same time, we cannot avoid and remain silent about what we would lose the right to call the human rights institution lgbt, the caste system of discrimination, the problems of women and children's rights in the world. and there is no way to ignore the fact that people are being killed for their sexual orientation in the 21st century, that so-called honour killings are still punishable, that female genital mutilation is still legal, and that it is still possible to stone unfaithful women. i would like to thank my colleagues once again from the bottom of my heart for their extraordinary support, understanding and collegiality, while believing that we have done the work together that this document has enshrined. i am therefore confident that we will complete this work in the same spirit and with the same degree of collegiality in the votes tomorrow.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mr donsky, who is the lead author of the annual report under discussion. the most important human rights issues are reflected in the report we will be voting on tomorrow, and which i will certainly support. i would like to mention two issues today: the human rights situation in occupied tibet and freedom of religion and belief. 2011 and 2012 will go down in history as the year of burning tibet. in protesting against the intolerable repression and violations of human rights and freedoms, tibetans are taking extreme forms of protest, becoming living torches, and almost a hundred tibetan men and mothers of young children, monks, young people have already given their lives. and we, the great and powerful european union, are watching. we are watching, not trying to achieve at least the minimum that the conflicting parties seek solutions through dialogue, at the negotiating table. freedom of religion. interestingly, in the postmodern world, religious freedom is gaining importance all over the arab world, europe, russia, china and elsewhere. i am grateful to mr donsky for accepting most of my amendments on this subject. we know that the european union's guidelines on freedom of religion or belief are currently being discussed, and i think that the european parliament should also have a say on this important subject.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank all of you for this very important debate. this house has for years been a champion of human rights and your active involvement in our broad activities on human rights continues to guide us throughout the process. the important reports of the two rapporteurs will undoubtedly further nourish our reflexion on how to better ensure consistency in eu policy by working closely with the european external action service, the commission and this house. let me now turn to some specific points that have been raised by the honourable members. definitely i cannot answer every question or every very important remark that has been made, but i will try to answer or to comment on some of those issues that have been raised. let me first of all express on behalf of the high representative/vice-president how much she regrets that she cannot be here with you today. as you all know, she has committed herself to making human rights an integral part of our eu external relations and she would have been delighted to discuss with you the great achievements we have seen this year, which i have briefly elaborated on in my introduction. this week cathy chaired the foreign affairs council, where tangible improvements on human rights issues in the serbia-kosovo dialogue have been achieved. she participated in the general affairs council, where discussions went on late into the night last night to come to an agreement to advance the stabilisation and association process for the western balkans, and of course this week the friends of syria meeting as well as the situation in egypt are particularly high on her agenda. we must do our utmost to end the terrible bloodshed in syria and to ensure that the recent advances in egypt’s democratic transition do not unravel in the light of recent events. regarding women, peace and security, which has been mentioned, i would like to say that the european union is active on the issue of women, peace and security in more than 70 countries. its support amounts to about eur 200 million a year for the development and the implementation of national action plans, funding for non-governmental organisations and training for governmental agencies. the european union has included specific attention to women, peace and security in its political and human rights dialogues and consultations with countries such as canada, ethiopia, the us, nepal, pakistan, papua new guinea, south africa, somalia, sudan and uganda, to name but a few. we also want to ensure that the political commitment to gender equality is translated into concrete cooperation activities and feeds into the programming of eu assistance. the second implementation report on the eu plan of action on gender equality and women’s empowerment in development has been prepared. the report includes concrete examples of mainstreaming of gender in our geographical instruments. on gender-based violence, including female genital mutilation: this is one of the most prevalent and pervasive forms of human rights violations and it is deeply rooted in gender inequality between men and women. the european external action service and the commission are therefore committed to strengthening its actions both internally and externally. the high representative/vice-president ashton and vice-president reding made a statement on the international day against female genital mutilation on 6 february 2012 and a declaration on ending fgm at the european parliament on 13 june 2012. the european parliament unanimously adopted the joint resolution on ending female genital mutilation in june 2012. the european external action service is currently preparing a campaign to be launched in spring 2013 under the eu human rights guidelines on violence against women and girls to draw attention to the need to step up efforts to eradicate this practice, particularly on the african continent. on the death penalty: consistent with its strong and principled policy against the death penalty, the european union is undoubtedly one of the most prominent international players and lead donors in the abolitionist cause worldwide. the fight against the death penalty is at the heart of the eu’s human rights policy and a personal priority for the high representative/vice-president. the eu uses all tools available in order to promote its abolitionist policy according to the 11 eu guidelines. mention was made of kazakhstan. the lack of substantial progress in advancing human rights in kazakhstan is certainly a matter of concern which we have conveyed to president nazarbayev. when the high representative/vice-president met with the president during a visit to astana in november, they had an intensive exchange of views. on that occasion she expressed to him her firm belief that, as a member of the council of europe’s venice commission and also a newly elected member of the un human rights council, kazakhstan should demonstrate its strong commitment to human rights, including the freedoms of speech, of assembly and association and of religion and belief. the respect for common values of democracy, the rule of law and human rights is also the basis for deepening our relations through the new pca. on freedom of religion and belief: as a universal human right, freedom of religion and belief is a priority under the eu human rights policy. the european union has to promote it for everyone outside and within the european union. the european union and member states have been very active on freedom of religion and belief over the last two years. the eu is active in putting together action lines, specific council conclusions 2009-2011, an internal action plan in 2010, a request made to all eu delegations in 2011 to follow the situation and report on issues and actions taken, focus on freedom of religion and belief in the eu annual human rights reports of 2010-2011, and proposals for new guidelines on the freedom of religion and belief agreed in the foreign affairs council in june to be adopted by the beginning of 2013. the european parliament of course will be informed and comments will be very welcome. on the question raised by graf lambsdorff, i agree that there will be a need for coordination between the existing instrument and the new european endowment for democracy. as you know, a great part of the existing european instrument for democracy and human rights is dedicated to election observations where parliament has a great role to play. our intention is that the european endowment for democracy will be complementary to that. to conclude, let me once again pay tribute to this year’s sakharov prize winners – nasrin sotoudeh and jafar panahi – for the courage they showed in the struggle against repression and once again assure this house of the central place of human rights and democracy in the external action of the eu, as demonstrated by our strong commitment and continuous work in this field throughout 2012. a lot of work lies ahead. i am not here to say that we are perfect but that we want to achieve that goal. i can assure you that the high representative, the eu special representative mr lambrinidis and all the member states will redouble our efforts until human rights are not only volumes of conventions and resolutions, but are translated into reality for every human being on this planet irrespective of colour, ethnic origin, religion, gender or sexual orientation. if we want to have a better world, human rights should remain at the heart of our domestic and our foreign policy.
the notifier. - the russian writer and dissident alexander solzhenitsyn has said the crucial phrase that in modern times, states have no longer really their internal affairs, because all these affairs have already become international and common human affairs. this means that no citizen or resident is the property or internal affair of his or her state. the national state cannot claim to be the arbiter of universal human affairs and problems, of which human life and its value, the incomparable value and dignity of the person, fundamental rights and civil liberties are essential. like the chinese democracy wall activists in beijing in 1978, russian dissidents, who in their desperate struggle inspired the west and created the entire human rights discourse of today, are the best counterargument to the belief that human rights have become a new secular and political religion of the west, having nothing to do with the rest of humanity. the european union cannot fail to speak with one voice when it comes to human rights as the essential criterion for assessing the civility of the policies of states, their democratic credentials and their credibility in the face of modern forms of sensitivity. i therefore hope that this report will become one of the european union's policy instruments for achieving these objectives and for harmonising our discourse and making our actions more effective.
mr president, there are many cases in which russia deserves critical remarks as a systematic violator of human rights and international commitments. unfortunately, we deserve criticism as well for avoiding even talking with our partner about some particularities of our common, better future. such a long-prepared resolution on the agreement could be seen as an effort towards dialogue on relations, including what is at least an abnormal lack of a mutually-recognised legal border between the eu and russia. that gap remains at the estonian eastern border when russia refuses to ratify an agreement properly worked through and signed by both negotiators several years before. the resolution was an opportunity to remind our russian colleagues of that particular unfinished issue, but that opportunity was not taken. the level of our appeasing instincts is tremendously unrealistic. it is much worse when something similar occurs about human lives and losses. there was another chance to encourage russia to join the international community in its efforts to stop the destruction and bloodshed of civilians in syria. we missed it. the suggestion was deleted. as now there are signs already that russia may drop its unconditional support for mr assad, we see that we could step forward and show ourselves being less afraid to say in a resolution a european word to russia. but we have not helped russia as an illusionary world peace maker in the case of syria either.
mr president, over the years i have followed not only the tragic events on the spot but also the debates of politicians – debates conducted at a distance, and often in rather abstract terms – and the formulas and wording used concern me. i wish to ask, since there is so much talk about palestinians and palestine: what palestine, and what palestinians, are we talking about? geographically there are at least two palestines now, with two ruling representative forces or personalities. if they are legitimately authorised to represent sections of the palestinian people, who represents palestinian refugees? maybe it is time to sit round the table and get an evaluation rather than play with words along the lines of ‘palestine is recognised, palestine is this or that’. which palestine? hamas’ palestine? abbas’ palestine? does hamas’ palestine recognise abbas as a legitimate president? let us consider the issue in a realistic light.
the parliamentary elections in ukraine have unfortunately not turned into a boost for the european option, democracy and human rights in that country. they were not transparent, some opposition leaders met them in prison, much of it due to so-called 'government resources'. however, it should be stressed that the main political forces there are in favour of strengthening cooperation with the european union. the majority of ukrainian citizens support the european direction. it is important to send them a strong signal that the european union really values this. public voice and pressure should lead the parliament and the government to focus more on human rights and to implement reforms that would enable, as commissioner štefan fule has said, the signing of an eu-ukraine association agreement at the vilnius summit, and perhaps even earlier.
mr president, as usual, we like to strongly criticise ukraine about its elections and the stage of democracy there. it is worth comparing our valuation of the same matters in two of the largest post-soviet states: russia and ukraine. in the case of ukraine, real elections were held but nevertheless failed to meet all international standards. in russia, however, in the case of both parliamentary and presidential elections, the very elections were pre-empted by the selection of candidates, as in the good old days; those with the potential to debate with the power-holders were put aside, simply not registered. the two ukrainian opposition leaders sentenced for misuse of powers and kept in jail there should not be compared with the two extremely dangerous singing girls imprisoned in russia. in ukraine the new political forces were allowed to participate and pass the electoral threshold, thus building a real parliamentary opposition. that is not the case in russia, where the highest power is guaranteed personally for a lifelong term, as in central asia, and only selected, largely ornamental groups are permitted to enter the lower house as ‘his majesty’s loyal opposition’. in ukraine, the existing democratic institutions must be further improved; as there are no democratic institutions involved in the governance of russia, only imitations of them, no such improvements can be made until fundamental changes come. to sum up, ukraine is better, and must be encouraged not to lose its european links and aspirations. the power of encouragement remains in our hands; let us not delete any positive advances, as happened in the case of the recent resolution.
for the efd group indeed, austerity measures have pushed the economy into a dangerous downturn. to save money, you have to earn it first. and the institutions of the european union have hardly done enough to make it easier and simpler for society to do so. mr president, we are desperately late and are hastily borrowing new funds with the hope of increasing gdp by a few tenths of a percent, and when it falls, we are borrowing again in order to at least bring gdp back to its previous level and try to convince everyone that there is no crisis or problem. we must admit that such austerity policies have not improved but worsened the economic and social situation. what do you do? i think we need to go three ways. first, the promotion of production and consumption appropriate to it. secondly, saving not at the expense of public revenues, but at the expense of the bureaucratic machinery of the states and the expenditure of the state banking sector. thirdly, the efficient use of european union funds, including those for the most necessary social reforms.
i voted for this document and i would like to say why. i think it is important that the council decision on the fundamental rights agency includes a reference to the stockholm programme and that the institutions of the european union are invited to make full use of the agency's expertise when taking decisions on fundamental rights. i hope that the european commission will also use it in its assessment of the need for a legal instrument to assess the crimes of totalitarian regimes in europe and their denial. the importance of the historical memory of the totalitarian regimes of the 20th century has been recognised on many occasions by all the institutions of the european union - parliament, commission, council. paradoxically, therefore, there is still a serious lack of eu-wide studies to show what europeans know about totalitarian crimes. i therefore hope that the agency will, in the new phase of its activities, also pay greater attention to the issues of balanced research in the field of totalitarian regimes. it should establish a cooperation with the prague platform, an organisation of european countries' research institutions supported by the european commission, with outstanding expertise on the soviet legacy in europe.
i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr swoboda. new russian laws restricting the activities of non-governmental organisations, repression of the opposition, elections that cannot be described as free and fair, all this makes the strategic partnership we desire a difficult goal to achieve. the russians have a very good expression to describe the behaviour of the european union: желаемое принимать за действительное, which translates as desirability to be taken as a reality. such thinking and action is fundamentally wrong and not in the interests of the european union. russia wants a single visa-free regime from the european union. however, visa-free travel is only possible with a country that has the rule of law, which is a state governed by law, where impunity has been overcome. it's the russian housework she has to do. until that happens in russia, there can be no visa-free regime with the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, despite the promotion and justification of human rights, discrimination on grounds of race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinion still exists in the eu. on 28 february 2008, the council therefore adopted decision 2008/203/ec implementing the provisions of regulation (ec) no 168/2007 as regards the adoption of the multiannual programme of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the period 2007 to 2012. the eu's activities in this agency aim to provide compensation for victims, asylum for immigrants, protection for children and access to justice for all union citizens or to inform them of access to justice. it is important to note that many organisations support the work of the agency in the relevant areas and would like it to continue its work, in particular in the areas of discrimination (72%), asylum and migration (43%), racism and xenophobia (38%) and the right to a fair trial (31%). in view of the indivisible and interrelated nature of human rights as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu and in un human rights instruments, the scope of the agency should clearly cover a wide range of economic, social and cultural rights in the member states.
in writing. − the report mentions the procedural changes for the written declarations that, from my point of view, are really necessary now. at the heart of the increase of the european parliament’s legislative role, these procedural changes can be very efficient. first of all, procedural rules of written declarations need to be changed because nowadays written declarations only have a limited impact on the decision-making process of the eu. their importance is more punctual; they raise awareness on issues of public concern but do not influence the union’s legislation. and taking into account the parliament’s increased policy prerogatives, the relevance of some written declarations to these prerogatives sometimes is very small. furthermore, under the current procedure only a small percentage of written declarations obtain the required support of a majority of members of the european parliament. that is why, taking into consideration all mentioned points, i welcome these structural changes to the follow-up rules and the signature process of the written declarations. and i consider all these procedural changes important as they will not only reduce the costs for the eu but will also bring more coherence into the legislative procedure of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this, one of the most important resolutions of the european parliament. i am pleased that the rapporteur has succeeded in covering all the main areas of human rights violation and protection. i also welcome the strict provisions of the resolution on the lack of progress in the investigation into the circumstances of sergei magnitsky's death. the council must respond appropriately to the negligence of the russian authorities and take appropriate measures to implement an eu-wide visa ban on the officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky and to freeze any financial assets that they or their family members may have in the european union. it is also important that the european parliament continues to recall the cases of mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev, which are internationally regarded as cases of a political nature. i am convinced that only the constant pressure from various international institutions and organisations will force the russian authorities to review these cases and to deal with them objectively and impartially. i am pleased that this resolution includes for the first time a separate section on international humanitarian law (ihl). with this step, the european parliament expresses its support for and contributes to the strengthening of the icc and in particular the international criminal court, with a view to achieving results in the fight against impunity for crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because in many countries around the world there is an increasing violation of freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief by authorities and non-state actors, which has resulted in discrimination and intolerance against certain individuals and religious communities, including minorities and non-believers. for these reasons, the annual report should not only reflect and review past successes and failures, but also aim to inspire the development of a further eu strategy and action plan on human rights and democracy. i believe that the annual report should be an important tool to inform about the eu's work in this area to date and should help to raise the visibility of eu action in the future. i would urge the council, the commission, the european external action service (eeas) and the parliament to foster and value the role of the eu as the main defender of human rights and to work closely together in implementing this strategic agenda, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by development aid and the european endowment for democracy.
in writing. − this comprehensive report documenting the situation of human rights around the globe demonstrates that, although significant progress has been made, much work remains to be done. the eu has noted and protested against the imprisonment, torture, and execution of countless dissidents, journalists, whistle-blowers, activists, and criminals across the globe, in countries ranging from syria to ukraine to the united states. the eu has been a major player in working with the un and international criminal court (icc) to ensure fair and open trials for accused persons. democracy clauses in eu agreements with third countries have helped to diffuse democratic norms – by requiring respect for human rights as a prerequisite for trade agreements with the eu; these clauses have provided a motivator for third countries to improve their human rights records. the eu has also been a major voice speaking out against the use of the death penalty, discrimination on any basis, and racism and xenophobia. it has also consistently supported women’s rights, voting rights, and the right to the freedoms of assembly, religion, press, and speech. i support this report because the eu serves as the world’s major promoter of human rights, and should continue to do so in the future.
in writing. − this very important report states that the eu must act according to the treaty obligations and be guided by the principles of democracy and the rule of law. in this time of economic difficulties and austerity, the human rights policy in the eu might deteriorate. that is why the eu as a community which is based on common values and principles has to show consistency regarding its policies and to take the lead in ensuring and protecting the respect of human rights within its member states. that is essential for the eu. only once this has been achieved the eu can be a credible actor in external relations and can effectively support the aspirations of those neighbourhood countries which struggle for democracy and human rights. i welcome this significant report and i wholeheartedly agree on the core messages of the report that underline the importance of human rights and democracy in the world. and i strongly believe that lithuania as a member state that shares the commitments to european values must play its part here too, because a strong democracy is a core element for economic prosperity and social growth inside the eu and beyond it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which assesses the european parliament's approach to the eu's human rights strategy, in particular in the context of the eu strategic programme on human rights and democracy and the action plan adopted by the foreign affairs council on 25 june 2012. the establishment of the post of eu special representative for human rights is a very important step in the implementation of the eu's human rights strategy. it should be stressed that we, as members of the european parliament, expect the new eu special representative for human rights to work closely with parliament and its relevant committees in the exercise of the mandate conferred on him in the field of human rights. the eusr for human rights must be the face of the eu in third countries, known as the main defender of eu values, and the unambiguous voice of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. we also want to see concrete results from the work of the eu special representative on the protection of the rights of women and children, especially in times of military conflict, towards the total abolition of the death penalty in the world, towards a more effective human rights dialogue with countries such as russia and china.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because one of the eu's main objectives is to protect and promote human rights. the recent unrest in the eastern partnership has shown the particular importance of ensuring political dialogue between public authorities, trade unions, universities and civil society in order to protect fundamental freedoms (during the transition processes). the european democracy fund (edf) is therefore one of the most realistic ways of responding adequately to the potential challenges of democratisation in the member states and beyond. it is of the utmost importance to mention that the eu supports the universal human rights and freedoms enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, which states that equal opportunities must be guaranteed to everyone, regardless of religion or belief, gender, racial or ethnic origin, age, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity. the strategic programme and action plan is the minimum, not the maximum, of the eu's human rights policy. the eu institutions and member states will need to take a firm and consistent approach to human rights violations worldwide and act in a transparent and accountable manner to ensure that no human rights are violated in the implementation of eu policies. these mandates and tasks are not easily and quickly achieved, but must be continuously improved and regularly evaluated.
in writing. − the eu was founded on the principle of respect for human rights and has a legal obligation to place human rights at the centre of all eu policies, member state agreements and international agreements. eu institutions and member states must develop a common response to human rights abuses, both at home and abroad. policy regarding human rights must be consistent across all eu member states – coordination with the eu institutions is vital in this regard. after all, the eu cannot act as a credible defender of human rights abroad if serious human rights deficiencies occur within its own borders. the recently established post of special representative of the european union for human rights should aid greatly in streamlining human rights standards throughout the eu and should reinforce the eu human rights agenda in eu external policy. policy coordination and coherence with other international organisations, such as the un and council of europe, can also go a long way towards establishing a more globalised approach to human rights. i support this report because i believe that if the eu is and should remain the global leader in protecting human rights.
in writing. − it is regrettable that the trends in russia, especially in the field of human rights, are not positive, but it is most regrettable that human rights violations are not recognised and that instead, arguments about 'foreign powers' are often used to justify restrictions in domestic politics or attempts to divide the unity of the eu by accusing several eu member states of some kind of violation. therefore, the eu-russia human rights dialogues at this stage appear to be little more than meetings to exchange differing views. russia shares moral and political responsibility for the deaths of 20 000 syrian civilians, the deepening civil conflict and the humanitarian crisis, as a result of its unconstructive stance in the un security council. there is concern for the survival of a regime that is killing its own people in the name of national interests. this is why statements are made that ignore the fate of current victims but care about future victims of the collapse of the assad regime. all this is the result of a lack of understanding of the benefits of democratic processes, of listening to the expectations of citizens. it is important to continue to make human rights conditionalities in the negotiations for the new agreement. i also welcome the expectations of the ep in the field of energy, in particular the call for russia to join the espo convention and the need to ensure that new and existing nuclear infrastructure fully complies with international safety standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that both the european union and russia need a new and good treaty. the criticism of some of russia's actions in the report is not 'schadenfreude', on the contrary. it is a desire to remove obstacles to our cooperation, while recognising that, even in difficult times, the eu is not perfect. russia, for geopolitical, historical and other reasons, will never be like, say, portugal, germany, or poland. russia, by virtue of its sheer size, spanning two continents, has a choice in which path to take. the most mutually beneficial path, i would say, would be to move closer to the european union. such a line would be supported by a large proportion of russian citizens, according to polls. i see this report as a support to them, as an invitation to an even more open, more substantive dialogue and to a strengthening of the strategic partnership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution even though my original proposal was to postpone the adoption of such a resolution until after the newly elected ukrainian parliament starts its work. in this case the european parliament would be able to express its concerns and expectations to the new parliament of ukraine. today i would like to stress that it is of utmost importance that the ukrainian government seriously addresses the inconclusive results in some electoral districts and the shortcomings of the electoral law. i regret that the 2012 parliamentary elections, which were to be ‘a key test’ for ukraine’s development into a fully-fledged democracy, failed to meet international standards and were ‘a step backward’ compared to previous elections. but even in those conditions the eu must remain supportive of the ukrainian people as a protection against attempts to isolate ukraine, which could lead to ‘favourable conditions for undemocratic regimes’. moreover, we observe worrying tendencies regarding rising nationalistic sentiment in ukraine which led to the election of the ‘svoboda’ party to the parliament of ukraine. we must recall that racist, anti-semitic and xenophobic views go against the eu’s fundamental values and principles and might undermine eu readiness to cooperate with ukraine.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution identifies problem areas where ukraine should make progress in the near future. i believe that the eu should continue to work actively with its partners in ukraine to help make that progress. i hope that at the eastern partnership leaders' meeting in vilnius in 2013, we will witness the beginning of a qualitatively new phase of eu-ukraine cooperation and rapprochement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important for the european union to maintain and develop a strong steel industry. the steel industry in europe plays a key role in the economy and is a key part of the development and creation of many industrial sectors that are essential for economic and social well-being. the commission considers that appropriate measures should be taken to enable all member states to effectively request and receive funding for research in the coal and steel sectors. in short, it is essential to financially support and develop research and to increase the efficiency and sustainability of production in this sector. the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to increase the share of this industry in the european union's gross domestic product from 16% to 20% by 2020, is the only hope for overcoming the economic and social crisis. the preservation and strengthening of a robust steel sector is the economic foundation of the european union, which will provide opportunities for the future development of other infrastructure areas.
