mr president, ms thorning-schmidt spoke of ‘results, not intentions’: that reflects my own political aim, so thank you, prime minister, for that. as the rapporteur for the energy efficiency directive, i will try to move this parliament into a position where we can reach a deal with you. today, however, i want to address one issue which i think is crucial in relation to getting investment in the short term, and it concerns the european investment bank. in december 2008, 27 heads of state decided that in 2009 the lending capacity of the eib should be raised from eur 55 billion to eur 80 billion. that meant in 2009 that there was eur 25 billion more concrete investment in wind and other projects as well as corporate bonds, which saved part of the european car industry. today we are in the same credit crunch, yet for next year the eib has reduced its lending capacity to eur 60 billion. why, at this very moment, are we cutting back eur 20 billion in the lending capacity of the european investment bank? secondly, why is the eib not using what mr draghi has provided as a lifeline for the private banks? private banks now have eur 500 billion at 1%, and they are parking it overnight in the european central bank and not investing it in the real economy. so, why is the eib not able to lend eur 80 billion at 1% in 2012 and invest in the european economy? is that not the single quickest investment stimulus we can get during your presidency?
in writing. i voted with the large majority of meps in favour of the resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 8 and 9 december 2011. the european council proposes an intergovernmental agreement on stability, coordination and governance of economic and monetary union. it is the abandonment of the community method, the elimination of the european parliament and the decision-making process in the union. this agreement, which is outside the tried and tested structures of europe, will not solve anything and will not impress the markets. i nevertheless voted in favour of the resolution in order not to confuse my voice with that of the notorious anti-europeans.
mr president, in december, mrs reding, the european commissioner, sent a letter to the hungarian minister of justice asking him to explain a number of things. the hungarian minister replied to this letter only a few hours later, in a letter of nineteen pages. i feel, reading all this again, that there are two ways of looking at things. it is clear, however, that the commission's view, as guardian of the treaties, prevails in such a debate, and i note that the hungarian prime minister, mr orbán, and other representatives of hungary have declared themselves ready and willing, in the last few days and weeks, to comply with the commission's verdict and to intervene in an infringement procedure. that is what is objectively at stake, and not much else. otherwise, we pretend that something extremely sinister and terrible is going on in hungary. why would you do that? for any appointment that might be political at the central bank. does this amount to a massive violation of the human rights of the entire hungarian population? is the appointment of the data protection officer, which may be too political, a violation of the human rights of millions of hungarians? i don't feel like it. if there's any reason to believe there's a problem, let's look into it. that is what the commission is doing. the commission will tell us what it has found and we will act accordingly, probably in concert with it. but to pretend that in this case the most sinister totalitarianism is returning, on the pretext that some laws do not correspond to community law, seems a little excessive to me and mr cohn-bendit, you know that too.
mr president, respect for fundamental values must remain the rule. any doubts about this should be a cause for concern. so it is in our best interests to base our judgment on facts that have been objectively examined. the more we can be sure that the criticisms of a member state are based on reality, the better for the objectivity of the debate. i would therefore ask the commission if it could ask the european agency for fundamental rights to provide us with information, not just today but whenever we are faced with such cases. it would be incomprehensible for the european agency, which is empowered to deal with fundamental rights, to remain silent when these rights are clearly being violated. i would ask the commission to undertake to instruct the agency, first, to provide the agency with an opinion and, secondly, to ensure that it is published.
in writing. the report on the agricultural input distribution chain offers an often relevant analysis of european agricultural deficiencies. not only does europe remain "heavily dependent on fossil fuel imports", but also on animal feed, phosphates and other inputs. but the report offers no solutions, except to ask the commission for new reports, for 'deeper' analyses. the commission is asked to 'look at the problem' of the fact that most of the natural phosphate comes from five countries. the commission cannot change the world map by lying on it. the report notes that "cheaper animal feed is (available) on the world market". this includes genetically modified soybeans, which account for 80% of world production. the rapporteur is a leading figure in the anti-gmo movement and is fighting against the shale gas, which is abundant in europe and whose exploitation could help reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. in the face of these contradictions, i abstained.
in writing. - i did not vote against the motion for a resolution because i do not want to vote with the anti-european mob. i have abstained in protest against a development which is as adventurous as it is dangerous. the agreement of the 25 countries is outside the eu's treaty base. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. that's legally challenged. the treaty is intended to cover 25 eu countries, but will already enter into force once 12 have ratified it. what happens if a state does not ratify it or a people refuses to ratify it? does the treaty still apply to all? first of all, the treaty relies exclusively on austerity as a means of all policies. the german concept of the mechanical debt brake will be applied in germany only in 2016 and 2019 respectively. nobody knows if it'll work. however, it is now expected to have constitutional status throughout europe. i'm against it.
the commission has already done so. i support the compromise reached in the trilogue which is intended to strengthen the bargaining power of dairy farmers vis-à-vis the processing industry, although i know that in some member states it does not solve all the problems that dairy farmers are currently facing. the commission president, mr mansholt, already 50 years ago envisaged preferential measures for the creation of producer groups within the framework of the cap. in my country, luxembourg, too, the dairy sector is the backbone of our agriculture, because of the high proportion of green land. our agriculture and our farmers have long understood that the best solution is to join together in a cooperative which takes over the processing of the milk itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to finance the creation of new jobs. the european commission has the right of initiative to propose legislation and i would therefore urge you to submit a legislative proposal to the council and the european parliament in 2012 to remedy this obvious and costly flaw in the system. a linear reduction of the superlevy per litre of milk delivered by 2015 or the abolition of the fat correction could at least mitigate the negative effects of the expiry of the scheme without harming the member states not concerned. the present milk package is also the final report of the high level group, which is intended to help the milk quota exit to a soft landing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota system is not abused, and that the milk quota system is not abused, and that the milk quota system is not abused, and that the milk quota system is not abused. this is a huge additional and unnecessary capital outlay which puts them at a disadvantage compared to their counterparts in the other 22 member states.
mr president, i have a very simple question to which i would like a precise answer from the council and the commission. who authorized the troika to impose on the greek government, parliament and people a 22% reduction in the minimum social wage? was it the european council and president van rompuy? was it the commission and president barroso? or was it the eurogroup and president juncker? i cannot imagine that these anonymous and politically irresponsible officials have decided, in complete independence, then totalitarian, these absurd measures such as the reduction of pensions or this reduction of the minimum social wage from 870 euros to 586 euros? who can believe that by cutting off the purchasing power of the lowest workers such as housewives, small shopkeepers and night watchmen, the greek economy and greek exports can be revived? if you want a specific question, you have to give a specific answer. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. − mr president, this was a very lively debate and a lot of direct questions were addressed to the commission. some of the comments on the issue were not very positive, but please bear with me and i will try to respect the time limit. first there was a question asking what the official position of the commission was on greece. i want to make it absolutely clear that in the commission we want greece to remain a member of the euro area. we have stated this many times and i am very glad that i can restate it today. i would go even further. i would say that greece does not have a closer and better ally than the commission these days. from day one – in athens, in brussels, in all the capitals where the issue of greece was discussed – we have been present and we have been trying to do our utmost to help and assist greece. the commission and all the officials are working flat out to iron out the programme for greece and to help greece to prepare a realistic and good programme. we have worked day and night, with no summer breaks, no winter breaks and no weekends, all day long. i have to say that we have always been looking for ways in which to get the best solution for greece and how to get it supported by the citizens in greece. do not forget, these solutions must be also supported in other member states, because – and i know that we probably disagree on this with some of you – we are already talking about unprecedented support which has been offered to help greece. therefore i cannot comment on, and i resent, mr cohn-bendit’s comments concerning marco buti or other officials of the commission. they really do not deserve this. we do not have ultra-liberal taliban, but hard-working, dedicated officials who are keeping greece from falling into the abyss of disorderly default. what is the difference between the situation and the plan the troika offered and disorderly default? i think the best you can do is listen to the very graphic description of this possibility made by the greek prime minister, mr papademos, or the greek finance minister, mr venizelos. there was criticism here of the measures on the salaries and pensions, but do we know of an alternative? what would be an alternative to disorderly default? what would be the consequences? i think that the greek parliament has realised how dreadful this alternative is and, therefore, supported the proposals made by the troika by a big majority of two-thirds. they supported the package. regarding the concrete question from mr goebbels of who suggested the minimum wage cut by 22%; this was a request from the eurogroup. and why? because this measure is essential to fight unemployment and restore competitiveness to the greek economy. it is also important to consider the context. labour costs in greece rose by 54% in the years following 2000, compared with 28% in portugal and 18% in germany. it is true that they have fallen by an average of 40% over the two years 2010 and 2011, but more clearly needs to be done. the minimum monthly wage in greece is at present eur 110 higher than in spain, and eur 266 higher than in portugal. these are the facts. (cries of dissent) what else has the commission done for greece? i would just like to list some of the measures. eu cofinancing rates have been boosted by 10% to as high as 95%. eur 500 million of eu funding is being reprogrammed so it can be used to guarantee financing provided to smes. around 180 major projects are being kick-started, which will result in 100 000 jobs, including in the construction phase. all this whilst the eu is providing continued financial solidarity to greece. the two programmes put together amount to eur 240 billion, and this is equivalent to over 100% of the greek gdp. i know that some political forces question the adequacy of the amount of financial assistance provided to greece, but it should also be recalled that the level of support in this unprecedented show of solidarity reflects the mandate given by the member states under which the troika and greece have conducted the negotiations. you also know very well that the commission was helping the greek authorities to negotiate with psi – private sector investors – on private sector involvement. this may result in an overall figure – including both programmes and the private sector involvement as a result of the negotiations – of well over eur 300 billion. so i think it is evident that the effort being made is huge. concerning the eurogroup meeting of today, yesterday it became clear that the second programme and arrangements for its funding from both sides – greece and the eurogroup – both need to be finalised. today there will be a conference call and the commission will do its utmost to put all the finishing touches to the agreement, because we want this to be a success and we want to do our utmost to help greece. i hope that we will have a positive result next monday when the eurogroup and the ecofin ministers meet. if you will allow me, i will also comment on two other questions. mr daul asked what the european spring summit will be about. it will be about economic governance and about growth and jobs. i agree with him 100% that what we need to do is to progress much faster with the single market act, and i would like to thank this parliament for its support. i had a very constructive meeting yesterday with the conference of committee chairs, where i think we made quite good progress. i really felt the strong will to go faster with the legislative proposals, so we can remove the remaining barriers to the single market which are preventing the european union from using it better to create new jobs and economic growth. the services directive is a pain – i agree with you, mr president – and therefore we took three member states to the court because delaying putting this very important growth-enhancing measure into operation is unacceptable. my last point is to mr lamberts. yesterday we adopted for the first time the alert mechanism report and we are going to screen and analyse the situation of the 12 member states. france is among them. in the event that germany is not within the established indicators, i can assure that the german situation will be analysed as well. we will do our utmost to be absolutely fair and to use the new economic governance tool we have at our disposal with the utmost efficiency and utmost fairness.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, on behalf of the council i should like to thank you for a lively and very engaged debate on the part of parliament. i would also like to make it quite clear that we have listened and that we will, as far as possible, use the good advice given here today. it is very important for the danish presidency to make it clear that the line drawn with a responsible economic policy - where you tighten your seat belts and where we have to implement the six-pack and the other economic measures with precision and with full effect in order to ensure that europe gets back on track - will be a top priority for the danish presidency. but i also want to make it very clear that it cannot stand alone. it also requires us to set a clear course for growth and for job creation. the danish presidency sees the two things as going hand in hand: economic austerity on the one hand and growth and jobs on the other. we cannot be satisfied with one, we must have both if we are to get europe and the european union back on the right track. it was therefore very positive that at the informal meeting of heads of state or government on 30 january it was made quite clear that growth and jobs must now be very high on the european agenda, and that it was said that it was particularly important to create jobs and opportunities for young people who, everywhere in europe, are looking to the european parliament, looking to the commission, looking to the member states to get an answer to one question, namely how they can be guaranteed and have a real chance of a job in our europe. millions of young people are waiting for an answer, and we must give it together. it is therefore absolutely essential that we start creating opportunities for the seven million young people who lack jobs or education. we must also, of course, have a perspective that applies to all the 23 million europeans in the eu who are currently out of work. this is a top priority for the danish presidency and i would like to thank all the members of parliament here today who have raised this important issue and told us how we are ensuring that it remains on the agenda. i would like to thank both mr daul and mr swoboda and all the other speakers who have very clearly sent that signal. as far as greece is concerned, our position is clear: we have a joint responsibility in europe to help greece out of the crisis. but of course greece also has a responsibility to help itself out of the crisis. we therefore think it was a good thing that the greek parliament took a hard, difficult but also necessary decision the other day. this does not mean that all the problems have been solved, but it does mean that we can now begin to get greece back on track, hopefully in earnest. we must also tell our greek friends that, although it was important to take decisions in parliament, it is even more important to put them into practice. we all have a responsibility to help greece, and all the political actors in greece also have a responsibility to help make this a reality. in other words, we have a very important meeting ahead of us. although we have talked a lot about the economy today, although we have talked a lot about greece today, it is also important to remember that the outlook and direction of a presidency also concerns other areas, and that is also why the international environmental/climate agenda is important to put both at the g8, at the g20 and, of course, at the eu+20 meetings. i would also like to emphasize the remarks made by mr guerrero that we must remember as a parliament and also as a commission and as member states to speak out strongly for european values and to oppose any measure of protectionism, whether it be self-sufficiency or attacks on the right to diversity in europe. that is an important point, which i hope everyone listened to. finally, my final remark is that at a time when europe is in such a deep crisis as it is right now, from the point of view of the danish presidency, it is absolutely essential that we have close cooperation between this parliament, between the commission and also between the member states. it is not the time to fight each other, it is the time to stand shoulder to shoulder for the sake of the seven million young people who deserve a second chance, for the sake of the 23 million who will have jobs, and for the sake of getting europe back on track.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to address the commissioner. you will find an article in the rules of procedure which allows this. commissioner, you said here that all the troika initiatives were approved by the commission. but at the request of the eurogroup, is that true? and if that is true, is that the commission's right of initiative?
in writing. - i support the compromise reached in the trilogue, which is intended to strengthen the bargaining power of dairy farmers vis-à-vis the processing industry, although it does not solve all the problems. the milk package presented here is the final report of the high level group, which is intended to bring the milk quota exit to a soft landing. it is surprising that milk quotas are not mentioned at any point in this report. the young and ambitious farmers in luxembourg and four other member states who are trying to prepare for the liberalisation of the milk market can only do so by buying quotas even now, so close to the end of the milk quota system. this means a huge additional and unnecessary capital outlay, which puts them at a disadvantage compared to their colleagues in 22 member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the european commission has a monopoly on legislative proposals! i hereby call on them to take up their responsibility and to submit a legislative proposal to the council and the european parliament in 2012 to remedy this obvious and costly flaw in the system. a linear reduction by 2015 of the super levy per kilogram of milk delivered or the abolition of the fat correction could at least mitigate the negative effects of the expiry of the scheme without harming the member states not concerned.
mr president, the year 2001-12 is starting off particularly badly. among those who claim responsibility for the worst human rights violations is syria, its president, and his harem of supporters who are with him in this end of rule, which we hope will come as soon as possible. the iranian authorities are the main ones, but they are not the only ones, who share responsibility for crimes against humanity. what is particularly worrying is the attitude of the two members of the un security council, who continue to oppose more effective measures against the syrian regime. one of them, russia, although a member of the council of europe, is persistent and unwavering in its refusal to side with those who are trying to put an end to the barbarism that is now associated with the name of the city of homs. this scandal, unfortunately, is damaging the goodwill of all humanists around the world, whether they work in civil society or in any of the many institutions devoted to the defence of human rights. nothing, no political, commercial or geostrategic considerations could justify the shameful attitude of states which block all the means at the disposal of the international community to respond to the homs scandal. i hope that the 19th session of the united nations human rights council will be an opportunity to remind everyone of their most basic responsibilities in respecting the dignity of the human person. the european union, built on the principle of the irreducibility of human dignity, is perhaps best placed to make this call.
madam president, it is a very good idea to discuss here, on the occasion of international women's day, reports on the situation of women in the european union, particularly as regards equal treatment and equal opportunities for men and women in all areas. unfortunately, the committee on women's rights and gender equality has once again missed the opportunity to produce reports which could have been voted by a large majority in committee and found a large majority in plenary. why is it not possible to reach a consensus on the progress that clearly remains to be made in most member states to ensure equal rights, equal treatment and equal opportunities for men and women? unfortunately, because those who consider themselves to be on the left, in this committee and in the plenary, take a clever pleasure in inserting in these reports demands which fall within the scope of subsidiarity - whether it be the guaranteed minimum income or abortion - or extremist positions which are even unworkable in good economic times. i deeply regret that the self-proclaimed monopolists of equality, who insist on these ideological and populist proposals, are doing women a very bad service and are hindering progress instead of promoting it. the unfortunate estrela report on maternity protection is a perfect illustration of this. if we and the commission had been listened to, the minimum duration of maternity leave in the european union would have been increased by at least two weeks, for at least a year. as regards quotas for the purpose of equality, i have a certain understanding for the women who have approached me on this subject, who do not want to know anything about quotas because they themselves are successful without quotas and who are afraid of being classified as women with quotas, that is to say in the same category as those who are promoted only through quotas. the european parliament has the most balanced gender ratio, namely 35 per cent women and 60 per cent men. because what they want, what the germans call der gläserne abgeordnete, what they will certainly try very diligently to do, is to find out what is happening to the remaining 5%, who are neither women nor men. we must correct this in the german version, and perhaps in other versions, because there are certainly 35% women and 65% men in this house, which is obviously far from parity and, above all, absolutely not balanced.
mr president, the most important reform to be made is to reduce the number of summits of heads of state and government. they're practically useless. the euro is doing better thanks to the european central bank and mario draghi. however, the announcement of the summits raises hopes that there is no future. the last summit produced a few empty words about stronger growth but nothing tangible, for example, on the fight against youth unemployment. moreover, the good european professions of faith of the leaders are evaporating at the national level. president sarkozy claims to be the leader of europe and has boasted of having drawn up the treaty of lisbon. the candidate sarkozy is now threatening to leave schengen. has he not already realised that the schengen agreements are an integral part of the treaty, article 67 of which requires 'no checks on persons at internal borders'? to leave schengen, france would therefore have to leave the european union. what does mr sarkozy want to control, anyway? the 1.4 billion annual movements across internal borders? the millions of tourists who flock to france each summer? the half million french people who work as border guards in neighbouring countries? all these populist initiatives serve only to mask the leaders' inability to invest in a real growth policy. we have seen this with greece, where europe has imposed measures that have led to a contraction in domestic demand, the bankruptcy of 200,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, the sabotage of the purchasing power of the greeks, and now greece is in a growth freeze.
mr president, at the risk of being unoriginal, let me say that violence, and even barbarism, which is unfortunately on the agenda in nigeria, finds a very fertile ground for its development. nigeria is still unable to fulfil its royal duties, including the protection of its citizens. its authority is regularly undermined by factions acting either in the service of islamic fundamentalism or in the service of violence against religious and ethnic minorities. it should be remembered, however, that nigeria is not a state without resources. these, and in particular the oil manna, are not or are not well used for the needs of the population. the measures approved by the commission to remedy the instability in the niger delta, to work on improving governance, to support anti-corruption measures, and so on, are certainly relevant and useful but the responsibility lies primarily with the nigerian authorities.
mr president, the importance of the subject and its development dimension would have justified involving the european parliament's committee on development in the preparation of this debate. public good, millennium development goal 7, water is either too scarce or polluted, often both. water anchoring should be a strategic priority in all policy approaches, in all partnerships of the european union with developing countries. water is a public good that is essential for human survival, and it cannot be treated as a mere commodity. it therefore seems appropriate to provide safeguards to prevent any breach of this principle. i do not believe that the activity of the contractor who helps to build the water supply and sanitation infrastructure or the craftsman who has to repair a leak - all from the private sector - infringes this principle. what must be avoided is that private interests should not prevail over the general interest.
in writing. i did not vote for the davies report. it is an illusion to try to define the evolution of technology and its impact on the economy and employment until 2050. it is, in fact, an escape from irresponsibility, a mirroring of a world that will be almost perfect in about 40 years. europe will have a hard time achieving the objectives of the 20/20 strategy in 2020. it is not by unilaterally increasing our emission reduction targets that we will achieve faster results. the european union's share of global greenhouse gas emissions is decreasing anyway. europe cannot bear the burden alone. in this context, the wishful thinking of the davies report will remain illusory.
madam president, it seems to me that you have gone a little too fast with the vote on the second paragraph of paragraph 89. i'm requesting an electronic check on the second paragraph.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the oomen-ruijten report. i am one of those who believe that turkey has its place in the european union. although there is still room for internal reform, the parliament's recurrent resolutions on turkey seem to emphasise all the more negative aspects, omitting the great progress made by turkish society in recent years. the eu is obviously trying to gain time with the turkish authorities so that it does not have to decide on turkey's membership of the eu.
in writing. i abstained on all three resolutions. in principle, i am in favour of a europe open to further enlargements. but the commission's strategy for negotiating these future accessions overlooks the essential question: how could the european union function properly with 30 or 35 members? what financial framework is needed to enable these countries, which are generally very poor, to integrate into the internal market and, above all, to become competitive in the euro area? the rules governing the union should be developed before any enlargement. a much stronger financial perspective and even more support for developing economies will be needed. the union cannot become an ever-larger internal market without more solidarity and more transfers.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say that i see no objective reason to accede to the request of the socialist group. you know, mr president, that last sunday mr sarkozy made concorde a meeting place and he urged the crowd, saying: 'do not be afraid!' like mr sarkozy, i am not sure i will win, but i am not afraid either. i should like to inform you that parliament's consultation on this draft commission directive is dated 29 april 2011. we've been talking about it for seven months in committee. my report was adopted on 29 february and we are now at the end of april. it would be pointless to extend the deadlines, because the stakes are clear. it is not so, as mr swoboda says, that the situation is misunderstood. no, the liberals and the socialists have also voted in favour of the increase in diesel prices. i have lost in the ausschuss. there is now a request that we should be able to vote on this proportionality. (the president cut off the speaker) i wanted to say that only in german, so that the colleagues also understand that their arguments are not sound. it is clear that the economic situation does not require this signal. they want to give it to you, and they have given it to the committee. mr president, there comes a time when we no longer talk, but decide, and that is why i believe we must decide this week. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would be tempted to introduce my remarks with the words: 'what a waste!' we are now facing a country in crisis which was once a model pupil, particularly in its capacity for democratic alternation. mali now faces three challenges: the restoration of democracy, the restoration of territorial unity and the improvement of the living conditions of malians who are still dependent on external aid. how can these challenges be met? the responsibility for this lies, of course, first and foremost with mali. however, as the same threats are facing neighbouring countries, the response must also be regional. hence the indispensable role of the economic community of west african states (ecowas), which works in close partnership with the european union. as europeans, we have a clear interest in supporting the economic community of west african states in thinking about a post-gaddafi strategy, given that the upheavals in libya are at least partly caused by events in the sahel region. our experience and expertise in cooperation in a wide range of fields puts us in a position to share lessons with countries in difficulty. the european sahel strategy, which was drawn up a year ago, integrates all these dimensions. in conclusion, i would like to see the situation normalized as soon as possible so that we can resume development cooperation, which has been suspended since the military coup.
mr president, the commission's statements follow one another and are similar. more jobs, more growth, more internal market - all of these sound good, but in the end they are empty words, repeated over and over again for five years in all the commission's communications without any effect. the merkozy decision-makers have, in the end, only one recipe: fiscal consolidation through austerity. all the leading economists paul krugman, joseph stiglitz, wolfgang münchau, thomas piketty tell us that the union is learning the wrong lessons from the crisis, that it has embarked i quote on an absurd race towards the so-called social minimum, austerity policies that crush growth, and finally the temptation of each for himself. i have just quoted the group of economists led by philippe aghion of harvard. the gravity of the situation demands immediate action. instead of dreaming of sustainable development, let us fight for strong growth. so to revive the greek economy, the greek banks need to be recapitalised immediately. the 78 projects identified by the task force as eligible for structural fund funding must be implemented as quickly as possible. finally, it is necessary to decide on an increase in the capital of the eib. we need to start project bonds. the member states with the margin must be encouraged to revive their economies and, therefore, the european economy. growth, growth, growth, that's all that matters!
i'm the reporter. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate on energy taxation in europe must be conducted on the basis of the observation that tax harmonization in the european union has always made only modest progress. it is therefore illusory in our position, which is that of an adviser who is not the payer, to advocate the big tax night. i see the role of the european parliament much more in seeking a compromise acceptable to the greatest number of states - or even to all of them, since unanimity in the council is required - rather than in the practice of an exercise in style. the proposal for a directive which has been submitted to us for an opinion is much more than an update of the text which dates from 2003. this time it is to support the objective of a low-carbon economy and, through the introduction of a co2 element, to promote the union's commitments to combat climate change. can taxation help to achieve these objectives? perhaps, but things are not as simple as some would have us believe. i am certainly in favour of the commission's methodological approach, which aims to tax energy on a double basis, that of co2 emissions and that of energy content. this was widely agreed in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in the other committees for its opinion. the other innovation, however, the one concerning proportionality, has deeply divided. it does not seem to me to be appropriate to require member states which set their rates above the minimum levels to respect the proportionality between the various minimum thresholds applicable to each energy source. this somewhat abstract term would have very tangible consequences. this would generally lead to an increase in energy prices, which are already rising. proportionality would lead more specifically to a very substantial increase in the price of diesel in virtually all member states which would be required to replicate the new 9% tax gap between diesel and petrol. in germany and france, for example, the increase would exceed 22 cents per litre of diesel. another consequence is the rise in the price of transport of goods and people - a sector entirely dependent on diesel - and the penalisation of the european automobile sector, which is a world leader in diesel technology. my group has therefore decided to re-introduce an amendment calling for the principle of proportionality to be rejected. if, for some reason, we fail to reject this principle tomorrow, we have a second amendment, which i do not prefer, of course, but which is the red line in our ranks of what is acceptable, namely a highly conditional proportionality, which would apply only from 2030, which would be introduced only following reassuring conclusions from an impact study - for example on european industrial competitiveness - and which would allow each of the member states to maintain a distinction between commercial diesel and non-commercial diesel. mr president, i take two minutes because i have to deal with another point, the exemption for air and sea transport. it is an unfortunate coincidence that this is the most extreme amendment to have been adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the european commission has made it clear that this full inclusion is not legally possible because of international conventions. we must therefore go back to the commission's original text. the european union, ladies and gentlemen, is not an island, let alone in the world's air and sea transport sector. i would also like to ask my colleagues what the deep meaning of these political initiatives is, which lead to shooting ourselves in the foot compared to competition which does not require so much. in conclusion, i have tried in this report to defend a realistic view of things, which is not opposed to progress. if this view prevails, it would enable us to make our case to the council, where a very large majority of the member states remain very reserved.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for your views expressed during this debate. as you may know, the danish presidency views this file as a high priority. however, the positions of member states on major issues are still very divergent and even opposing. in particular, support for and opposition to the principle of the split in the tax base with a co2 and energy content element remains fairly evenly distributed. your strong support and constructive approach in this area would therefore be an important signal for the member states. as mentioned by ms van brempt, it is time to show some backbone in our objectives. after all, this proposal reflects what parliament has been calling for for years. i would like to remind you all that this proposal is a key initiative in the single market act. everybody supports the single market act, and the proposal on the energy taxation directive is one of 12 keys initiatives in this. as i said earlier, the commission can accept some of the amendments adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), including some proposing longer transitional periods. it will endeavour to take these amendments into consideration as much as possible during the deliberations in the council. several other amendments are already covered by the proposal. as regards the treatment of agriculture, i would like to make it clear that the member states will retain the possibility of exempting agriculture, provided that some environmental counterpart is ensured. the debate today has concentrated on transport fuels. however, i would like to stress again that isolating the co2 element in energy taxation would allow companies that are subject to the ets to be exempt from it. this would mean lower taxes and increased growth. again, i wish to thank you for your broad support in moving forward with this initiative, and i hope that the vote tomorrow will be very positive.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, you know that anything exaggerated is insignificant. that is why i will not respond to colleagues who have spoken on this very controversial subject - i agree - without the necessary seriousness and objectivity and, unfortunately, by indulging in a populism - especially on the part of the greens - of the wrong kind, or by misunderstanding the subject, as the representative of the non-attached. we have to make a decision. at a time when crude oil prices are soaring, it is not appropriate to signal that we must also increase taxes, which already account for up to two thirds of the price at the pump. do you want to be complicit in a signal that the european parliament would send today to our citizens and our industries that fuel prices, and especially diesel prices, should skyrocket? you'll take responsibility for it, and tomorrow we'll see. i am convinced that the european parliament will send the right signal to the member states. reporting on the state of play. - i would like to say to mr lambsdorff that i am glad that he has understood, that it is important that the german social democrats can know not only the north rhine-westphalian workers but also, and i hope, above all, the ig-metall and its works councils. then you are on the right track. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. it's not true, as he said yesterday. germany cannot raise the price of diesel. if proportionality is achieved, germany must also raise its taxes on diesel by 9% more than on petrol. i had to get it right. tomorrow we'll see where the mind lies in this house.
madam president, after an hour and forty minutes of debate, i still have the impression that this agreement, unfortunately, does not have much to do with either security or protection of privacy but has much more to do with creating a european legal framework for the enforcement of us pnr practices. there is no doubt that the united states can act as it wishes with respect to what it requires of somebody who enters its territory. it is up to those who want to enter its territory to decide whether or not they want to comply with that. there is also no doubt that the united states will go to any length to obtain what it seeks – and that is where our problems lie, because we are dealing with an executive agreement in this particular case. most unfortunately, the united states does not have a lisbon treaty conferring upon the senate or congress the unconditional right to ratify international agreements that the united states enters into. this one is entered into by the president of the united states and cannot – and will not – either create or confer rights that do not already exist under current us law. as sorry as i am – for myself and also for my group, without whom i have to vote today – i cannot give my consent to an agreement which does not change what currently happens because it cannot do so. with this agreement, nobody will stand in line any less long than they currently do. with this agreement, nobody will be treated any better at a border crossing point in the united states than they currently are; and, indeed, nobody will have any sort of better data protection than they currently have. in case of need, the united states will just have to say that the sort of redress sought by a european citizen is not allowed by current us law. i am sorry, but i cannot agree to this.
in writing. my vote against the agreement on the use and transfer of passenger data to the united states has a twofold motivation. first, this agreement is an executive agreement under u.s. law, which will not be ratified by the senate and cannot create rights for the benefit of anyone. the united states is therefore under no obligation to apply the 'guarantees' for european passengers contained in the agreement if it considers that its domestic law is contrary to it. the legal remedies which european citizens would seek in american courts against misuse of data would therefore be compromised in advance. the agreement does not improve the legal situation of european passengers bound for the united states, since its status under us law does not allow for the creation of new rights. secondly, this agreement is merely a european ratification of us practices in the transfer of passenger personal data. i think this practice is grossly excessive and i cannot agree to a text which, apart from the extremely burdensome entry procedures into the united states, subjects travellers of good faith to general suspicion. we cannot fight terrorism and major crime by making every passenger of a transatlantic flight feel guilty in advance.
in writing. - under the pretext of a sustainable energy policy, the directive is primarily aimed at taxing diesel more heavily than petrol. this may be in the interests of the oil industry, and in particular of the refineries, which have problems selling gasoline. the proposed price increases, especially for diesel products, will be inflationary. as 98% of all trucks are diesel-powered, the price increases for diesel will raise the cost of the whole logistics chain and put pressure on the economy and consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the directive also sends the wrong signal in terms of european industrial policy and is contrary to the directives adopted so far to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicles.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr president of the council, madam commissioner, there will be a price cut for voice calls, sms and data for all european consumers from 1 july next, then again from 1 july 2013, and finally from 1 july 2014. these cuts will be important because the european parliament wanted them and imposed them. in this connection, i would like to thank all the colleagues who stood up to the council and the commission at the right time and i would especially like to thank our colleague angelika niebler, who was an exemplary rapporteur. the commission's initial proposal was not very ambitious. it was mainly aimed at lowering wholesale prices in order to stimulate largely non-existent competition between operators. the council was divided. many countries remain under the influence of their former national monopolies. the council was therefore seeking to preserve the profits of these national telephone champions. this is precisely where the problem of the mobile communications market in the european union lies. the market is dominated by a cartel, or at least a de facto cartel. the four major groups vodaphone, deutsche telekom, orange and telefónica movistar share some 80% of the mobile communications market in our union. they are present in all or almost all national markets, either directly or in alliance with national operators. and yet these groups, all of which operate at the level of the union, want to maintain national borders at all costs in order to tax homelessness better. i am one of those who believe in the necessity of competition, the famous invisible hand dear to adam smith. but i believe even more strongly in the need for the visible hand of public power to intervene in the markets and impose price reductions if necessary. parliament has just taken an important step towards the gradual abolition of these unjustified and unjustifiable roaming charges. our aim must remain a single market which also applies to mobile communications. the socialist group in particular succeeded in requiring the commission to present a report by 30 june 2016 at the latest, which would allow the assessment of the price developments on the market. i quote article 19 (2): 'if the report finds that the structural measures provided for in this regulation have been insufficient to strengthen competition in the internal market for roaming services for the benefit of all european consumers or that the differences between roaming and national tariffs are not close to zero, the commission shall make appropriate proposals to the european parliament and the council to remedy the situation and thus achieve an internal market for mobile communications services, eventually without distinction between national and roaming tariffs. 'this is and remains our ambition, madam commissioner, and i know that the vast majority of members of parliament support us in this respect. what we are going to vote on tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, is in fact a gift to all europeans on the occasion of the european day we are celebrating today. it is a gift that will be very much appreciated, because, as angelika niebler has just said, but also the commissioner, everyone needs his mobile phone or other devices that make up the world of modern communication.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the importance of regional airports is well known. i abstained on this report because i have a problem with the definition of regional airports. the description given here, namely 'airports whose main catchment area is above a capital city', not to fall within the scope of this report means that a large number of smaller airports with relatively low passenger numbers would not be considered as regional airports. these include, for example, lyon and dresden, prague, dublin, liège and luxembourg. i think that we must work on a more appropriate definition, one which is more in keeping with reality. i would also like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. the resolution accompanying the discharge on the implementation of the 2010 budget of the european parliament again contains its share of contradictions, errors or foolish ideas. that is why i opposed this text, although i have no problem with voting for discharge, as do my colleagues. i do not understand why our legal service does not declare certain amendments inadmissible and also certain paragraphs which have nothing to do with discharge, for example paragraph 96, which is in contradiction with paragraph 95. how can a committee make a royal mockery of the legal service's opinion that an amendment is inadmissible? one of the most absurd requests is to seek the opinion of the court of auditors on the system of subsidies for visitor groups. the bureau has just changed that regime. there is no risk of unnecessary payments, as these are packages which barely cover the costs. i must also correct paragraph 68, which mentions the relatively high number of luxembourg nationals in the staff, namely 2.3%. that number is wrong. there are 117 luxembourg civil servants in all, covering 5 540 posts... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
mr president, i am a little surprised to see what the priorities of this parliament are when reading this week's agenda. we asked for permission to put an oral question on the situation in the dairy sector. it was not adopted, although we have, once again, adopted a debate on homophobia. we have a charter of human rights in the treaty and no discrimination is allowed. so i would like to know, mr president, why we are not dealing with the priorities that concern our economy. we want growth, but instead of dealing with agriculture, we deal with homophobia. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, commissioner, madam minister, even if it might seem that this morning we are having a phantom debate, given the reality in the council, i would nevertheless remind you that the committee on the internal market has welcomed the commission's proposals rather positively, and this for three main reasons. firstly, if we want to avoid serious distortions of the internal market in any type of taxation of financial transactions, the territorial base of this tax must be the union, and the union alone. neither the eurozone nor an alternative geographical arrangement can be the appropriate basis or framework for this. only the union has an internal market. only the union has a budget. all other considerations relating to the budget and the proper functioning of the internal market can only be valid if they can be valid throughout the union. secondly, we have made it clear that this would logically be a tax which would favour certain sound financial transactions which are required for the economy, such as the fund industry, for which we have proposed that funds should be taxed less than derivatives or high-frequency transactions, and that there are others which should be penalized. finally, we insisted that it should be a genuine own resource, because we are not going to invent the first truly european tax just to save the budgets of the member states.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i would like to ask mr strejček whether he is aware of the writings of eminent members of this house, such as alain lamassoure, guy verhofstadt and others, on the rearrangement of the budget of the european union, which would consist precisely in replacing the current national contributions with own resources, as required by the treaties. secondly, i would like to ask him whether this opposition to own resources is not, for his group, rather a means of preventing individual member states from losing their power of negotiation in the future by arranging their national contributions as they see fit?
mr president, i would like the committee on economic and monetary affairs to work harder than it has in recent months to define the terms of a financial transaction tax. this would have helped him to avoid a fundamental contradiction that damages the text as a whole. how can we start with a laudable intention to curb financial speculation, which is considered so harmful, and then punish financial instruments whose purpose is to collect long-term savings? that is what the podimata report is leading to for the time being by taxing ucits in the same way as other financial institutions. this treatment calls for two basic remarks. the first is that the rapporteur seems to be aware of the problem of consistency, since pension funds have finally been excluded from the scope of the directive. but if that is the case, then you have to go to the end of the rationale, because the vast majority of pension funds invest in collective savings instruments. i must therefore say to my colleagues: 'another effort, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to adopt a coherent approach.' secondly - and this is the most serious point - treating the various financial institutions equally is, in fact, to introduce intolerable inequality. investment funds are by their nature constantly trading in their portfolios. that's what they're for. to tax each transaction in the same way as high-frequency trading is to introduce a cascading taxation so disadvantageous that the european fund industry would be doomed in the face of competition from third countries, which are already enjoying it. and i don't think we can condone that. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of the february amendment concerning this exemption.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, baroness ashton, who cannot be present today to discuss the deteriorating situation between sudan and south sudan. it is indeed with deep concern that we witness increasing tensions between these two countries. we reached a critical stage last month with south sudan’s seizure and occupation of the heglig oil fields and sudan’s ongoing aerial bombardment of south sudanese territory. the high representative strongly condemned these acts by both sides and urged both parties to end hostilities immediately and return to the negotiating table. president van rompuy telephoned south sudan’s president salva kiir to call for the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of its forces. on 23 april, the foreign affairs council welcomed south sudan’s withdrawal from heglig under strong international pressure and called for an immediate cessation of hostilities, including an end to attacks by the two countries on each other’s territory whether directly or through proxies, the withdrawal of all security personnel from abyei and the avoidance of further provocation, including inflammatory rhetoric. on 24 april the african union peace and security council adopted a roadmap with a series of clear steps and timelines for ending hostilities and bringing the parties back to the negotiating table. following that, on 2 may, the un security council unanimously adopted resolution 2046 which endorsed the african union’s roadmap. this is a major step. it reflects a high degree of consensus in the international community. it is also significant that this initiative came from the african union (au). sudan and south sudan have both accepted the roadmap and a cessation of hostilities. now they must match their words by action. the parties must take the necessary steps to activate the joint border verification and monitoring mission immediately. in her statement on 5 may, the high representative warmly welcomed the roadmap set out in un security council resolution 2046. the eu calls on the parties to implement it without qualification or delay. the eu welcomes south sudan’s withdrawal of its forces from the abyei area and calls on the government of sudan to do so too. both parties must also stop supporting rebels and proxy forces in each other’s territory. the parties now have three months to reach agreement on all outstanding issues. if they fail to do so, the un, the au and the intergovernmental authority on development (igad) will present detailed proposals for a settlement. in the event of non-compliance, the security council has threatened to impose non-military sanctions. the roadmap also addresses the conflict in southern kordofan and blue nile state, which is linked to the current tensions between sudan and south sudan. the government of sudan must allow immediate humanitarian access to all civilians affected by the conflict. we believe that an inclusive political settlement is needed to resolve this conflict. the eu would urge the government of sudan and the sudanese people’s liberation movement (splm) in the north to comply with the requirement in the security council resolution to reach a negotiated settlement. the eu thinks that progress on inclusive governance and democratic reform is needed in both sudan and south sudan to allow the root causes of internal conflicts to be addressed. the national constitutional review process in both countries is an important opportunity in this respect, provided the process is fully inclusive. in the north, we remain seriously concerned about the detention of human rights defenders, journalists, opposition politicians and peaceful student protestors. one of the basic principles of the comprehensive peace agreement was the establishment of democratic governance, based on respect for diversity and basic freedoms. in the south, the human rights situation is also of concern. we welcome the recent visit of the un human rights high commissioner navi pillay to south sudan to help the government address these challenges. the eu remains committed to the concept of two viable states. we were pleased that president salva kiir, when he visited brussels in march, informed us of his government’s wish to accede to the eu-acp partnership agreement, the cotonou agreement. this will provide us with a framework for future development cooperation. as partners, we can establish a dialogue on the issues which are the core principles of this partnership: democracy, the rule of law, and human rights. the eu has mobilised substantial development assistance for south sudan in the form of ‘special funds’ from the european development fund to a total of eur 285 million. we will support south sudan’s development agenda and nation-building efforts through support for rural development and agriculture, health and education, as well as the rule of law and democratic governance. the eu is also planning to deploy a common security and defence policy mission to increase security at juba international airport. in the north, we find the government’s decision not to ratify the revised cotonou agreement of 2005 regrettable. nevertheless, the eu has made development funds available to assist the most vulnerable populations in conflict-affected areas such as darfur, eastern sudan, southern kordofan and blue nile. this is in addition to our substantial humanitarian assistance programme. we also support democratisation, human rights and grassroots inter-community dialogue. we must not forget the conflict in darfur, where the situation is still of great concern. although there have been some voluntary returns, some 1.7 million internally displaced people are still living in camps, and there has been fresh displacement. the joint un/au peacekeeping mission, unamid, still faces restrictions on its freedom of movement imposed by the government of sudan. humanitarian access to much of the jebel mara region remains blocked. we welcome the doha document on peace in darfur as a positive first step towards reaching a comprehensive and inclusive peace settlement, but it needs to be fully implemented. the council of the european union has repeatedly recalled the government of sudan’s obligation to cooperate fully with the international criminal court pursuant to un security council resolution 1593. the situation in sudan and south sudan remains one of great concern. i have made clear that the eu continues to promote all efforts to bring peace and stability to both countries. we remain committed to supporting the emergence of two viable states living in peaceful coexistence.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, apart from the attention that the conflict between sudan and south sudan deserves, my personal interest in finding a solution is explained by the fact that i was one of the signatories of the comprehensive peace agreement concluded in nairobi in 2005, to which i added my signature, on behalf of the european union. the problems we are facing today were known long before south sudan became independent, and even at the time of the signing of the agreement five years ago. so everyone agrees that there is no military solution to this conflict. what's changed is its size. since south sudan's independence, it is no longer an intra-state dispute between two parties within a state, but an international conflict. international law must therefore provide the solutions. in this respect, i would like to pay tribute to the work of the european external action service, which has done all it could, namely to give priority to the search for a solution that respects international law, while at the same time putting all the instruments in its multi-toolbox at the service of the search for a solution to this conflict. after the various attempts at mediation by the african union, after the communiqués of the peace and security council of the african union, after resolution 2046, the points of reference which now mark the road to a political settlement are known. the efforts of african institutions are therefore beginning to show their worth. the european union has supported this capacity for africa to take charge of its own security interests since the early 2010s. the european union remains today an indispensable partner for both countries which have emerged from the separation of sudan. the european union, the leading humanitarian actor, the leading actor in development, the leading actor in political dialogue with the sudanese and south sudanese, holds one of the keys to the solution to the present conflict. one of the keys, but not the only one. in doing so, the union is tackling one of the underlying causes of the more than worrying situation - poverty, extreme poverty - which undermines the foundations of any lasting stability. the south sudanese, together with their partners in the north, are, however, jointly responsible for the outcome of the conflict. they have to live up to their standards. it is not enough to have a state, you must also be able to manage it. the presence of the union is much more than its visibility. there is no solution, i said, no alternative; the only way is to return to the conflict, in which we have allowed - pardon the expression - two million people to die in a period of ten years, in the general indifference.
mr president, the commission proposes to speed up the disbursement of funds to be allocated under macrofinancial assistance to third countries. the obstacles it faces in this area are classic: the tendency to increase the number of precautions and controls makes it difficult to respond quickly enough to the needs of partner countries dependent on macrofinancial assistance. i am not aware of this imperative of caution, but i would point out that aid granted too late can sometimes be as unproductive as no aid at all. while delegated acts, as defined in the framework of article 290 of the lisbon treaty, are not the panacea, this practice has the advantage of being able to reconcile the imperatives of efficiency of the executive with the control needs of the european parliament.
in writing. since 1975, we have had an excellent directive on equal treatment for men and women in matters of pay. it was refounded in 2006. all women, or indeed all those who feel discriminated against, can have recourse to it, but it must be dared to do so. it is not true that no sanctions have been taken against employers who discriminate against women on the basis of the principle of equal work for equal pay. in luxembourg, after 1975, hundreds of millions of luxembourg francs were paid retroactively to women because the state, a public institution or a municipality had not properly applied the 1975 directive. the report estimates that women in the european union as a whole receive on average 16.4% less than men and that the pay gap between women and men varies from 4.4% to 27.6% depending on the member state. what is important is not the average difference, but what women experience in relation to men in the same company, in the same sector if there is a collective agreement, for the same work. we do not need new european legislation. we need to apply the existing one well in the field. we need above all that the social partners who negotiate collective agreements no longer ignore it.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i wanted to start by agreeing with you, mrs de keyser, on your analysis of the situation. i would also like to ask you, since you are the first to express yourself in this way, whether you do not also agree that, in fact, when we recently voted on our assessment of the association agreement with azerbaijan, we put ourselves in a context which largely ignored everything we are discussing today. would it not have been more useful to have stressed from the outset that azerbaijan is not yet a democracy like the others? today, we're probably going to do something that's slightly different from what we just did a month ago.
author. − mr president, as gerald häfner quite rightly said, north korea is of concern to us mostly when the north koreans are experimenting with nuclear weapons or with spacecraft, and all too rarely do we think about the terrible and indeed double predicament of the refugees that have fled this country. their predicament is double because first of all their vulnerability is immense. they normally come from indescribable material conditions and, when they make it to another country – and indeed china is the only option available in most cases – they have probably been in unspeakable distress for a long time. and, should they return or be returned, which is one of the problems that we address in the current resolution, their predicament would even increase, in that north korea treats those that come back in a way that is often unimaginable, just because they previously wanted to flee. these things are addressed in a comprehensive way in this resolution. the resolution is specifically about refugees. we are talking about thousands and thousands of people who have had no other choice but to flee their country because they do not even have anything to eat or to drink where they come from and they are often treated by china, which is the country that hosts most of them, in a way that is not exactly as we would want it to be. this is also an appeal to china, whose help we need, to give these people the help that they require.
mr president, without ignoring the importance of the economic choices we have to make, i should like to make a more political point in this debate. in the last few weeks we have again seen evidence of the double-talk of some of the great european leaders or those who think they are. while everyone is constantly advocating for a coordination of economic, budgetary and fiscal policies that is finally worthy of the name and that this requirement even appears as a sine qua non for the survival of the euro zone, now, once settled at home, these gentlemen think it is clever to criticize the balanced recommendations emanating from the commission, to get rid of certain commitments or, in the worst case, to stir up public opinion against these brussels ukases as they call them. this irresponsible attitude would be laughable if we were not in such a tragic situation. i say to you clearly: our debates on stability, the necessary consolidation of public finances or the efforts to be made in the field of growth are doomed to failure if the errors of the past in public debts and deficits are not stopped and if the governments of the member states continue to be complacent. we're playing with fire right now. european discipline must be applied to all, without exception, including the grand duchy of luxembourg. it takes a minimum of courage and our public opinion is ready for it, even more than some of their leaders want to believe. i would like to say one last thing to mrs goulard, otherwise i will have to show her the blue card: i would say, finally, that in "redemption" there is "redemption".
mr president, who is to blame for the sovereign debt? logically, this is the case for all countries whose debt exceeds 60% of their gdp. anything over 60% is therefore an illicit debt. but markets punish some and reward others. despite the fact that they are above 60%, some pay 5%, others pay 0 or 1%. i am in favour of the mutualisation of the part of the illicit debt. in the field of the environment, the polluter pays principle would be applied. transposing this principle into the field of budgetary policy in the euro area is tantamount to mutualising this part of the debt.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, since the text of this resolution is justified by the 2011 presidential and legislative elections, the draft resolution in question should have been submitted to the plenary the day after the vote. however, despite this delay, the deviations observed in the functioning of the institutions and the electoral process remain relevant and call for our reaction to prevent such a situation from recurring. the first test of credibility in the near future will be the holding of provincial, urban, municipal and local elections, which are staggered on an agenda that extends to 2014. this agenda was defined and confirmed on 6 june 2012. parliament called on the european union to link the financing of future electoral processes to the effective implementation of the recommendations as defined by the eu election observation missions. this requirement should be maintained with all the more firmness as the 2011 elections were far less satisfactory than the previous elections, to say the least. this is deplorable from several points of view, and particularly in view of the real desire of the congolese citizens to become more involved in the democratization of their country. the country is going backwards, but the citizens want to be part of its recovery. if things were to remain as they are, the congo, which had made a promising start in the transition process, would be far behind when it needs a new impetus. many african countries have already shown that democratization can work. the situation in the congo is not a fate of africa, but a refusal or inability to exploit the real assets that this country also has.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions to this discussion. the debate shows that this house attaches a lot of importance to institutional questions. i would like to reassure all members that the commission remains very open to supporting any solution that parliament is able to find with the council to solve the issue of multiannual plans. the longer this deadlock remains, the more difficult it will be to explain to citizens that we cannot move ahead with these important fisheries management tools to ensure the sustainability of stocks.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission has listened carefully to the concerns that many of you have raised concerning a soft landing in a liberalised milk market. there are three main issues that should be addressed. the first relates to a faster liberalisation of the milk sector by means of more flexibility in the quota scheme. the second concerns the territorial balance of milk production after the removal of quotas. the third concerns the current market situation with growing production and falling prices in the european union. on the need for more flexibility in the quotas scheme, the purpose of increasing national quotas by 1% each year and adjusting the milk fat correction factor was precisely to enable farmers to gain experience in adjusting supply to demand. this has indeed been the case, and, for the eu as a whole, milk deliveries in 2011-12 have remained below quota. the conditions for the phasing-out of quotas were decided in 2008, with the objective of allowing sufficient time for operators to adapt. it would make little sense to change the rules now. the commission will present a report to parliament and the council at the end of 2012 on the development of the market situation and the conditions for phasing out quotas. let me turn to the issue of the territorial balance of milk production in the union. as you know, the commission is committed to maintaining milk production in all areas as far as possible. in view of the expiry of milk quotas, measures to support the restructuring of the dairy sector have been included in the list of new challenges and eur 0.7 billion have been earmarked to support the restructuring of the dairy sector. the regional effects on milk production will be analysed in a report due by the end of june 2014. finally, i would like to refer to the current market situation. dairy prices have been particularly high in 2010 and 2011. however, over the past few months, the trend has reversed and prices have dropped. this is not surprising as it coincided with the seasonal peak of eu milk production while other main world suppliers increased their production as well. prices today are lower than they were some months ago, but are still substantially above intervention levels. against this background, it would be inappropriate to describe the current situation as a crisis. besides, the standard safety-net mechanisms, including private storage and public intervention, are open and available to operators who have proposed butter for private storage so far. according to the latest market information available, prices seem to have bottomed out, and some are even trending higher already. we hope that this trend is confirmed in the weeks to come. be assured that the commission is following the market situation carefully, and will not hesitate to take the appropriate measures should these be required, even if this does not appear to be the case at the moment.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i said that i like commissioner dalli and thank him for coming, but i am a little surprised that the commissioner responsible for the common agricultural policy has not made the effort to come and present his views in this debate. i have to say that i do not agree with the commission at all and that it would be illogical to change the rules now. as far as the territorial balance is concerned, it is true that you have made some efforts. but as far as the market situation is concerned, to say that we are not in crisis, to say that there is private storage available is fine, but i still believe that many dairy farmers are having difficulties. we have stressed above all that the political agreement reached in 2008 on the cap health check, which provides for the abolition of the quota system in 2015, had a very bitter aftertaste for many member states, including my own. we have accepted the compromise on condition that measures are taken in good time to allow a smooth transition from the quota system to a liberalized market for production. but the measures taken are not enough for us, because at present quotas are used in some countries but not in others. this means that the competitive environment in the single market is unacceptable, because some producers who exceed their individual quota are penalized and others are not, simply because they live a few kilometres away, separated by a border. mr cioloș must take measures, especially to reduce the tax, in order to gradually and smoothly reduce the unfair competition between european producers. the commission has a monopoly on the provisions. it must act and we demand that it does.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, as the initiator of this debate, i think it was very useful and very good. since i shall not be speaking after the commissioner, i would now like to put a question to mr deß. there's a lot of talk about growth right now. does mr deß think that we can promote growth in europe by slowly but surely murdering milk producers in many regions, including by means of surcharges? we made proposals. i would also like to ask mr deß whether he agrees that mr cioloș should take these proposals into consideration, inter alia with regard to the reduction of surcharges. does he also agree that we should ask mr cioloș to act? he's wasted way too much time already. it has a monopoly on legislative initiatives. let him have them!
the commission has already done so. first of all, i regret that we did not comply with the request to postpone the vote for this july plenary session. in view of the difficulty of this dossier, which involves the specific and technical details already mentioned, it would have been absolutely necessary to give us more time and to wait for the vote. our decisions will have a very real impact on the daily work of many truck drivers. the first concerns who needs a tachograph, which trucks, what distances, exceptions, what exactly is to be checked, driving and rest times, speed, weight, and last but not least how all this data is recorded and checked. so far, so good. i'm going to go. i can fully support that. but i note that we have not dealt with the social aspects in order to avoid social dumping, unfair competition in road traffic and, last but not least, road safety risks. even before the digital tachograph was adopted, lists of tricks for avoiding and manipulating these devices were circulating. competition in road transport is relentless, especially under the strong pressure of third countries. unfortunately, we have reached a point where the winner is not the one who follows the rules, but the one who is most adept at circumventing them. we must therefore deal with these fundamental problems, with the root causes. will the ticket writer help us with that? i hope so.
mr president, in my mother tongue the word 'council' can have two meanings. the first is the concept of 'advice', in the sense common to most of our working languages. then "counsel" can also mean "guess". after the last council, one has to guess what was decided, particularly in view of the 55 billion in the structural funds intended to boost growth. the second question is the scope of the decisions on the european stability mechanism. having heard the interpretations given by the actors in the european council to the conclusions of its last meeting, mr van rompuy, who is unfortunately no longer here, might perhaps have put an end to my questions.
mr president, commissioner, the unease and concern that citizens have expressed in recent times about acta is, in my view, fully justified. in my view, acta is right in identifying the problems, namely counterfeiting of consumer products and infringements of intellectual property rights, but the instruments it proposes are not the right ones. why would you do that? because it is a mistake not to distinguish between consumer goods and cultural goods, and not to distinguish between personal use and use for commercial purposes. because voting against acta means protecting authors and users, because these are not antagonistic groups, and because we must make a more determined bet on innovation to find the answers that guarantee respect for the rights of creators and those of citizens. and that is why our group will vote against this agreement tomorrow. finally, i do not want to leave the floor without once again congratulating the rapporteur, david martin, on his good work and his efforts to bring about a good debate. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i remain convinced that the european union would have been well advised to negotiate an interpretative protocol in response to the questions and concerns raised by the conclusion of acta. i suggested it. no more suites! it would have been a win-win. those who for reasons of legal certainty voted in favour of a common interpretation would have had the advantage of removing the ambiguities blamed by acta's detractors. those who will vote against the agreement, including myself, would have the advantage of being able to start from a clearer point of view in the event of renegotiation. an interpretive protocol would have saved us time in any case. now we have to start from scratch, assuming that we can gather the critical mass for a new start in the fight against counterfeiting. another lesson to be drawn from this episode is that it is now important to involve the european parliament in defining the negotiating mandate for any new international treaty or agreement. this would make it possible to hold our parliament accountable from the outset, since, it should be remembered, it has the last word in such agreements. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr fjellner, the court of justice would have the advantage of verifying the extent to which this agreement is compatible with european law, but there were other questions and other concerns. that is why i asked, in order to remove any ambiguity, to invite the commission to negotiate an interpretative protocol with all the other parties to the agreement, namely the americans, the australians and the south koreans. all this would have enabled us to see more clearly in the interpretation of the concepts covered by this agreement.
mr president, i want to congratulate you for your perseverance and hope that you have not been too hungry during this time.
in writing. before taking a decision on acta, parliament should have waited for the opinion of the european court of justice, referred to it by the commission. i regret that a majority of members did not support this reasonable proposal from my group. i therefore regret that i abstained from voting on this treaty, which i support in principle. a binding agreement between 31 states parties against the illicit production and distribution of copyrighted material or virtual goods would certainly be an essential legal instrument to better protect and enhance our innovative intellectual property companies. i admit that there is a lack of precision in the wording of certain articles, for example in the definition of what constitutes an offence due to an act on a commercial scale or, another example, a deliberate act. the populist arguments about privacy and the disclosure of information, however, only confirm my conviction that they do not know the text of the treaty. in conclusion, this parliament has again missed an opportunity to act as a prudent and reasonable legislator, by giving in to a campaign of misinformation like i have never known in my political career.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that in this pilot phase, environmental criteria are important because we have to stop building infrastructure that takes us further away from climate goals and also from energy goals. a concrete weakness i see is that we have not actually planned large projects with renewable energy sources, for example. the connecting europe facility is also only talking about infrastructure and not renewable energy sources, and it is not clear how this pilot phase will continue later. the danish energy company dong has recently sold a large wind farm to the danish pension fund. this means that there are opportunities to have large renewable energy projects built in the first phase by specialists who can manage risk and then in the second phase to be sold to other investors, creating new opportunities for those who know the business. i hope that in the next budget we in parliament, in the commission, will make provision for funds to be made available from the european budget for this purpose.
mr president, rio+20 was rather disappointing. china, brazil, india, the ones that keep us from going round in circles? it's like being in europe. it would be impolite to want to express indignation as europeans at the lack of results at the end of a conference which lasted only a few days, given the difficulties we face within the european union in finding solutions to our problems as a union of 27 or 17. firstly, the results are not completely nil and secondly, insufficient results should not in any case be used as a pretext for the european union to remain inactive. let us be examples! let's get creative! let us begin by sticking to our commitments on the financing of official development assistance. we're way off the mark! mitigating the effects of climate change on developing countries must be additional money compared to conventional official development assistance. we're light years away from that requirement! let us set ourselves binding targets based on demanding and sustainable development criteria. let us be the model of sustainability that other geographical and economic spaces can take inspiration from. thank you to the commissioner, however, who has the requisite height of vision to help move the lines.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to comment on five points. first, it is obvious from your interventions that this is not an easy compromise, but it is a compromise which has been reached. it is a good, reasonable compromise, one which i believe is really important. that is why i would encourage you to support it by voting for it today. second, the fact is that whatever means of transport you take has an influence on air quality, be it air, land or water. as some of you have mentioned, it is true that travelling by water is many times more environmentally friendly than travelling by land. but if we want this to remain so, we have to adopt the proposal which is on the table today. in terms of today’s proposal, the contribution for the shipping sector, which i believe is a good one, has already been completed for other sectors, so in a way this represents a kind of catching up. i have listened carefully to the others – especially from the transport committee – underlining the necessary transitional measures, because whatever transition you undertake, you will always have something which has a negative influence on others. that is why we believe that we have to help those people, and we foresee with the directive the possibility of complying with the sulphur standards by using alternative abatement methods. the commission presented a number of actions for mitigating undesired impacts, as i mentioned in the staff working document. in the short term it is foreseen to use the existing eu financial instruments and programmes, trans-european transport network and marco polo, and possible national state aid funds to support the deployment of new infrastructure and superstructure in support of green ship technology, lng scrubbers and short-side electricity. the compromise proposal also contains a provision on financial assistance allowing member states to grant state aid that is compatible with the eu rules and guidelines. in the longer term, we are considering green technology and alternative fuels (notably lng), regulatory measures for the safe and secure implementation and use of green technology and alternative fuels, green infrastructure and superstructure, possible economic and funding instruments, public-private partnerships and, of course, as was mentioned, also research and innovation. so all that is foreseen and is important. i also understand some of you who have had mixed feelings from a geographical point of view. to be clear about the commission’s position: we believe that the extension of the sulphur emissions control areas – secas – to other zones in european waters, especially in the mediterranean, would yield promising heath benefits. secas are a cost-effective tool for addressing air pollution. however, any extension of secas would require in particular that the member states themselves introduce such a request to the imo. implementing unilateral eu action in this field could be very complex – irrespective of its legal feasibility – and would definitely require further analysis. i would just like to inform you that, apart from the political and legal considerations, the commission is currently studying the benefits of extending secas to all eu territorial waters. fourthly, as mr groote mentioned, next year our focus will be on air pollution, and we will come with a review of the air policy, including a review of the nec directive. more and more scientific facts clearly show the impact of air pollution on human health, and it is simply impossible to ignore this. my final comment: as one of your colleagues mentioned, coherence between economic activity and the environment is, of course, of fundamental importance. i think that the proposal which is in front of you is the best example of how to approach in this context the idea that prevention is much better than cure. thank you again for your work and support. it was excellent work and i hope it will also have your support.
rapporteur. − mr president, as the rapporteur, i can proudly announce that today this house will discuss, and even more importantly, adopt, by a very large and broad majority, the energy efficiency directive. this was a huge collective effort by us as members of this parliament, and of course by all the staff involved. i am proud that once again it was the directly-elected european parliament, which, after having brought europe on to the right track on the internal market and on renewable energies, has again been the most progressive institution in making this compromise possible at the end of the day. why is this legislation also important for citizens and businesses in europe? this is an anti-economic-crisis and anti-job-crisis directive. our economies in europe are also weak because in 2011 alone we lost the astronomic sum of eur 488 billion in having to buy oil, gas and other energy supplies. this is the single biggest wealth transfer out of the european economy to oligarchs in russia and elsewhere in the world. it is six times bigger than at the beginning of the century and constitutes almost 4% of our gdp. i am proud that with this directive certain oligarchs in the oil and gas market will earn less money. on the other hand, many people will be happy about this directive. firstly, all the people in europe who are complaining about energy costs being too high. we do not control the oil price, but we can help citizens to invest in reducing their energy consumption. with this directive we are creating businesses opportunities, above all for small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector. it is also good news for jobs in europe. what i also want as a priority in transposition is for these investments to be linked to training, especially for young people in europe. it will be so much better, bring so much more hope, if, with this directive, we can deliver not only organisation of energy in the future, but also guarantee the professional future of many young europeans. i have one more minute in which to outline two or three priorities for where we go from now on. first, of course, is financing. it is very important that, in the context of the discussions on the eu budget, we now make energy efficiency a priority for the structural funds; we need project bonds for efficiency; the european investment bank has to step in; and all this requires follow-up action. but there is also the issue of legal implementation. i have three questions on that for the commissioner, whom i want to thank for his personal, positive commitment to making this deal possible. i should also like to thank his staff. commissioner, there will be a need for a lot of implementation notes and guidance. i think we should make the most of the range of stakeholders involved and constitute a forum, as was the case for the legislation on eco-design. within this forum, stakeholders can bring their expertise to the discussions on the details of implementation. second, going back to eco-design, a decision on boilers is pending. maybe in your speech, commissioner, you can give us some details as to where we are now. the last point is something that is very confusing. at this very moment, the commission is forcing the uk government to have vat rates for energy efficiency products that are four times higher than the rates for gas and oil. this is very disturbing and annoying, so commissioner, can you explain to us the rationale behind this push by the commission?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - it hasn't been a minute. i asked you three questions, one on implementation, how stakeholders can be involved, how the boiler decision is ordered, and this very important question on vat in england. this is a complete communication disaster. the commission is rightly being attacked in the british press. we cannot adopt this important efficiency directive in one day, this afternoon, and then have the commission go all out in implementing one of the large member states. how is it that efficiency products have to pay four times more vat than oil and gas? if you would be so kind as to include those three points in your answer.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i would like to make five points on the interesting and constructive debate. firstly, the question has been raised as to why we are legislating at european level in the first place. firstly, we have common climate objectives, and energy efficiency is an important tool for better climate policy. secondly, we have a single market. this is why energy targets at european level make sense. in addition, the 20% increase in energy efficiency is a common objective developed and decided by parliament, the council and the commission. we have not really made any progress since the decision was taken in 2007. in other words, it is necessary to take binding european action now if the goal of greater energy efficiency by 2020 that you have set is to be achieved at all. secondly, the issue of buildings and energy is of crucial importance, both in relation to industrial buildings and to public buildings, infrastructure and private buildings. and that's where we have a problem. if you take a normal building and you renovate it from the roof to the basement in an energy-efficient way - with the most modern materials and windows, with ict, with modern fuel-efficient boilers with the highest energy efficiency - then the investment, the cost, will be reimbursed, at the earliest after 15, doubtless after 25 years, by a decreasing energy bill for heating and electricity. it means it's an investment in the future. now take a mayor. he's running for re-election in two years. why should he invest in renovating kindergartens and schools and the town hall now, and his successor has the benefit of it? he probably wants more visible improvements in the marketplace, the repair of the half-timbered houses and the paving stones, or more staff in the childcare and elderly care. so this is already an altruistic investment for the next generation. that is why i think it is important and necessary that in our budget proposal, which you are debating in these weeks, we allocate billions of euros each year for co-financing in our european structural programmes for the financial years 2014 to 2020, and that we attach a very high priority to energy efficiency in our member states and in our regions and municipalities which are requesting the funds. i believe that a golden rule, an incentive in the best sense, must be given priority here, to reduce national and local budgets more on energy efficiency in existing buildings. thirdly, mr turmes, we shall be submitting a binding proposal on boilers in a few weeks' time. the final hearing was a few days ago. i am also ready for bilateral talks, but we will discuss our proposal in the commission during the autumn and then come to a decision before the end of the year. fourthly, the question of vat is of course a sensitive one. i agree with you that it would be desirable if a reduced tax would create an incentive for energy-efficient appliances and the purchase of such appliances. however, this is not a matter of policy but of interpretation of the law in force. i am therefore going to look into the matter again, but a request i made a few days ago showed that the commission has no discretion, and that the only way to meet the objective pursued by the government in london is to amend and extend the catalogue of the reduced rate of taxation on these appliances and their purchase. i am happy to provide you, mr turmes, with further proof in the next few days in a letter that there is no margin of discretion and why this is so. if it existed, we would use it. if it doesn't exist, we can't use it. the only option then remains is to amend the relevant european legislation. the last point: the ets issue raised by mr liese and others. when the ets system was introduced - you were there, i wasn't there - there were certain expectations: so the expectation of creating a market-based incentive for co2 emissions reductions. the commission is also expected to encourage investment in the energy sector, industry and the private sector to prevent co2 emissions from these new technologies. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the economic situation of the regions concerned, the extent to which the community's financial resources are being used to finance the various measures to be taken in the member states. in the long term, ets revenues averaged eur 16, 17, 18 between 2006 and 2011, peaked at eur 30 and currently range between eur 6 and eur 8,50. 6 to 8.50 euros is not a price signal. this means that there are no real incentives for investments to reduce and avoid co2 emissions. now, we as the commission made a proposal in july and decided that we would allocate certain co2 emissions that are allocated annually on the way to 2020 later, that is, not next year and not the year after, but at the end of the decade, in order to achieve a certain change in supply and demand and thus also to send a price signal. counterargument 1: the whole thing violates planning security, it would be contrary to the protection of the trust of all the actors. counterargument 2: even at a price of eur 6, the 20% emission reduction target will be reached by 2020. this means that even without changing our existing ets system, the quantities provided at any price are sufficient to achieve the 20% emission reduction. we must decide now in the autumn - mrs hedegaard is in charge - what quantities we should not put on the market in 2013 or 2014, that is, what quantities we should withhold. but the real question is not whether certain quantities of co2 emissions should be marketed later, as our present proposal provides for under the existing legislation, but whether there should be no market at all in the period up to 2020, which means that there should be a shortage of allowances in general and not just a delay in market access. the question will be discussed in the commission and with you in the autumn. this is our own internal eu problem. but let's not kid ourselves. we also have an external problem. when the ets was created as a market economy instrument to reduce co2 emissions in europe, we also had an external expectation. we, the european union, are acting as a pioneer, and partners in other regions of the world are following. so far, mostly false positives. australia follows, but with as little volume as possible. do you follow the election campaign in the united states, in washington, as i do? the issue of co2 and climate change is not a factor in the american election campaign. so we have to assume that, no matter who wins the election, there will not be a majority in the next congress for binding co2 reduction targets, for binding global climate change. i have no hope. china the same case. russia the same case. india is the same. the problem is that we, the european union, with 500 million people, are still responsible for 11% of the world's co2 emissions. because we have no partners, the question of what we do next has to be not just internally, but externally, and it has to be about how do we get others on board. so much for the main issues. i believe that europe is taking an innovative and yet pragmatic path with the legislation now in place, which ultimately benefits our citizens, does not harm the economy and which can certainly be controlled by us and implemented by the member states without much bureaucracy. we are happy to report - whenever you wish, but no later than in two years - in a progress report on whether member states have kept their word on implementation and how we are progressing. we may reserve a binding general objective for the duration of the barroso ii commission, which was mentioned by mr reul and was generally considered a priority in parliament but was not to be enforced in the council.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. perhaps a word on the directive itself and on the architecture. what we have achieved here is that in march 2007, with the help of chancellor merkel, a political target was set: europe is going to achieve 20% more energy efficiency, in renewable energy and in the climate. renewable energy and climate then got laws, became binding. what we are doing here is actually translating mrs merkel's promise into concrete legislation and creating a new architecture for energy efficiency in europe, with a maximum primary energy consumption in europe in 2020 of 1,474 million tonnes of oil equivalent. member states must send national efficiency targets to brussels as early as april 2013. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for making it clear today that if member states do not submit national efficiency targets, the debate on binding targets will be reopened. i would also like to thank you for your willingness to discuss this british vat issue again, so that we are not misrepresented in england. what i have now lacked is the implementation, and the question of how you organise yourselves in the commission. experience shows that, apart from denmark, belgium and ireland, a little bit of poland, a little bit of italy and then the new french government have always negotiated the others down. and if they go now and discuss the whole guidance with the member states alone, without the stakeholders, then there is a risk that the whole thing will be watered down. i think the ecodesign forum is the right place for stakeholders and member states to come together at certain moments, just to discuss facts and ask the question: what's going on here? it is clear that the decisions are decisions agreed between the commission and the member states at a later stage. but we should create a forum like this. i would like to thank you again for mentioning the structural funds. i'm going to bridge the gap to ets. the structural funds will cost if this is then passed 20 billion by 2020. if we get the ets back on track, we are discussing revenues for the member states in the order of 120 to 200 billion euros. this means that the question of how we reinvest in europe has something to do with getting this ets market back on track. it is also important for the big energy companies and the industrial capitalists. how are they supposed to develop a vision? how are they going to develop an investment strategy when ets prices are falling like this? and maybe one last word: last week, something happened that almost knocked me over. last week i was informed that the german ministry of economic affairs had tried to water down or weaken two essential definitions in the german translation. i have to tell you, as a parliamentarian negotiating an english text, i find it institutionally impossible if i can no longer be sure that after the negotiations are concluded, governments will go in and put extreme pressure on the translators. i want this to be known outside so it doesn't happen again. it is not possible, and it is not acceptable, that governments should try to get their hands on a negotiated text and then be seen as the bad losers. thank you again for the great work of all of you, and i would also like to mention our itre chairman. it was a good collaboration with the secretariat, with my staff. we've made a little bit of energy history again.
member of the commission. - two instruments play a special role in our internal market packages. firstly, unbundling, as you mentioned, the separation of production and distribution on the one hand and transport on the other. secondly, third party access, i.e. the opening up of existing infrastructure, electricity lines, gas pipelines to different providers. we are making good progress on both measures and packages. we do not see our first task as being to bring the member states to justice. our first task is to advise them, to help them to implement. i can say that the vast majority of member states are working very constructively on implementation and our directorate-general is providing technical support. we're still going to file a lawsuit. we have a number of cases before the courts against different member states. mr almunia is then responsible for market monitoring. you have read in the last few days that a major player in the market is being subjected to an in-depth examination of whether it complies with our rules in the european market or whether its supply contracts are in breach of european law. the last point is interconnectors. we are working closely with entso-e and entso-g. these are the european associations of transmission system operators. and we have concrete plans in the larger regions of europe for how the networks will be developed in the coming years. together with the connecting europe facility and our list of priorities, we believe that in the next 5-10 years, the development of gas and electricity networks will be as europe with motorways and rail networks, a single european airspace or our digital world of communication and information of the internal market is realized through a high-performance infrastructure. we have the same objective for gas and electricity.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, since my colleague mr oettinger has referred to the powers of the proper functioning of the market, through the instruments under my direct responsibility, i would like to repeat here, before all of you in parliament, what has been made public a few days ago in connection with the opening of an investigation into a possible violation of article 102 of the treaty in respect of certain activities of the company gazprom in at least eight member states of the union. if you recall, last year a series of inspections were carried out at plants which were owned by companies which had signed long-term contracts with gazprom, or subsidiaries or related companies of the gazprom group. in the light of the information obtained in these inspections, and also following the receipt of a complaint from a member state, the commission, through the directorate-general for competition, has rigorously analysed this whole matter and has concluded that there are serious doubts about possible infringements by gazprom in the territory of our internal market in relation to three aspects, which relate to several of the issues which you have dealt with in the previous questions and in the previous debate. firstly, we believe that there are serious doubts about a possible infringement concerning the fracturing of the market, the fragmentation of the market, with bans subscribed to or included in agreements concluded by gazprom in the territory of the european union or with agents operating within the territory of the european union; market fragmentation consisting in the prohibition of exports of gas received from gazprom to other member states of the european union. it is a very clear fragmentation of the internal market. second objection: price indexation included in long-term gas supply agreements or similar clauses with similar effect. we believe that the conditions that existed in the gas market several decades ago have changed substantially and are changing rapidly, firstly, because of the existence of a spot market for natural gas and also because of the changing conditions in the global market for fracking gas and shale gas. this means that the justification for price indexation in longterm contracts is no longer the same as in the past and does not, according to our analysis, respond to the fundamentals of the market, to the interplay between supply and demand that must exist in a market and that we want to exist in our internal market. and thirdly, we believe that some of the clauses or conditions in these long-term contracts create barriers to the entry of potential competitors and restrict competition, in particular through, for example, conditions relating to gas delivery points which are mandatory for those who sign a supply contract. all of this is what our opinions are based on. of course, what we've done is open the investigation. gazprom has been notified; questionnaires have been sent and are being sent to collect information not only from gazprom and its partners here in europe, but also from all wholesalers on the gas market or wholesale gas market stakeholders who can help to ensure that the competition rules of article 102 of our treaty are fully respected. as you know, the commission's responsibility in competition policy is to apply and enforce the treaties, in particular articles 101 and 102, regardless of the ownership, nationality or seat of the undertakings operating on our market. we don't care about the nationality of the company. we don't even care about the shareholding of the company in the sense of who owns or the shareholders of that company, private or public. we are concerned about the impact of a company's activities on the internal market and that is why we have opened this inquiry, as we have opened so many others in the energy, electricity, gas and many other sectors. i think it was important to take this opportunity to inform the honourable members, because on the other hand there have been some statements which try to divert attention from what is our sole objective in opening antitrust investigations: protecting the proper functioning of the market. and in the energy field, it is particularly important for all our citizens.
madam president, i have one question for mr almunia. i would firstly like to congratulate you on your actions against gazprom. we cannot accept what they are doing and i think we should also largely ignore mr putin’s recent declaration. we have an internal market and they will have to abide by the rules. basically, power exchanges fix prices. in germany there are some discussions and some studies that show the following. the prices on the power exchange in leipzig have gone down over the last two or three years but the contracts, and the reduced costs for the companies and traders buying electricity on the power exchange, have not meant that these benefits have been passed on, particularly to smaller consumers. at the same time, when e.on and rwe presented their balance sheets this year we – and the media – discovered huge profits. last year alone there were profits of eur 3 billion plus. some would argue that there is a strong connection between not passing on reduced prices on the leipzig power exchange and the big benefits for larger – and perhaps also some smaller – companies. are you following this situation, and what can you do to ensure that smaller consumers also get the benefit of reduced prices on the power exchanges? otherwise people will lose trust in the pricing.
in writing. i did not vote for the turmes report because the compromise reached between the council and the rapporteur was made in defiance of the democratic rules which are to govern the european parliament. the rapporteur and a few other draftsmen of opinions have negotiated a compromise which is far from the rapporteur's initial ambitions, based solely on the vote in the itre committee. but above all, neither individual members nor the plenary were able to exercise their right to amend to improve the directive. the plenary had no choice but to say yes or no to a motion for a resolution which had been blocked. i say no, especially as i believe that the directive could have been improved if the rapporteur had not chosen to negotiate behind closed doors and in total opacity.
in writing. the commission's proposal on the single payment scheme and support for wine growers aims to ensure that member states decide once and for all, before the end of the current year, whether they prefer to use their allocations for the wine sector in the form of five-year support programmes or transfer them to the single payment scheme. however, it would be dangerous to include the wine sector allocations in the single payment scheme for several reasons. the specificity of viticulture will be better diluted in the single cmo. depending on the final form of the direct payment scheme currently under review, greening could also apply to permanent crops such as vines. direct payments would be paid into the water and not targeted as programmes set up by member states. however, i welcome the suggestion that the existing five-year measure be converted to a one-year measure, applicable for 2014 only. the decision to exclude wine-growing areas from direct payments and to opt for support programmes should therefore be taken by the member states in 2013. i highly recommend it.
in writing. a majority of the femm committee has a gift for inventing subjects for own-initiative reports, whose creativity never ceases to amaze me. the fact that we have produced a report on the role of women in the green economy is not discriminatory, unless we produce a similar report on men immediately. i admire the breadth of established knowledge, for example that women consume less than men, regardless of their socioeconomic status, when women are said to be behind 80% of the purchasing decisions in the world. women do not have the same opportunities to access transport, but not in the eu. to enable women to participate in the green economy, their sexual and reproductive rights must be guaranteed. i also didn't know that men had easier access to agricultural technology to access jobs in the green economy. this report calls for a whole series of studies, statistics, programmes and new indicators from the commission and the member states, taking account of climate change, biodiversity, etc. in the absence of any financial impact from all these requests, i did not vote for this report, because it seeks to convert society into a utopian, unpayable green economy model whose consequences for growth and employment are ignored.
in writing. it is useful to look at working conditions in the services, but why only those of women? the majority of the committee responsible has a regrettable tendency to treat women's problems in conjunction with those of the handicapped, the elderly, minorities and the unusual. women are full citizens. we must stop this counterproductive categorisation. i did not vote for this report because i refuse to be associated with this amalgam of gratuitous assertions and demands which are contrary to the facts and harmful to women. i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept this amendment. women and men in the public sector are better paid and better protected than in the private sector. the list of abnormal requests is given in article 43. the reform of the directive on maternity protection is blocked in the council because the text voted here with a barrage of exaggerated and heterogeneous demands is unsuitable for any serious discussion. the existing directive could have been improved two years ago if we had followed the commission's reasonable proposals instead of over-bid and populism.
the decision to confer central supervisory competence on the european central bank is made necessary by the fact that it is now necessary to move from a still largely national approach to supervision to a fully european approach. and it is precisely this fundamental choice of the european council that implies the conferral of new responsibilities on the european central bank - an institution which, in addition to being fully federal and integrated, has also demonstrated its know-how since the beginning of the eurozone crisis. i think it is essential that this choice should not be called into question in the legislative process which is now beginning. i am not advocating a model where supervision is completely outside the national and local authorities, but on the contrary, the allocation of powers must be objective and gradual in order to reconcile the overall picture and the control as close as possible to reality. it will also be necessary to ensure that public institutions, whether national or european, are not placed in competition with each other. i understand that the eba retains functions which are not negligible, but it is clear to me that the european central bank is called upon to play a decisive role, and not the other way around. and the work that is being done should not be used to reopen debates that have already been decided. the more complex and fragmented the supervisory architecture in europe, the less robust the european banking landscape will be.
the rapporteur and author. - mr president, why does the european union's development policy need to change? it can't stay the same because the world has changed. today, seven out of ten of the world's poor live not in the least developed or developing countries, but in the emerging countries. it is true that globalisation creates enormous wealth, but not all of it goes to the poorest. and then there is the rapidly growing population. today, there are seven billion mouths to feed. we'll be nine billion in 20 years. the economic growth rate of a country becomes real only when it exceeds the birth rate. in the 21st century, the european union's weight in the world will be steadily decreasing, in what some call strategic decline, unlike the emerging countries, which, with their economic growth, have already become uncomplicated political actors. the european union is by far the world's leading provider of official development assistance. it wants to remain not only the first, but also the best player in this field. the committee on development and cooperation is proposing that this should continue to be the case in the future. the european union's development policy serves the noblest of purposes, namely to promote human dignity by eradicating poverty, no more and no less. official development aid must be designed to meet the needs of our southern partners, respecting their choice. development policy must be at the service of the poor, without any ulterior motive and in the spirit of the european development consensus, as provided for in the agreement signed by the council, the commission and parliament. we propose that lady ashton also sign the document in question so that there is no doubt about the intentions of all the european institutional actors in development. we call on all, private actors, rich and poor states, multilateral actors, to assume their development responsibilities. we therefore support the european commission's desire to differentiate its aid and to remove emerging countries from the list of beneficiaries, whose economies are increasingly producing resources. the fight against poverty in these countries should no longer be a matter of international solidarity but of their internal policies. our committee would like this to be done in the context of a dialogue with these countries and by means of a gradual withdrawal of european union assistance to these countries. commissioner piebalgs is in favour of inclusive growth in developing countries. we support this approach. it is important to emphasize, however, that growth in the developing countries, like in our own country, must be promoted, and that the real improvement of the lot of the poorest must be given priority. this will have to be taken into account in aid programming. we therefore believe that it will be essential to allocate at least 20% of the european union's aid to basic social services as defined by the united nations in the millennium development goals. the policy of the european union must be consistent. coherence means getting departments other than development departments to abandon any approach which could destroy, by their action, what has been built in development cooperation. our 27 member states must be aware of this and act accordingly, so that together with the commission and the external action service, they can meet the need for coordination as laid down in the lisbon treaty. our rapporteur believes that the dialogue between the 28 is far from satisfactory, both in terms of ministerial participation in council meetings and the extremely limited time devoted to it. i therefore believe that it is essential to make our decision-making process precede the organisation of an intellectual consensus on the major strategic political issues that condition the european union's development policy. indeed, an independent think tank at european level with real added value, real added value in relation to the existing national bodies, could better guide us in responding to the great challenges of development. i am pleased to inform you that the positions are very detailed and you will find them in the written version of my report. we know that the subject of development is not sufficiently present in the public debate. in order to remedy this, and this is the reason for the oral question i added to my request for this report, we invite parliament to vote in favour of our proposal to make 2015 the european year for development. this approach is supported by my friend thijs berman, my colleague boulland and eva joly. why responsible development? because the millennium development goals will never be achieved if the middle-income countries, where seven out of ten poor people live, do not take their responsibilities. responsible development because the need for policy coherence is also leading us, at the level of the european union, to rethink certain methods. if we are to continue to do so in 2015, 2015 no longer seems premature to me.
member of the commission. − mr president, there have been a lot of interesting points. i would like very rapidly to go through the main points and main answers. to mr kaczmarek: i believe that what we are trying to do is to make aid a catalyst to achieve the results, plus with pcd – policy coherence for development – where we could achieve definitely even more and stronger change. i would definitely say that our phare initiative is transparency in extractive industries, as was proposed by my colleague mr barnier. if we capitalise, we really can make a substantial change. i would very much like to thank him for his support for the agenda for change. to mr cortés lastra: we have discussed differentiation for a long time. differentiation is not an ambition per se. differentiation is just the realities of what is happening in the world. but we are keeping new instruments, like cooperation instruments, that we will continue to use with our partner countries. in a lot of countries, we should continue the poverty eradication strategy because the economic level and size of the countries definitely require other forms of cooperation. to mrs sargentini: we are investing and changing our approach during this period’s financial framework, according to the agenda for change. to mr younous: africa is our absolute priority, because africa is make or break. it could be a continent of prosperity and it could be a continent of complete disaster. so i believe that our engagement with africa is crucial, because no-one else will support the african nations in their quest for prosperity. in my contacts with african countries i believe that they are very much looking to europe, not only for money but also very much for encouragement and their development. if we can capitalise on that, i believe africa would be the driver of world growth, not the continent where there is currently the most insecurity. regarding what mr mitchell said, we also work with the private sector and others, because this also strengthens the human rights agenda. if you just speak about the human rights agenda without addressing small and medium-sized enterprises and property rights, it is always vulnerable, but if you have a broader discussion, then this helps. also in regard to what he said about the gendercide issue, we have worked on this and we should continue to do so because it is clearly a human rights agenda but it really needs a push. mr mitchell’s idea about the european parliament and national parliaments is very interesting and we should reflect on this. i started by being too shy with national parliaments. i came to national parliaments to speak with them as if starting from scratch and discovered with pleasure that they are actually much more engaged than we usually suspect, because these are some of the policies that everybody wants. what type of world will we be living in? i think that is why i believe the debate is essential. it is not just a question of how much money we have to give. it is actually concerns the world we are living in now and the world we would like to live in in 15 or 20 years, and the debate is very much alive. to ms striffler: agriculture, food security and nutrition will remain our priority area, and there we have a new initiative. we have put in place for the first time a nutrition obligation to reduce the number of children left stunted by seven million by 2025. for me, if there is a poverty phase – and actually this phase is a post-2015 development agenda – it is a malnourished child, because it is a shame that it has happened and we know how difficult it is to achieve. as long as there is one child in such a situation, we will not have done our duty. i believe it is very crucial that we focus on this. regarding mr fisas ayxela and differentiation, it is true that there will be pockets of poverty in china, but i believe that if we have a definite global framework and china does what it is committing itself to – fighting poverty – then i believe that they are capable of eradicating poverty. i believe this 2015 framework should be overarching, and if a country puts in a lot of effort inside the country, we should recognise that effort. but it is not for us to put in small things here and there to address some particular aspects. it is not sufficient, and i believe the agenda should be broader. to ms costello, on middle-income countries: we need criteria. we should be objective. mr goerens himself started this process – and i fully agree – when we discussed the very difficult banana-accompanying measures. it was then that we started to ask what the criteria are that we are addressing, and for the first time it was very clear that parliament now has criteria. if i come to the middle-income countries with a fair attitude, i need to base myself on criteria. is the gdp good enough or not? well, this is under debate, but i think we are achieving a consistent approach. on ms ojuland’s point, the eeas and the commission are working well together. i would really say that we have definitely a much better situation than louis michel had with his colleagues and others. we are very coherent in our approach. we are improving on it and they are working very much on strategy. turning to mr ferreira, commitments need to be fulfilled, and i think the most important commitment we have made is that of 0.7 % of gni for development causes in 2015. i believe the push from this house is crucial, especially when we come now to the multiannual financial framework. the part which we have put in the eu budget is exactly that part of our commitment of 0.7 %. it is not different, it is part of it and it is a crucial part that should be continued. i would finish with mr kelly, on the nobel peace prize. i think that this prize is very much justified. i am latvian, and i think the eu has given us a lot of encouragement. if my country is in a situation of security, peace and relative prosperity, a lot of that is definitely due to the eu being there. it has made changes that would be impossible any other way. i believe the eu experience is definitely something that we need to promote in a lot of regions, and particularly in africa where all the countries are rather small. even south africa, which is the biggest country of all, is actually small. so the only way africa can evolve is by working together and for this the eu gives a good example and encouragement. to mr brons i would say that we do not necessarily support countries. while we try to work through countries to strength things, we support people, and this should not be misunderstood. we know that the most sustainable way of addressing poverty is by supporting governments of countries with a credible strategy. but our support is always to the people of those countries, and sometimes we make this distinction. as regards differentiation of acp countries, we have the cotonou agreement until 2020. we will be responsible towards that agreement. we have a dialogue, in particular, with acp countries and we respond to requests from our acp partner countries. we do not make unilateral moves that change the nature of the relationship. at the same time, we should also in this house encourage discussion on what should come after the cotonou agreement and on what comes after 2020.
the rapporteur. - mr president, after the honours which have just been conferred on me, i shall try to remain modest. i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues for their assessment of the work we have done in committee. i know that not everything has been accepted without nuance, in particular the concept of differentiation in all the languages of the union and in all its aspects. of course, there are pockets of poverty in emerging countries -- they are even considerable. there are also 112 million poor people in europe. this is no reason to ignore the poverty in the emerging countries and in europe. let us stop pitting the poor of our own country against the poor of other countries. there are different instruments depending on the country where these poor people live. our policy of cooperation must not be angelic or frivolous. it must be courageous, consistent, selective and lasting. this is the synthesis i draw from the work we have just done. i leave this debate with questions and also with reasons for satisfaction. one of the questions is whether we will reach 0.7% of gnp in 2015. times are tough. so let us not let our guard down in the effort ahead. if we do not do it as development leaders, no one will do it for us. how can we also inform our citizens better? this subject is also a source of satisfaction for me. my satisfaction is that with the answers given by commissioner piebalgs, 2015 seems to be almost accepted as the european year of responsible development. another reason for satisfaction is that if this idea makes its way - and i have no doubt about it for a moment - we will be able to declare in 2015 what we consider to be essential in terms of development cooperation policy, which should be the best partnerships. we still have a little time to weigh in. while the rest of the world is changing at an extraordinary speed, europe still weighs in as the leading player. one of the greatest reasons for my satisfaction is that we have, on the one hand, a great deal of know-how. let us also try to share this know-how with others, especially our fellow citizens and also the rest of the world. i have visited so many developing countries where europe is by far the largest donor and where the perception of the european union as an actor is inversely proportional to the effort and the funds committed. i believe 2015 will be a good opportunity to end this unenviable modesty.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mobility is one of the cornerstones of our modern society. this has led to a steady increase in passengers in all modes of transport in recent years. the commission recognized the need for uniform rights for travellers ten years ago. in the meantime, six regulations have been adopted on this subject. however, experience gained in recent years has shown that the existing regulations are not always clear and have gaps, leading to incomplete or irregular application by companies and often to litigation. as rapporteur, i welcome the commission's aim of adapting legislation and improving its application to all modes of transport, of strengthening its enforcement by national enforcement bodies and of providing travellers with better information on their rights. at the present time, a common regulation for all modes of transport is not feasible due to the lack of experience in shipping and bus transport. i think that in the medium term this is desirable, particularly in order to promote intermodality and to prevent unfair competition in the travel sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. a certain degree of flexibility and proportionality must be ensured depending on the mode of transport. i call on the commission to work on guidelines today to ensure that existing rights freedom from discrimination, right to fulfilment of the transport contract, accurate, complete and generally available information, prompt and appropriate assistance in case of problems are not weakened. i should like to make a few brief comments on the main points of the report. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. i also call for more trained staff to be available at information points and help desks to help travellers. i think that we need to have clear rules on fares to prevent any unfair commercial practices. the role of national enforcement authorities is crucial in the application and enforcement of rights. i therefore believe that a european database and a network at european level should make their work more efficient. the creation of a central electronic complaint centre, a clearing house, would be essential. the main problems are related to liability issues and the concept of 'extraordinary circumstances'. the relevant judgments of the ecj should be taken into account and the rules should be clearly formulated. a very important point is the special needs of disabled people and people with reduced mobility. these must be taken into account, as i have said, particularly in intermodal travel. the economic crisis has also led to an increase in airline insolvencies. we are asking the commission to come forward with concrete proposals for solutions. in conclusion, i would like to point out the increase in intermodality. i believe that, as i have said, a common set of basic rights for all modes of transport and a common approach for all companies and enforcement authorities are the prerequisites for intermodal travel to work well. in conclusion, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and colleagues for their contributions. they have supported me with their ideas and helped to give substance to the report.
the committee on development and cooperation has tabled a number of amendments. - mr president, the malthusian approach, according to which we can only live in prosperity if others live in poverty, has had its day. the current impasse puts us at real risk in terms of commitment to official development assistance for the european union as a whole. our committee on development is very much aware of this and calls on the governments of our member states to oppose firmly the use of official development assistance as an adjustment variable in these difficult budgetary times. this would certainly undermine the european union's capacity as a strategic actor in cooperation and humanitarian action, areas in which it is undoubtedly the leading and by far the most effective player in the world. this would make our partners doubt the reliability of the european union as an anchor point for those who cannot yet manage on their own. yesterday we had the opportunity to set out our ambitions in the context of the discussion on the agenda for change. today, the first test of consistency: we can make our impact statements stick by not letting our guard down any longer in the face of the challenges that lie ahead of us in this decade.
in writing. out of 754 meps, 325 voted against mr mersch, candidate for the executive board of the european central bank. 300 deputies voted in favour. as only 674 deputies participated in the vote, there was no qualified majority against yves mersch. this fact gives even less weight to the vote of the european parliament, which, according to the treaty, only gives an opinion. the ecb is the central bank of the euro area, which includes 17 countries, represented in parliament by 481 members, while 273 members come from countries outside the euro area. the latter also took part in the vote, which in fact concerned only the euro area. among these 273 meps there are many anti-europeanists who voted against mr mersch, a scapegoat not only for pseudo-feminists but also for the enemies of europe and especially the euro. in the face of a unanimous proposal by the finance ministers and a positive opinion by the governing council of the ecb, this minimalist opinion of the european parliament has little weight. the european council must overlook this and appoint mr yves mersch swiftly to the vacancy on the ecb's executive board which has been vacant since last may.
in writing. it would have been possible to reconcile the appointment of yves mersch with respect for the principle of non-discrimination against women. if this has not happened, it is because of the disappointing attitude of the president of the european council in his two statements on this matter. we were right to expect a certain amount of pragmatism from him. i would like to refer to my proposal of 13.09.2012, published in "le jeudi", inviting the competent authorities to go beyond the six members of the executive board of the ecb and to consider the economic, financial and monetary cluster of the eu as a whole. the way out from above had become a real prospect. it would have been enough to have a commitment at the european council level to give priority to the appointment of women to high positions of responsibility in the very near future. with this compromise, no one would have lost face and this in compliance with the non-discriminatory provisions of the treaty.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i have 120 seconds to express my group's agreement with the compromise reached. the proposed legislation will firstly bring more transparency and give the european and national regulators more scope to intervene in order to prevent abusive and harmful speculation. the interests of consumers will be better protected. the keyword will be full transparency on prices and commissions. through subsidiarity, the states will have several additional options, including the prohibition of retrocessions. a review clause will oblige the commission to monitor developments and possibly propose corrections. our proposals will help to create serious barriers to speculation on the markets for raw materials, and in particular agricultural products. participants in these markets will be required to publish their commitments and limits will be imposed on the positions that a player or group of players may hold. one key element is the regulation of high frequency trading. where is the discovery of price that is so essential in markets when computers are dealing with other computers in milliseconds, microseconds and, in the future, nanoseconds? speed does not equal more cash, commissioner. in fact, high frequency trading does not bring any liquidity to the market. 80% of orders exist for only a few milliseconds. while hft accounts for up to 80% of orders issued in some markets, the daily balance sheets of the major exchanges show that the share of executed orders is only 20 to 25% of total stock exchange transactions. the introduction of curbs on this increasingly elusive speculation will help long-term investors and penalize the day-to-day bounty hunters. financial markets are necessary but must serve the real economy.
mr president, i believe that the debate and the vote on these two reports by mr ferber have once again demonstrated the urgent need to submit legislative provisions systematically to a debate in plenary. the ferber report was unanimously adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it was therefore tempting to negotiate it directly with the council in a trilogue. this would have deprived most members of their democratic right to amend the text. there has been a debate in plenary and now the rapporteur and his fictitious rapporteurs can negotiate with the council and the commission with the support of a very large majority in parliament. it strengthens the position of the rapporteur and is much more democratic. this should be the rule for all legislative proposals. (applause) i would like to thank
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, does mrs matias know that in canada, between 80 and 90% of the water has been recycled at new shale gas exploitation sites? does she know that in ukraine, a hydraulic fracturing technology has been developed that no longer requires the use of chemical additives? does she believe that there is no possible development of the technologies which have been applied in the united states?
question for the commissioner: the commission is not why is this exhibition so unacceptable? first, it was allegedly organized by the citizens initiative for responsible energy. we did some digging. it is the work of three polish energy companies, such as pgnig and others. that is, it is misleading; citizens are being pushed forward to hide economic interests behind it. secondly, this organisation is not on the european union's transparency register. we have to learn... (interruption of the debate) my question to mr seeber: do you not think that we should only approve exhibitions here in parliament by someone who is at least fair enough to say who is funding him and who is at least listed in the european union's transparency register, which we have passed by a large majority in this parliament?
mr president, this debate is a perfect illustration of the intellectual blockages that dominate europe. as soon as a new technology is developed, whether it be biotechnology, nanotechnology or now unconventional energy, europeans are torn about the possible risks posed by these technologies, while the rest of the world seizes the new opportunities they offer. the greens are against shale gas. it's their right. but they have no right to forbid others to advocate for this energy, even through an exhibition like the one the green censors want to forbid. when you advocate for shale gas, you're called an industrial lobbyist. on the other hand, the solar and wind power industry is not a lobbyist, and it is not the industry that is asking for new subsidies. shale gas will be exploited not only in the united states and canada but also in australia, china and various third world countries. according to the international energy agency, shale gas will become a key component of the global energy mix. its exploitation will continue, with or without europe. i hope that europe will not cut off from this indispensable source of energy.
mr president, it is heartbreaking for me to witness the gradual and almost inexorable closure of the steel production site in my home town of schifflange, which still employs some 70 people at the moment, whereas in the early 1980s 3,000 workers were living on the site. it's a piece of history and memory that is going away and i'm in a very good position to share the sadness but also the anger of thousands of people, here and elsewhere. i will not, however, share the antidote of the evil capitalists who close the factories to feed already overweight shareholders. the exceptional economic crisis, the fall in demand, overcapacity in production, but also the european regulatory frenzy undermining our competitiveness are unavoidable facts and i will not make a bad case against economic decision-makers. i am aware, however, of the devastating effects of the closure of steelworks, both in terms of jobs and european industrial know-how. it is time to react, not by making unrealistic promises, but by embarking on a european industrial policy worthy of the name. we europeans have strategic interests to defend and the steel industry is certainly an industrial element of these. industrial policy certainly does not mean protectionism or closing of frontiers, but europe must not be a strainer by being a market open to all winds. our key partners are showing us the way. in the steel industry, we as the european union must move towards the definition of minimum standards so as not to exsanguinate an industry which will one day be able to start again when the economic situation improves. there's something irreparable about what's happening today. a european industrial policy could perfectly well remedy this without calling into question the imperative of competitiveness of european industry vis-à-vis other parts of the world. i think you have understood, commissioner, but there is no time to lose.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the resolution on the forthcoming doha conference. this resolution is nothing but a collection of failures and wishful thinking. before the doha conference, any observer knows that there will be no "legally binding global agreement". the european union is virtually the only one still clinging to the kyoto agreement, which is being abandoned by the americans, the canadians, the japanese and the russians, not to mention china, india and other major countries. the house also called for the eu to be seen as a "leading example" in the fight against climate change, and called for the eu to be seen as a "leading example" in the fight against climate change. we're not going to build a better environment by holding onto illusions.
in writing. i have given my unconditional support to the european patent legislative package. after 40 years of fruitless discussions, europe (unfortunately, minus italy and spain) has finally achieved a virtually transcontinental patent, with a more reasonable cost, which is in the interest of research and scientists, but also in the interest of industry and consumers.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, on behalf of the cypriot presidency, i would like to thank parliament for the work it has done and continues to do on taxation of financial transactions and, in particular, for the speed with which it has responded to the council's request for approval of the establishment of enhanced cooperation. i am aware of the genuine interest of parliament in this matter. this was highlighted in a european parliament resolution adopted in march 2010 on financial transaction taxation - implementation, as well as in a similar resolution last year which looked at innovative forms of financing at global and european level. the issue was also discussed in other resolutions in connection with the wider issue of the economic and financial crisis. i would like to express my particular satisfaction with the report by mrs podimatou on the common system of taxation of financial transactions, which was adopted in may, and with the report we are discussing today. i would like to thank parliament for its contribution to the debate on this subject and, in particular, mrs podimatou for her valuable work. the members of this parliament are of course aware that the council also considers the taxation of financial transactions to be a very important issue. before the commission's proposal on taxation of financial transactions was submitted, various alternatives to taxation of the financial sector were discussed at length, both at technical level within the council and at ministerial level within the ecofin council. the european council is also following the matter closely and has given political impetus through its successive conclusions adopted in recent years. last year the commission presented to parliament and the council a proposal for a tax on financial transactions. the polish and danish presidencies have devoted a large part of their work programmes to this subject because of the seriousness of the subject. a number of technical meetings and policy discussions were held within ecofin. the discussions often proved not easy. they have demonstrated the difficulty of balancing different objectives, from the need to ensure the appropriate contribution of the financial sector to fiscal consolidation to the need to maintain an efficient financial sector and to put in place appropriate measures to encourage and stimulate growth. the honourable members understand that the circumstances in the various member states differ considerably and that therefore not all member states were able to support the original proposal which requires unanimous support within the council in order to be adopted. in june and july, the council therefore began to examine the possibility of using the enhanced cooperation procedure, which would allow member states which had expressed strong support for the principle of taxing financial transactions to cooperate with each other. eleven member states have opted to participate in enhanced cooperation at this stage and at least one more is considering it. the commission then submitted a proposal for a council directive authorizing enhanced cooperation. the cyprus presidency has devoted a great deal of time to considering this proposal. this work has led to a formal request from the council, which was submitted last week for the european parliament's assent. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to hear your views on this important subject in this chamber today. these views will be useful to the presidency as the council continues to consider the best way forward.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish firstly to thank the european parliament – and particularly the rapporteur, ms anni podimata – for its excellent work and support on this very important file. as you know, the commission’s proposal for a common system of financial transaction tax is all about fairness and efficiency. it will enable member states to ensure that the financial sector makes a fair contribution to public finances. it will harmonise existing and possible future ftts, avoiding the proliferation of cumbersome national systems which result in the fragmentation of the single market. finally, it will disincentivise transactions that do not enhance financial markets’ efficiency or welfare. in the absence of unanimity in the council on its original proposal, and following a request made by 11 member states, the commission proposed to authorise enhanced cooperation for the implementation of this tax. i am convinced that going ahead with the ftt file through enhanced cooperation is strongly grounded, legally justified within the framework of the treaties, and desirable in the current economic and social context. furthermore, enhanced cooperation will allow for a coordinated and open approach to financial sector taxation which could be expanded beyond the 11 member states that have formally requested it. i can already see that some others are reflecting on joining this group in the future. this constitutes an important and tangible sign that our ultimate goal of a global ftt remains valid. i would like to emphasise that, today, this debate is about granting authorisation for enhanced cooperation. according to the treaty provisions, discussions between the 11 member states on the substantive proposal to be implemented will follow once the authorisation is formalised. as requested by participating member states, it will be based on the scope and objectives of the initial commission proposal of 2011.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is no surprise that the european parliament should give its consent tomorrow to the establishment of enhanced cooperation to introduce a financial transaction tax. a majority of my group will support this approach, and i will support it too, but not without raising questions about fundamental aspects which have not been satisfactorily answered during the procedure. i have therefore always regretted, since the beginning of our legislative work, that the request for authorization was accompanied by at least a preliminary draft text on the substance, to judge by the piece. i am told that the procedure is entirely in line with practice, that form and substance should not be mixed, or that the proposed text will take up the main provisions of the 2011 commission draft directive. all this is true, but i am willing to bet that this strategy of avoidance and a certain lack of transparency will run into a number of difficulties. it should be remembered that taxation matters are extremely sensitive and that decisions must be taken unanimously, even within the circle of member states which have declared themselves ready to introduce the financial transaction tax. why do i tend to dwell on this? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reality of a single market for financial services cannot be dismissed or ignored. everyone will be affected to some degree. i would therefore like to warn those of my colleagues who see in this decision of parliament a memorable victory against the financial sector which is responsible for so many evils: the authorization of enhanced cooperation is by no means an end in itself; it is, on the contrary, a starting point. in conclusion, i would like to say right now - but we shall meet again - that a magic wand is not enough; we must not delude ourselves: we are only at the beginning and not at the end.
president of the commission. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, it was with deep emotion that, on behalf of the european union, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european council and i received the nobel peace prize for 2012 in oslo. the nobel peace prize awarded to the european union is a great honour, both for all european citizens and for all european institutions. it is the recognition of an absolutely unprecedented project which has profoundly transformed europe and through which a centuries-old aspiration has become a daily reality. over the last 60 years, europe has experienced extraordinary moments in its quest for peace and reconciliation, but also for freedom, democracy and human rights. it is no coincidence that the countries which regained their democracy - the countries of southern europe in the 1970s, the countries of central and eastern europe, and the baltic states afterwards - had the intuitive and instinctive impulse to apply for membership of the european union. the european union is not only a place of peace but also of freedom, democracy and justice. today, peace has finally settled in a continent long ravaged by war. the reunification has overcome old divisions. the aspiration of the peoples of europe to their fundamental rights to freedom, dignity and justice has been stronger than oppression and humiliation. it has been achieved in a shared destiny, where diversity and unity are both legitimate and recognised. today, to be european means to be bound by a common adherence to higher values and principles: the dignity of the human person, freedom and justice. it's about rallying to the side of those who are fighting for those universal values that we hold so dear. but we also need political institutions to ensure that these values are preserved and that these commitments are continued. that is what jean monnet said. i quote: "institutions are more enduring than men, and institutions, if they are well built, can accumulate and transmit wisdom to successive generations". the genius of the founding fathers was precisely to build peace and reconciliation on the basis of a dynamic of economic integration, and thus to achieve a political goal through economic instruments: peace! but europe is much more than a market. the market is undoubtedly important in creating interdependence and de facto solidarity, but we need to see europe as a political project and - why not say it - as a cultural project, our european culture, a europe based on our values! the genius of the founding fathers was also to ensure the anchoring of peace in europe by creating supranational institutions, which are the guarantors of the european general interest and the european common good. the commission is one of these institutions. from the very beginning of the creation of the communities, and even before, the economic community had already existed in the form of the high authority for coal and steel to represent, beyond the nations, the common european interest. moreover - and this is important - the genius of the creation of the european union was, alongside the democratic legitimacy of the member states represented in the council, in the european council, to develop a transnational democracy. for the first time in the history of mankind we have a genuine transnational democracy, symbolized by this parliament - the european parliament - directly elected by the citizens of europe. (applause) i would like to thank it is a heritage we should cherish and cultivate. it is a work in progress, requiring constant and careful attention. and at a time when many of our citizens, because of the economic and financial crisis and the very difficult social crisis that we are experiencing in europe, at a time when so many of our citizens have doubts about europe, the message that the nobel committee has sent us was really very powerful. he said, "you've created something valuable. don't mess with it. keep the european union. we need a strong european union in the world.' our predecessors have shown us the way forward. it is now our responsibility to pursue it. more than ever, in this period of crisis and change, we cannot ignore that while war and totalitarianism have withdrawn from what is today the european union, other storms can still arise at any time. the old demons of extreme nationalism, racism and xenophobia are still there in europe. the truth is that freedom, democracy and peace must be a daily achievement. we live in a profoundly changing world, and we must adapt to it while remaining true to our founding ideals. we have to respond to our true economic realities; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if there is one lesson to be learned from this crisis, it is that of our close interdependence. the world of the 21st century calls us to move beyond a purely national vision of democracy and sovereignty. this means that the institutions of the european union, such as this parliament and the european commission, are needed more than ever to defend the general european interest and to develop a more democratic and ever closer union among the peoples of europe. as europe's interdependence grows, the destinies of the nations of the world are themselves becoming more intertwined. as i said in oslo, at this moving ceremony, the federalist and cosmopolitan vision bequeathed to us by the founders of the european union is one of the most important contributions our union can make to a world order in the making. (applause) a globalization that we don't want to be just spectators to, but actually a decisive player in. a world order which we want to help consolidate around the key principles of global responsibility and solidarity. ladies and gentlemen, it is at this time that the european union is faced with one of the greatest challenges it has ever known, and it has been awarded the nobel peace prize. we should see in this a great encouragement for the future. this medal and this diploma are the symbols of that! i am sure we can say that the european parliament and the european commission will rise to the challenge. it is in this eminently european spirit of solidarity and openness to the world that we will continue our efforts for freedom, justice and peace in europe and in the world. (applause) i would like to thank
in response to the question: ‘what does peace in europe mean to me?’ i said that my grandparents would have said a dream, my parents a process, and i can say that it is my everyday reality. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, mr president of the commission, commissioners, honourable members, as many speakers have said during these past few days, one of the biggest achievements of the european project was that it has definitively replaced the fight with bullets by a fight with words. it is very difficult, at this very emotional moment after the nobel prize today, to fight even with words. but we have to continue our work, and i welcome this opportunity to appear before you ahead of tomorrow’s european council. as you know, the main issue for discussion concerns the completion of economic and monetary union. you will all have seen the report published last week by the president of the european council in close collaboration with the presidents of the commission, the eurogroup and the european central bank. this report incorporates valuable input from the commission’s blueprint communication and also draws on the very helpful contribution to the debate from this parliament. on the basis of this report, the european council will determine the next steps required to complete economic and monetary union as part of a comprehensive and staged process. these stages comprise the following elements: the first priority is the completion, strengthening and implementation of the new enhanced economic governance as well as the adoption of the single supervisory mechanism and of the new rules on recovery and resolution and on deposit guarantees. its aim is to ensure fiscal sustainability and finally to break the link between banks and sovereigns. our priorities here are, firstly, to complete the framework for stronger economic governance, including the six-pack, the treaty on stability coordination and governance, and the two-pack. in this respect, the swift adoption of the two-pack is essential. it is a key piece of legislation to ensure deeper budgetary integration, while safeguarding the community method. we know and appreciate the divergences and difficulties. may i, however, call on this parliament to help us reach an agreement on this matter as soon as possible. our aim is to implement this within the framework of the 2015 european semester. but more can, of course, be done, and i am thinking in particular of the idea that all plans for major economic policy reform of the participating member states should be discussed ex ante and, where appropriate, coordinated. it is equally important that we make rapid progress towards a more integrated financial framework during this phase. the most immediate priority must be the adoption of the ssm proposal. i would like to thank the european parliament for the speed with which you have worked on this. i regret that the council has needed rather more time, but i am confident that ecofin will reach agreement on this. they are meeting this afternoon to give a final and, hopefully, successful push. it is equally urgent to achieve rapid adoption of the new rules on capital requirements for banks: crr and crd iv. it is also important that the legislators rapidly agree on the proposals for a recovery and resolution directive and for a deposit guarantee scheme directive. i hope this will done in the course of the next semester. i should also like to recall that we need to agree early next year on the operational framework which will be required to allow the european stability mechanism to recapitalise banks directly once an effective single supervisory mechanism is established. the next step, which covers 2013 and 2014, will complete the integrated financial framework, in particular through the establishment of a single resolution authority and the development of contractual arrangements on those reforms to which member states commit themselves, underpinned by financial support.in a context where bank supervision is moved to a single supervisory mechanism (ssm), it is clear that a single resolution authority will be required. the commission will, in due course, submit a proposal to that end. furthermore, this stage should also see the launch of the idea of ‘contracts’ between member states and the european union institutions. these would cover the measures and reforms they commit to undertake and the means for implementing them. this would be for the euro area member states, but non-euro area member states could also choose to enter into similar arrangements. the third step looks to the longer term, after 2014 and after the european elections, and is concerned with creating a common stabilisation function and further coordination of national economic policies. this implies greater integration and may well require treaty change. in order to improve the resilience of the euro area as a whole, this stage could include a mechanism providing a degree of automatic stabilisation at european level. the economic and monetary union is unique among modern currency unions in that it does not have fiscal capacity. the future fiscal capacity should have as its main function the absorption of large, country-specific macroeconomic shocks. in addition, this phase could also build on an increasing degree of supervision of national budgets and an enhanced coordination of economic policies. further reflection on these longer-term issues will take place after the election of the new european parliament and the appointment of a new commission. throughout the entire process which i have described, we will move forward on the basis of the european union’s institutional and legal framework. we will also ensure that the process will be open to all member states and that the integrity of the single market is preserved. an essential element of this process will be the need to ensure the commensurate development of democratic legitimacy and accountability at the level at which decisions are taken and implemented. any reinforcement of the capacity of economic and monetary union to take executive economic policy decisions would in particular require further reinforcement of the capacity of the european parliament to exercise accountability and oversight. in addition, new mechanisms to increase cooperation between national parliaments and the european parliament could also be an important tool in helping to enhance democratic legitimacy and accountability. i have concentrated my intervention very much on emu, which is the main topic of this week’s european council, but there will be a number of other points covered in the meeting, including the recently-published annual growth survey and progress on the single market act. it will also address the important issue of how to tackle youth unemployment. finally, the european council is expected to take stock on enlargement as well as adopt conclusions on several external relations issues and on csdp. i would be happy to come back to this in my closing remarks in the light of the debate here this morning.
president of the commission. − mr president, when i addressed this house on the state of the union in september, i announced the commission’s intention to present a blueprint this autumn on how to deepen economic and monetary union. on 28 november, the commission delivered on that promise. the blueprint is the sum of the many reflections and discussions throughout the crisis and reflects the many debates which we have had in this house, and for which i am truly thankful. more specifically, let me recall that during our debate in october, when discussing the outcome of the october european council, i presented to you in advance the broad lines of this blueprint: the key principles, the main deliverables in the short and in the longer term, and how we want to strike a balance between responsibility and solidarity. i am sure, by the way, that you have noted the large degree of convergence between this blueprint and parliament’s own resolution of 20 november ‘towards a genuine emu’, based on the report by marianne thyssen. i made it very clear last october that the blueprint is the start of a debate and not its end and, of course, the european parliament must and will be involved and take part in this debate at every stage of the process. one of the reasons why the commission opted for the presentation of the blueprint — and, in so doing, fulfilled its institutional role by exercising its right of initiative — was our desire to create a basis for a more comprehensive process transparently addressing the institutions, the member states and union citizens. therefore, the scope and perspective of this blueprint, whilst contributing to this week’s european council, reach beyond it. the blueprint sets out the commission’s vision and concrete ideas as well as possible legal options towards a genuine economic and monetary union. it maps out the work not only for the weeks and months, but for the years ahead. the blueprint starts with the most pressing tasks that need to be carried out in the very short term to further stabilise the economic and monetary union in general and the euro in particular, and on which all further steps will need to be based. it goes on to sketch out in detail the steps and measures needed for the completion of deep and genuine emu in the medium and longer term. through the blueprint, the commission is also making its contribution to the european council this week. the european council will address these issues on the basis of the report presented by the president of the european council in collaboration with myself and the presidents of the european central bank and the eurogroup. the objective of the commission’s contribution is two-fold: first, we must not lose the sense of urgency as regards action. the situation has improved, but remains fragile. complacency is not an option. the important reforms under way in many member states still have to be carried through. delivery remains to be completed on decisions taken at the level of the european council, for example on a single supervisory mechanism for banks and, following its establishment, the possibility for the esm to directly recapitalise banks. that is why rapid political agreement on the single supervisory mechanism, and its endorsement at this european council, is crucially important. the ssm is the single most important step for the further deepening and completion of economic and monetary union. that is why i want to thank parliament for its timely and constructive cooperation on this important dossier. secondly, we must not lose the overall perspective that lends credibility and purpose to this urgent action: the definition of a roadmap towards emu for the future. it is important — it is, indeed, essential — that the european council gives a clear message that the individual decisions taken so far and still to be taken are embedded in a comprehensive approach that guarantees the irreversibility and the sustainability of the emu and the euro. in order to facilitate agreement on such a roadmap, the blueprint sets out the main guiding principles on which a genuine emu should be built. it is first of all the commission’s view that the deepening of the emu must take place within the institutional and legal framework of the treaties and on the basis of the community method. secondly, we must make sure that discipline and responsibility go hand in hand with solidarity and convergence. we need both. it is not a question of choosing between solidarity and responsibility. both are needed if we want to have a genuine emu. thirdly, the emu in general and the euro area in particular must integrate more quickly and decisively than the eu at large, whilst maintaining the integrity of the european union and its policies conducted ‘at 27’, notably the single market. this means that measures taken for the euro area must acknowledge the specificities of belonging to a single currency. they should, however, be open to the participation of other member states wherever appropriate. particular attention must be paid to convergence between the existing and the future members of the single currency. lastly, creating a deep and genuine emu will require commensurate steps towards a political union. this means that increased democratic accountability must accompany any treaty change conferring further responsibilities on the eu level. as the blueprint states, and i quote: ‘it is the european parliament that primarily needs to ensure democratic accountability for any decisions taken at eu level, in particular by the commission’. whether you look at the proposals which are already on the table, like the ssm and the two-pack, or whether you take the announcements in the blueprint, the commission is and will be applying these principles to the full. this is why the blueprint has chosen the transparent approach and a commitment to present explicit ideas for treaty changes in advance of the next european parliament elections, so as to enable the necessary broad public debate and decisions building on it. i look forward to discussing all of this in more detail with you in the coming weeks and months. the future of the emu is without doubt the most important point on the agenda of this week’s european council. but even such a major challenge does not exhaust the agenda. we must reform our structures and our instruments, certainly, but we must also refine our policies. above all, for reforms to work, they need to be fair and equitable. inequality is not sustainable, and that is why we must also strengthen social cohesion. i made this point in the state of the union speech before this parliament, and it has been at the heart of the commission’s work. let me therefore draw your attention to two initiatives which the commission adopted just last week and which make it crystal clear that the commission regards social justice and fairness in our societies as a key element of today’s policy priorities. firstly, we have presented an action plan to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, accompanied by two recommendations to member states. it is estimated that around one trillion euros a year are lost on tax evasion and avoidance in the european union every year. that is money which ought to be available to put to the public good, but which is simply lost. we could finance a complete seven-year multiannual financial framework if we were able to recoup the amount of money lost through tax evasion and tax fraud. why should citizens and companies who comply with their tax obligations have to pay for the unscrupulous or criminal behaviour of others? how can that be fair? across our single market, loopholes in national systems make tax avoidance easier than it should be. this is why we have put forward ideas against aggressive tax planning to facilitate better co-ordination between member states. and, to take account of the reality of a globalised interconnected world, we have recommended strengthening the european union’s stance on tax havens to go beyond the current international measures. both recommendations will ensure a fairer tax system. the commission will work actively with member states to ensure that they are fully implemented, and i count on the support of this house to maintain the momentum for change. in addition, they also open the way for the adoption of the venture capital and social investment fund proposals, thus helping business, especially small business, to invest, expand and create jobs. last week the commission also adopted a youth employment package. this package is a complement to our existing work on the ground to alleviate youth unemployment. i strongly hope it will play an important role in helping member states tackle youth unemployment by establishing youth guarantees and a quality framework for traineeships. we want to ensure that all young people receive a good-quality offer of employment or continued education, an apprenticeship or a traineeship within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving formal education. while these programmes will basically be under national responsibility the european union would contribute through the targeted use of the european structural funds, and in particular the european social fund. this is a call for all economic actors to mobilise their potential to make sure that the current crisis does not sow the seeds of the next. our generation must not create the vicious spiral of a lost generation. the ideas set out in the youth package build on ideas tested and tried in previous situations of stress at the national level, where they have worked. we owe it to our students, young workers and young families to make a joint effort also on a european scale. of course we know that these measures are specific measures. we know that the real issue of social justice and prosperity can only be resolved by addressing the structural problems in our economies and stabilising the euro area; this is certainly one of the most important issues now, if not the most urgent issue of all. but we also need to take all necessary measures to instil renewed confidence in the european union’s economy, because without confidence there is no investment, and without investment there are no possibilities for growth. growth is the answer to the current problems of europe. what is important for the eu and the euro area is to steady the course and continue to show determination both in terms of responsibility and solidarity. continued reform is needed to generate sustainable growth and jobs. that is why the commission, in its annual growth survey for 2013, while underlining the need to urgently address the social dimension — or indeed the social crisis — has maintained the following 5 priorities: pursuing differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation; restoring normal lending to the economy; promoting growth and competitiveness for today and tomorrow; tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis; and modernising public administration. these priorities are structural and it will take time before we fully benefit from their realisation. in the short term we need to complement these efforts with investment. i therefore welcome the fact that agreement has been reached between the council and parliament on providing much-needed financing for this year and on a budget for next year. i share parliament’s concerns that the agreement might not be sufficient to fulfil our legal obligations and economic objectives. that is why i signed a declaration, together with the president of the parliament and the rotating presidency, making clear our expectations. at the same time, i want to congratulate the budgetary authority for its capability in finding compromise solutions which are defendable and give stability. i want to give a special word of thanks to the president of this parliament, president schulz, for his personal commitment to finding a solution and, if i may, also a special word of thanks to all the members of parliament who have worked so hard to reach this compromise, namely alan lamassoure and also the rapporteur. we really need this capability, because we also need the same spirit to reach agreement on the multiannual financial framework. i have said it before and i will repeat it again today: the european budget is essentially an instrument for investment and, across europe, we cannot speak about the need for growth without recognising the critical need for targeted investment. the european budget is, at the european level, the most important instrument for this targeted investment. if we want to deliver growth across europe we must have a budget that can deliver investment across europe. last but not least, the european council this week, besides economic issues, will also deal with political and defence matters. you will recall that in the state of the union address i spoke of the potential in our defence sector and the need to work in a more european, coordinated manner in this very important area. it is vital that the sector faces up to the challenges of shrinking defence budgets and the fragmentation of european markets. that is why, in this sector also, the pooling and sharing of scarce resources is essential. part of this task, as we all know, is intergovernmental. but the commission also has a role to play, and will further build on the 2007 defence package and look into ways of mobilising defence-related commission instruments to make europe’s defence sector more efficient and competitive. if europe wants to be credible and promote its values on the global stage, indeed if we want to have a say in promoting peace in other parts of the world, then we must also move on with a common foreign and security policy including a defence dimension. to conclude, let me just tell you exactly what i said to the heads of state and government. most of the heads of state and government of the european union came to oslo to commemorate with us the nobel peace prize, and in a working meeting with the prime minister of norway, where we discussed our challenges very openly, i had the opportunity to tell our colleagues and the heads of state and government: ‘now that we have received the nobel peace prize we have to show that we deserve it in concrete work every day’. the nobel peace prize provides inspiration and encouragement to work even harder for our european project. the prize is not only a great distinction for the european union. even more than this it should strengthen the everyday courage —‘le courage du chaque jour’ — which we need to see us through these challenging times and to preserve the future of the unique, historic project called the european union.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr farage's speech inspires me to ask: 'mr farage, in your view, is the success of the reforms undertaken in the euro area in the interests of the united kingdom or not? "
mr president, i would like to thank you for deciding to award the sakharov prize to two of my compatriots. these two empty seats symbolise the behaviour of the islamic republic of iran to its citizens and a political system that has suppressed the people for more than 30 years and thereby continued its rule. ms sotoudeh, as you have heard, is currently in prison. mr lahidji and i are here as her representatives at this meeting. we were not chosen by accident. mr lahidji is a lawyer who was forced into exile 28 years ago for defending his clients. i, too, am a defence lawyer and four years ago had to leave my country, also for defending political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. ms sotoudeh is also a lawyer, and is in prison for defending political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. this is not an accidental choice; it shows what has been going on in iran over the last 30 years. i will now read out the message sent by ms sotoudeh. ‘esteemed president of parliament, deputies, your excellencies, the jury for the sakharov prize, ladies and gentlemen; first, i would like to send my warmest and sincere greetings from evin prison. i would also like to express my eternal gratitude for your decision to give me and jafar panahi this prize. i cannot conceal the fact that this decision is a great source of pride for me and encourages me to keep persevering on my way, patiently and calmly. i have been given a great opportunity to talk to you about my dreams. i have many dreams and they are all intertwined. man has passed a long way from the dreams of general concepts of truth, justice and the law to judicial independence, international courts and mechanisms for international monitoring of the unrestricted actions taken by governments. today, human beings look to their rights to have a peaceful and dignified life. human rights is a deceptive phrase for an elusive concept. respect for human rights, which should be seen as an integral and pivotal duty of governments, is now regarded as a privilege that governments may or may not decide to grant to their citizens. though human rights and the mechanisms for guaranteeing them have a long history over many decades, their realisation still depends largely on what governments want. yet governments are the biggest violators of human rights themselves. this is how human rights are being breached in all corners of the world in the absence of effective mechanisms to ensure they are upheld. there are many prisoners throughout many countries in the world that are filled with prisoners of conscience and people who simply have different views and opinions. though the political and legal actions of governments and international institutions for the protection of human rights and the rights of opponents have been effective to some extent in preserving the rights of famous political prisoners, they can never secure and guarantee observance of the rights of thousands of unknown political prisoners whose rights have been trampled due to the failure of international mechanisms. of course countries like china, cuba, venezuela and, nearer to home, russia and the arab countries have — or have had — well-known political prisoners who have been in jail for many, many years. high-profile political prisoners include liu xiaobo, among others. nonetheless, they are examples and symbols of the sad and widespread truth that such regimes impose long imprisonment on political or ideological opponents to a very great extent. you too will definitely not limit the violation of human rights to the issue of prisoners. how many revolutions, and how much unrest, have the countries of the middle east experienced in the last two years? which of the arab spring revolutions has failed to pay attention to the issue of human rights? the most important demand of these revolutions from libya to egypt, jordan to saudi arabia and bahrain to syria — which is the most disastrous and tragic of all — has been freedom of expression, freedom of the press, independence of the judiciary, the release of political prisoners and putting an end to murders, which unfortunately still go on in syria. it can therefore be concluded that the main demand in all these revolutions has been for respect of the most fundamental concepts of human rights that are being violated by their respective governments. since these governments have left no scope for negotiations and dialogue, and international mechanisms for ensuring observance of basic human rights have not been helpful, we have witnessed the rise of these revolutions in the region. as a matter of fact the real world of the 21st century is still a place for political power games. so how long should the syrian government keep on killing? where in the world are the actions of the syrian government regarded as a crime against humanity? and if their actions are a clear case of crimes against humanity, how can this violence machine be stopped? how can the human rights institutions stop this repressive machine? in my view, unfortunately that of a human being from iran — a woman from iran — international mechanisms are not enough to protect human rights. human rights and democracy are the common heritage of human beings and all people deserve them and must make every effort to protect them. i am talking about the dream of justice in a country which jailed, a day after the presidential elections, hundreds of street protestors whose sole intention was to hold peaceful demonstrations. their crime was that they doubted the accuracy of the election results. hundreds of people were imprisoned and the sum total of sentences imposed on them amounted to more than a thousand years. tens of people were killed and more than ten people were executed for political offences following the elections. yet the iranian nation deserves free, fair and democratic elections. the imprisonments are not restricted to protesters. their families too were exposed to various threats and punishments and their lawyers were also widely jailed and sentenced to heavy punishments. even the lawyers who took the case of the said lawyers were subject to legal prosecution and punishment. three of my five lawyers were prosecuted and one of them, abdolfattah soltani, is now serving his 13-year sentence in prison. on the other hand, you are aware that the increasing judicial pressure on my family, and especially on my children, has led me to go on a hunger strike because it is normal for the authorities to sentence the whole family in order to punish political prisoners by ruining their families by the exercise of judicial pressure. let me not speak about the difficulties we face. you and i know that democracy has a long and difficult road ahead. no complaint can be made about this; the only solution is to patiently follow the path we have been pursuing. with this introduction i want to tell you that we have never lost our hope in the future despite such difficulties. those who have followed this path have surely left such difficulties behind, but they never lost hope. we only need to remember the years in which martin luther king kept on protesting against racial discrimination. in another part of the world, nelson mandela served three decades in prison in the course of his fight against racial discrimination. in another continent, from the year in which he was released, a woman — and a fighter — in burma, now known as myanmar, spent around two decades in prison for seeking freedom. now that aung san suu kyi has been released, iranians who seek freedom are being sentenced to long-term imprisonment for wanting freedom and using totally peaceful methods. these are all signs of truth. the torch of freedom is being passed on, but shall never be extinguished. the dream of achieving justice, establishing the law and reviving human rights by working as a lawyer is tempting, even if it leads to imprisonment. every generation has its own stories. people on earth have been struggling with religious bigotry for generations. the short-sighted people who believe that everyone but the followers of their religion is going to hell know that they are sending most of the people on earth to hell. they are truly the ones who want to turn the earth into a hell. that is why separation of religion from government is essential so that governments do not have the opportunity to create gigantic hells for followers of other lines of thought, religions and ideologies by abusing their official power. when it comes to the use of non-violence, the violence- seekers mention thousands of arguments to justify their official violence. they say that their opponents need only reject, or even hide, their beliefs. but what is violence and what is non-violence? should protesters who insist upon having their rights, and tolerate cruelties with patience, be regarded as violence-seekers? if so, then millions of people in the middle ages should be criticised for standing against the churches. there is no end to religious arguments and fights, and they will exist as long as man lives on earth. there is enough time for such arguments, which have their own supporters all around the world. no matter what the result of these arguments is, they will affect people’s lives. what matters are the rights of these people, which should be observed. prosecution of people because of their beliefs should be prevented so we witness the observance of justice within society, and this cannot be achieved without judicial independence. i have only one dream. i dream of the realisation of justice, and i believe that this dream will be realised in my country by judicial independence. but judicial independence is quite far away and unachievable. when political and civil activists, lawyers, protesters against elections, religious minorities and drug smugglers are all tried in a revolutionary court, a court which is basically held informally and off the record, the revival of justice and judicial independence in such a regime is quite far from being achieved. so i think of another solution. i think of an asian court of human rights so that nationals of asian countries can prevent tyrannies being perpetrated against them by judicial systems by referring to the said court and their right to be supported by a regional institution in a deserving way. paying attention to the above need highlights the fact that it is the duty of governments to observe human rights. governments should know that in order to maintain their existence they have no choice but to observe the rights of each single individual. this is where measures should be taken so as to ensure governments fulfil their deceptive international commitments. otherwise, joining any convention will have no result but propaganda and a lot of fuss. truth and rights are elevated concepts which have been turned into distant, unachievable and complicated concepts continuously and for years by some people. i believe that freedom means relief; relief of personal interests, which prevents us from hiding the truth or even passing along it with negligence. this truthful belief is accompanied by pain so as to experience a happy life with emotions mixed with freedom and relief. i would like to express my gratitude and say what an honour it is to receive such a prize. i dedicate this prize to all iranian political prisoners, to religious minorities who have been oppressed in the name of islam, the religion i follow, to my bahà’i and christian fellow-men, to protesters during the elections who have tolerated imprisonment with patience and to other political prisoners, especially my courageous and persistent lawyer abdolfattah soltani, who has always defended political and ideological prisoners, despite all the dangers he faced. he was my lawyer too and showed great and unique bravery and skill in defending me. he has now been sentenced to 13 years in prison and exile to a distant town in iran and is serving his sentence patiently. i express my gratitude to you as i look forward to the realisation of human rights in the entire world. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
ladies and gentlemen, i'm speaking to you today with emotion, but it's also a test for me. i would like to quote president schulz, who, in our private discussion, has just told me that this is a great day. it is indeed a great day, a very great day, because we are talking about a country in prison: physical prison and spiritual prison. and before i talk about jafar panahi, i'd like to say something very personal. this country is a prison, but it is a prison with holes, through which rats enter, some of whom belong to your countries, to our countries, and who are doing very lucrative business despite the un ban and despite the national ban. (applause) i would like to thank now, let me tell you about jafar panahi. two and a half years ago, there was a seat left vacant at the cannes film festival as a member of the jury. it was the seat of jafar panahi, who was banned from attending this film festival and this film festival. he was accused of all sorts of crimes, including those mentioned by president schulz. at the cinémathèque française, we were all very moved and, at the same time, worried and rightly so, because a few months later he was charged and also sentenced to six years in prison, and in addition, to a 20-year ban on filming, writing, having relations with the media, a kind of intellectual and spiritual murder. we all got excited and we started a kind of petition, a movement, which was immediately followed by the cannes film festival, by the authors' associations, by the directors' associations and by personalities from all over the world. that is how a relationship was established between us and iranian cinema, which had existed for a long time, but now in a much more dramatic situation; and that is why, i think, jafar panahi has honoured us and honoured me by accepting this prize which the european parliament has given him. it's a very important award, because it puts, in my opinion, a spotlight on the state of cinema, of a great iranian cinema, and especially filmmakers who really want to talk about the country and iranian society. jafar panahi has asked me to read the following to you. i shall do so in english, as he has requested that i do so in english, and i beg your pardon for any blunders i may have made. first, i'd like to express my apologies for not being among you today, although i would like to be. however, i'm not sure who should be apologizing here me or others. therefore, i would like to express my gratitude to the founders and organizers of the prize and salute andrei sakharov, whose fight for human rights and freedom became an excellent opportunity to talk about human beings and their basic rights. two years ago, upon receiving my sentence, a friend asked me if i knew what the exact meaning of the sentence was. according to this friend, the message carried by the sentence was for me to run from my country and never come back. i still do not know if this interpretation was correct. however, if it was, i never understood why i had to leave my country, which i love dearly. this love goes way beyond geographical boundaries. i am not a film-maker with social concerns. as a film-maker, i am inspired by the society i live in. my creation is the result of a personal perception of fact, of life and ontological experiences in my specific society during a lifetime. run, or live with the sword of damocles above my head: that was the question. eventually i chose to stay, even though i knew i could no longer take my camera into the heart of this society and do the only thing i know how to do: filmmaking. not making films is a slow death for a film-maker. always, you know. and whenever i decided to prevent this, and anxiously and hiddenly make a movie in a closed secret space, i knew that i also had to face the consequences. now the question is why the government the almighty and powerful becomes more intolerant every day. history is the narrative of a few making the life of many miserable while using the most unacceptable excuses differences of race, sex, language, religion or political ideas. unfortunately the authorities of my country are becoming so intolerant that they cannot even stand an independent journalist or a film-maker. these last few days sattar beheshti, a blogger whose web log had only eight visitors, was imprisoned and after a few days his family was asked to collect his body. he shared the unfortunate fate of students of cinema, amir javadifar and others, after the silent march of protest a few years back. many lawyers were imprisoned for funding the imprisoned demonstrators. nasrin sotoudeh is the outstanding example of such a situation. sadly enough, we can go on mentioning many cases of extreme injustice in iran and in many other countries around the world. however, this is not my intention today. right at the moment my fears go beyond concerns about basic human rights. i fear war, and i want to depict a vision which speaks of this fear. imagine a time when any form of artistic work or practice had vanished, and instead all you had is an array of weapons comforting bewildered humans. perhaps this image seems unrealistic to some. however, it can easily become a tangible reality that we all reconcile ourselves to. i am saying this because right now the spectre of war is haunting our world to an extent we have never seen before. world powers have become more intolerant every day and almost seem to have a conscious determination to spread ugliness and intolerance, and war will pave the way for this. perhaps andrei sakharov imagined a scene like my unreal vision when he decided to oppose war on becoming aware of the destructive potential of the hydrogen bomb. we must keep in mind that a small war now can lead to many and bigger wars in the future. if this happens, human rights will not matter one iota. and he adds, this morning, during a phone call i dedicate this award to all the anonymous freedom fighters and all those who struggle for peace around the world who remain unknown. thank you for your patience. (sustained applause)
mr president, on behalf of many of the members here, i wish to protest against the attitude of some members on the benches above who do not even want to join in the european parliament's tribute to iranian resistance fighters and who sit by while they are being paid tribute. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i abstained in the final vote on this report. with good intentions, the report is a catch-all. some colleagues seem to be more concerned about the transport conditions of animals than those of humans. moreover, the reasons given are sometimes gloomy because they are based on the taste sensitivities of humans: "respect for animal welfare principles may influence the quality of animal products"? what does it mean to "respect the welfare" of animals destined for slaughter? the report notes that 'the shortcomings in the transposition of (european regulations) are often justified by legal requirements which are impossible to transpose into practice'. because the european parliament's demands "are impossible to put into practice", we must add a layer of wishful thinking!
in writing. − we call for a revision of regulation 1/2005 on the basis of the latest scientific data published by efsa with a view to introducing improvements in the conditions under which animals are transported. a key point for me is also the transport time of animals for slaughter. although i am of the opinion that the duration of transport is not so much the issue as the conditions under which animals are transported, i am convinced that the transport of animals for slaughter should be limited to eight hours. we would thus not only contribute to animal welfare but also encourage the regional slaughter and marketing of meat products. a slaughterhouse in luxembourg can hardly compete with a slaughterhouse in east germany. the unskilled minimum wage in luxembourg is over eur 1800, while in germany there is no minimum wage.
