thank you, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, the next european presidency will indeed face many challenges, including the euro crisis, including a multiannual budget. but it is also important to address energy issues, which are playing an increasingly important role in geopolitics. in particular, the establishment of a common external energy policy for the european union must be promoted. we now have legislation that separates transmission system operators from suppliers, from manufacturers, in the european union. at the same time, we know that there are member states which conclude cooperation agreements with third countries which provide for exclusive rights to use infrastructure, thus preventing competition and working against the citizens of the european union. i call on the presidency to stress the need for european union legislation to be introduced not only in agreements between the countries of the european union but also with third countries. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the current draft fiscal stability pact should be completed. the legal status of the contract within the existing eu legal framework needs to be clearly defined. it is important to ensure that this treaty does not conflict with the eu's fundamental treaties and that it is incorporated into the eu's fundamental treaties as soon as possible, thus preserving the unity of the eu. parallel institutions which could create competition between the eu27 and the member states of this intergovernmental agreement must not be created. given that a number of eu member states have committed themselves to adopting the euro when they joined the eu and have not yet done so, it is necessary to provide for the possibility for those countries to choose when the treaty will become binding on them after their full accession to the euro area or earlier. the principle of commitment to the european commission's proposals, rather than their mandatory support, must be maintained in order to avoid excessive budget deficits. it also requires a precise explanation of the qualified majority required to reject a commission proposal.
in writing. − since the measures put forward by the national governments and heads of state are considered to be a continuation of unsuccessful policy, do not resolve the causes of the global financial and economic crisis, and especially not the insufficient regulation of key economic sectors and the increasing macro-economical imbalances in the euro area, i think that the european council measures will deepen the global capital crisis. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − i consider that the parliament's resolution on the conclusions of the european council meeting (8-9 december 2011) on the draft international agreement on a fiscal stability union is not to be supported, as several of the objectives defined therein are not achievable for the foreseeable future for political reasons. first, the call for measures such as a pan-european financial transaction tax and so-called stability bonds in article 5 of the resolution is contrary to the policy positions of several eu member states. they have not yet been agreed at international level. secondly, the scepticism expressed in article 1 of the resolution about the intergovernmental agreement as a form of achieving the eu's fiscal objectives is unfounded. the council chose the fiscal compact precisely to circumvent the long and complex procedure for amending the eu treaties, which is contrary to the main task at hand to convince the financial markets of the euro area and the eu as a whole's commitment to resolving the emerging crisis quickly and decisively. thirdly, the call for the community method to be used to transform monetary union into 'true economic and fiscal union' is unacceptable, since this may be unacceptable to several member states from the point of view of preserving their sovereignty. at the same time, i welcome the fact that a majority of my colleagues supported the proposal by elmar brok to include in the resolution a call for the right to participate in the eurogroup summits of all eu member states, not just those that have joined the euro area.
in writing. i am sure that many victims of totalitarian communism and their relatives will be pleased to see the new hungarian constitution include a clause stating that the hungarian socialist party has assumed responsibility for the actions of the hungarian socialist workers' party. this is not a problem unique to hungary, for many european countries still have influential politicians who cooperated with the communist parties and the soviet union during the cold war, ignoring their crimes against humanity. unfortunately, not all the rules contained in the new constitution are clearly in line with european principles. the independence of the central bank is one of those fundamental principles. i am confident that the procedure initiated by the commission will lead to legal clarity on this matter. it is commendable that the hungarian prime minister, viktor orbán, has found the time to come to the european parliament in person to discuss the new constitution with meps. his commitment to european principles is commendable and gives hope that we will not have to return to discussing these issues at european level.
for the gue/ngl group thank you, chairman. i would also like to thank mr bové for his report, which seems to have been written by a farmer who really feels the pain of farmers. i want to say, for my part, that the world has reached a point where agricultural products are now used for both food and energy. the grain is used for bioethanol, rapeseed for biodiesel, maize for biogas, etc. as a result, funds that were previously in the fossil fuel market are now flowing into the food production sector, causing disproportionate price fluctuations. i believe that the european commission must urgently take this matter seriously and devise a mechanism to prevent financial speculation on the food market based on these factors as soon as possible. too little attention is paid to the issues of soil fertility. the european commission must, in my view, develop and adopt a set of administrative measures to increase farmers' economic autonomy and the use of the necessary resources. it is fair and just that economically justified direct payments are also one of the ways for farmers to reduce the negative impact of fluctuations in the supply of resources on the stability of agricultural production. this is why this issue must be given the utmost attention and responsibility. thank you.
in writing. − the community code on visas has been in force since 10 april 2010. during the process of preparing the handbook, it became clear to me that the wording of the articles concerning exemption from the airport transit visa (atv) requirement was unclear. according to the visa code, third-country nationals who hold a valid atv issued by a member state, canada, japan or the united states of america or who hold a valid residence permit issued by a member state, andorra, canada, japan, san marino or the united states of america are exempted from the atv requirement. i support the modifications proposed by the commission, particularly in order to avoid people who already hold a visa or residence permit covered by the atv exemption being subjected to further id checks, when it is clear that they do not present a risk for irregular entry.
in writing. − though the agreement will enable the reciprocal protection of the geographical indications of the respective parties and will contribute to the approximation of legislation among the eu’s neighbouring countries, i voted against, since i do not consider cooperation with saakashvili’s regime possible.
in writing. − since this procedure is aimed at giving the ep’s consent to the accession of the eu to regulation no 29 of the united nations economic commission for europe on uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle, i supported the rapporteur.
in writing. − this proposal is very timely for provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to light emitting diode (led) light sources. i am in favour.
in writing. − the main goal, as we know, is to bring the existing 19 bilateral agreements concluded between member states and indonesia in line with eu law. thus, the agreement amends the bilateral agreements in the areas falling under eu competence. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the memorandum of cooperation is meant to ensure greater harmonisation of standards and closer coordination of the parties’ respective activities, as well as a better use of resources by avoiding duplication of effort. cooperation will also include the sharing of confidential data and the participation of eu observers in initial civil aviation organisation audit missions. relevant provisions for actions in the field of aviation safety and security, traffic management and environmental protection are an integral part of the memorandum of cooperation. i am in favour.
in writing. − to tackle climate change, to avoid environmental damage and to keep hold of the valuable resources in electric/electronic equipment, we need high collection rates, high recycling rates and appropriate recycling standards, strong legislation against illegal export, an enhanced producer’s responsibility, better designed equipment and a fair distribution of responsibilities and costs between producers, consumers and public authorities. i voted in favour.
in writing. − a commission report on the implementation of this directive identified certain weaknesses and areas where updates and improvement are needed. here are the key elements of the agreement: approved active substances will be included in a union list; derogation from mutual recognition of national authorisations – under certain conditions, member states have the possibility to refuse to grant an authorisation or to adjust the terms and conditions of an authorisation for a biocidal product if there are specific concerns; inclusion of a new article on measures to achieve the objective of sustainable use of biocidal products; labelling requirements. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this very timely report identifies problems upstream of farm production, focusing on the rising costs of purchased farm inputs over the past decade in the fields of energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water. i voted in favour
in writing. − i am confident that that the problem of imbalances in the food distribution chain has a clear european dimension, which demands a specific european solution, given the strategic importance of the agri-food chain to the european union. it is necessary to propose robust community legislation without distorting the proper functioning of the markets. the member states should play an active role in establishing consultation fora, with proper representation of the players along the food chain, so as to promote dialogue and establish guidelines to bring about more balanced relationships. i voted in favour.
in writing. − whilst the commission strategy identifies priority areas of action, they remain in part somewhat vague. they should be made clearer and an assessment of all the technical options and related costs and benefits should be provided. clear governance also needs to be established in relation to space policy in order to harmonise priorities and resources derived from national funding and from the european union, the european space agency and the european defence agency, and to make these priorities and resources available to all eu member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the research conducted with the participation of the commission shows that food waste reaches annually 89 million tonnes or 179 kg per person. meanwhile, the eu has estimated that 80 million people live below the poverty level and 18 million receive food aid from charities. adopting the report by mrs caronna, i think that it is necessary to define a strategy for a more efficient food chain and take measures on decreasing food waste. i voted in favour.
in writing. i welcomed the fact that the leaders of the 25 countries that took part in the informal european council agreed on a fiscal pact - a treaty on stability, convergence and governance in economic and monetary union. this is a prerequisite for better national budgetary discipline in the future and for a stronger linkage of economies within a stronger system. the issue of the participation of non-euro area countries in the implementation of this agreement is also very important. non-euro area countries will soon be able to determine which parts of the treaty they will respect before joining the euro area, thus contributing to fiscal and economic integration. this european council decision is a very important step and a sufficiently flexible mechanism in view of the forthcoming introduction of the euro in latvia. the european peoples must work together in a targeted, swift and effective manner to get europe out of the crisis and to prevent it from happening again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would also like to congratulate mr fisas and the authors of the opinions on their excellent work. our political group welcomes the eu-level action in the field of sport being mentioned in the commission’s communication. we also support the proposals included in parliament’s motion for a resolution. in particular we are fully satisfied that the report voices the concern regarding support for traditional sport and games as an important part of our diverse cultural heritage. member states should take measures to protect them, since some traditional games and sports are in danger of disappearing. the main matters of concern are some social aspects of the life of professional sportsmen and women, many of whom face an uncertain future at the end of their sporting careers. this problem was outlined especially by the leaders of the latvian trade union of sport and tourism during our discussions on the subject. europe should promote its social model and improve social standards concerning such a specific category of employees as professional athletes. i hope the appeal to the member states to consider ways of alleviating the financial burden on the lowest-paid professional sportspersons will be acknowledged. nevertheless, the implementation of a common european definition of the procedure and determination of terms for professional athletes and coaches retiring is welcomed. therefore we support the suggestion in the opinion of the committee on legal affairs to call on the commission to initiate a dialogue with all eu professional sports organisations on how to tackle problems arising from differences in the member states regarding employment contracts.
chairman! i support the ideas and thoughts expressed in the regulation and the report. for my part, i believe that more attention should be paid to the recycling of organic waste, especially in areas where there is active agriculture. organic waste is relatively easy to recycle if it is incinerated, but we lose a lot of value in this way. this type of waste is very suitable for producing new value added products and could also be financed under the second pillar for agriculture. stricter standards are needed for both waste management and the use of chemicals in agriculture and industry.
in writing. − it is known that there is the increasing and quasi-permanent coordination among the brics countries in various policy areas in the international arena, including at the united nations with special regard to the recent cases of the unsc resolution on libya, the un positions on the côte d’ivoire or sudan, as well as concerning the eu’s status at the unga. i am confident in significant political, economic and social divergences among the brics countries and believe that the eu had no interest in dealing with the brics countries as a bloc by overestimating the significance of their foreign policy coordination.
in writing. − i am confident that the eu should restrict totalitarian regimes not only with sanctions but limit also the application and use of the financial means of these regimes! it is known that in egypt hosni mubarak and his family were estimated to have a personal fortune of between usd 50 billion and usd 70 billion, predominantly invested in the eu and us; the director of the london school of economics resigned over revelations that the lse has been involved in a deal worth gbp 2.2 million to train libyan civil servants; that a further gbp 20 000 was paid to the lse for tuition for the prime minister of libya, mr al-mahmudi, who was named in the unsc resolution 1970 for, amongst other things, the gross and systematic violation of human rights, including the repression of peaceful demonstrators; it is estimated that the gaddafi regime holds billions in assets across the eu, especially in the uk (private property); kim il jong keeps approximately usd 4 billion in european banks; omar al-bashir, the sudanese president, is suspected of siphoning off usd 9 billion from his country’s oil boom and depositing much of it in british banks. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is not clear why it is necessary to make it easy for companies to change their seats, to include workers in decision-making. i abstained.
in writing. − the report basically points out areas of weakness in control over the funds and proposes points where improvements could be made. i totally agree with the rapporteur.
in writing. − fair access to justice should be available to european citizens, including but not only via compensatory relief. to this purpose the commission should put forward complementary methods that guarantee the full enjoyment of rights: amicable settlements, online dispute resolution mechanisms, public enforcement and common procedures for redress. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the resolution the european parliament opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) 1924/2006 with regard to the list of nutrition claims and considers that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of the basic instrument. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the amendments proposed by the european commission to the regulation on the list of nutritional claims are in principle misleading to the public and are mainly in the interests of large food producers. the amendments proposed by the european commission, which provide for the possibility of labelling food products as containing 15% less sugar, fat or salt, would mislead consumers about the true energy value and health of the product. in particular, sugar can be replaced by sweeteners, which does not change the energy value of the product. it is important to protect society from inappropriate product marketing and to ensure as much equality of opportunity as possible for competition between large and small enterprises. the amendments proposed by the european commission would have put large companies in a better position to adapt to the new regulations much more easily and flexibly than european smes, such as those in latvia.
in writing. − in the resolution the european parliament reaffirms its resolution of 18 january 2012. it is very good. in the final text of the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union it would have been better to reach agreement under eu law. i am in favour.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the european council meeting of 30 january 2012 as it highlighted the role of the intergovernmental agreement on economic governance. this intergovernmental agreement calls for budgetary discipline in the european union (eu) countries. such measures are necessary to restore investor confidence in europe. latvia's credit rating is also influenced by future projections in other eu countries and in europe as a whole. latvia has a strong interest in the development of the banking sector in the country. europe now has to make the reforms that latvia and its people have already made.
in writing. − new sanctions, particularly an embargo on the import of crude oil to the eu, will help to persuade the iranian government to observe un resolutions. therefore, i would like to have sanctions to be aimed only at those responsible for violence and not to touch upon the population, especially the poor. the european parliament calls on the iranian authorities not to block the strait of hormuz, believing that such a step may result in regional conflict and provoke repressive actions from the international community. i support the council of europe in its determination to find a diplomatic resolution of the iranian nuclear issue and achieve a reliable global solution. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the very good aim is enhancing health through sport; its economic role; the organisation of sports, and fostering a sense of european identity through sport. within those broad areas more specific matters are addressed such as the role of agents in sports; dual careers for young sportspersons; violence at sports events; corruption and match fixing; anti-doping measures, and greater representation of women in sports’ governing structures. i voted in favour.
in writing. − an analysis provides very contrasting information. a handful of member states, including denmark, netherlands, austria and sweden are very advanced; indeed no petitions have been received from citizens in these countries expressing any concern about waste management. however, many other eu countries are far behind in their implementation of waste strategies and in this context the legacy of the past, and an excessive dependence on landfill options, linked to the need to change attitudes towards waste disposal, has caused serious breaches of eu legislation to occur. the directive is timely and very important!
in writing. − the daphne programme was set up in 1997 with the aim of combating violence against women, young people and children. the initiative was taken by the ngos, the parliament, the commission and specialists in the field. the objective was to enhance the cooperation at european level. i supported the report, since five years ago i initiated a similar project in the latvian parliament. i hope that this report will give impetus for a solution of the problem.
in writing. − this report refers to un resolution 1325 and aims to combat sexual violence against women and children in situations of armed conflict. in favour.
in writing. − the aim of this report is demonstrating and enhancing both political will and financial commitment from the eu and thus playing a fundamental role in achieving universal energy access by 2030. in that sense the report is very timely and useful.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the annual accounts in the field of taxation. while the resolution focuses on avoiding double taxation, it also devotes a significant part of its time to simplifying tax administration in the european union. the resolution stresses the need to simplify the taxation of labour due to the increasing mobility and to reduce the barriers to businesses carrying out cross-border transactions. export markets are important for latvian companies. however, they are not always available because of high costs and lack of information. the resolution is a step forward as the european commission is invited to develop legislation to reduce these barriers and facilitate tax administration for latvian exporting companies. on the basis of these considerations and also in order to avoid double taxation, i had submitted amendments to this resolution which have been adopted and incorporated in the final text of this resolution.
in writing. − it is very good that the report focuses on subjects related to taxation insofar as they are impeding the good functioning of the internal market. nevertheless, even though the structure could be improved and the focus shifted, thanks to good negotiations with the rapporteur, important points are taken like acknowledging commission proposals like the ccctb, ftt, energy taxation, vat, recognising the need to reduce expenditure as much as raising public revenues. i am in favour.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy because i believe that it is a true indication of the existing shortcomings in the energy market. the citizens of latvia and the european union as a whole have an interest in competition between energy producers to ensure the lowest possible price for heat and electricity. unfortunately, competition in the energy market remains significantly limited as the largest players continue to dominate the market. in some member states, such as latvia, a monopoly on the gas market still exists. it is in the interest of the latvian people to end this monopoly and to ensure gas supplies at the lowest possible price, which will ensure stable economic growth. it is therefore important that the european parliament continues to draw attention to these shortcomings in the energy market.
in writing. − eu competition policy has brought numerous benefits in terms of consumer welfare and has been an essential tool in eliminating obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. i am in favour.
in writing. the european commission's efforts to help member states overcome the crisis, in particular by fighting youth unemployment and supporting smes, are very welcome. however, the commission's plan to divert €82 billion of unallocated structural funds resources, including €22 billion from the european social fund, should still be carefully analysed with the member states concerned, where and how these resources can be invested more effectively in the sustainable development of the labour market, in particular with a view to creating jobs for young people. there's still a lot of uncertainty. in any case, member states should take very seriously their responsibility for the quality of education and breaking the 'back door' so that young people, especially those without work experience, can successfully enter the labour market, for example by taking up a traineeship or receiving support to start their own business. this type of programme is very important in countries with high unemployment, such as latvia, where talented and educated young people are already looking for jobs abroad when they cannot find attractive jobs. this is a very dangerous trend for the long-term viability of a nation and for economic growth. i highly value the dialogue with the commission in dealing with a matter of such importance to europe.
thank you, chairman. there's a very good english proverb that says, "every family has a black sheep". today latvia has an official political party "all for latvia!" which considers the war criminals of the ss legion to be heroes. radically insult one third of all latvians, calling them occupiers and colonists. insults monuments and data that are sacred to many latvians. initiated the closure of minority schools. however, this did not prevent the association of ss legion venerables from becoming part of the latvian government. as a result, the country is on the brink of ethnic conflict. i believe that the european parliament needs to urgently assess the radical actions of the nationalists and to ask the latvian government to explain how it can include people who support war crimes and consider them heroic. thank you.
in writing. − i support the enhancement of the role of the – already established – observatory on counterfeiting and piracy in the collection of objective data on the scale of ipr infringements. i voted ‘in favour’, therefore.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's position on the interconnection of the central register, the commercial register and the register of companies, as i believe that closer cooperation between registers will improve the functioning of the internal market in the european union. the european union must exploit the potential of technology to develop its internal market. the system of interconnection of registers introduced by this bill will, using the latest technologies, promote cross-border cooperation between businesses, new cross-border investments and the creation of new jobs. the bill has taken a step towards reducing the administrative burden on companies wishing to cooperate with an enterprise in another member state. the minimum requirements laid down by the bill for a common pan-european platform through which registers will be able to exchange information provide clarity for companies on what information will be available about another member state's company. for example, when concluding a contract with a company in another member state, it is important for any entrepreneur to check first whether that company is not liquidated. i am therefore confident that this bill will provide an additional stimulus to the crossborder cooperation and job creation that european economies so badly need.
in writing. − if the platform makes the exchange of basic business information simpler, this will benefit potential investors, regulators, and the public as a whole. the platform does not replace any national business registers, but simply makes it easier to access and understand information from across the eu. i am in favour.
in writing. − it is known that the council adopted regulation (ec) no 241/2008 on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community and the republic of guinea bissau. the union has negotiated with the republic of guinea-bissau a new protocol granting eu vessels fishing opportunities in waters in which guinea-bissau exercises its sovereignty or jurisdiction as regards fishing. consequently, a new protocol was initialled on 15 june 2011, covering a period of one year from 16 june 2011. its conclusion by the council is subject to the prior consent of the ep under articles 43(2) and 218(6)(a). regarding the content, the new protocol contains additional clauses concerning the suspension and revision of the financial compensation and the suspension of its implementation. in that sense the protocol is very timely. i voted ‘in favour’.
in writing. − the protocol gives morocco the right to take part in those current and future community programmes open to it. this new prospect is consistent with the objectives of the eu’s new neighbourhood policy. since through the protocol the eu is supporting and strongly encouraging morocco in its efforts to intensify its reforms and to initiate future ones, while guaranteeing that its citizens will play a real role therein, i voted in favour.
in writing. − council directive 2000/75/ec lays down specific provisions for the control and eradication of bluetongue disease including rules on vaccination. i am not an expert in this field but i support the struggle for sheep health.
in writing. − it is high time it was necessary to replace the existing national payment systems by a single european system. it is good that the commission presented a proposal for a regulation on 16 december 2010 to set deadlines for the two main payment methods – bank transfer and direct debits – to move all existing systems to the single payment area scheme. the regulation also provides for a ban on the use of fees between banks for direct debit transactions as currently charged in six countries (france, italy, portugal, belgium, spain, and sweden). i support the initiative.
in writing. − taking into account the experience and expertise of mr baudilio, i think that he will work well in the court of auditors.
chairman! i join the many millions of poor people living in the european union in congratulating our commission for having reached an agreement with the council to continue this programme. it's not just food for the hungry, it's also support for agriculture. in latvia, more than 185 000 people, or one in twelve, received this benefit last year. i also agree with those colleagues who say that this programme must be continued, and i would like to see that, as a basis for the continuation of this programme, we take food from intervention stocks rather than from the market, that it is paid for 100% by the european union budget, and that this contribution must be made by products produced in the european union.
it seems appropriate to focus on three priorities: fiscal consolidation, labour reform and growth-enhancing measures. but will the citizens of the european union trust us with the 2020 targets? there are countries like latvia that have successfully consolidated their budgets, but their gdp in 2020 will be exactly the same as in 2006. income distribution in society is becoming more unequal as evidenced by the gini coefficients and the proportion of people at risk of poverty in each member state (almost all) is also increasing. the younger generation doesn't want to be unemployed, to spend their best years working temporary jobs to pay off the national debt to other national pension funds, and they just leave. and finally, the objectives of the financial perspective for the coming period. for the new member states, the economic and social cohesion intensity will be limited to a maximum of 2,5% of gdp. this was 4% in the financial perspective. this means that the differences between member states will only increase in the future.
there's a saying, you can't steal from the poor. the greatest challenge we face in europe as a whole is to increase economic activity and to ensure the well-being of our citizens. it is very important that we do these savings to balance our member states' budgets, but we also need growth. there are many who think that the only way to grow is for member states to spend more and more money to stimulate the economy, but that would be at the expense of borrowing money and not the right way. the right way to promote growth is twofold. first, member states must carry out the necessary structural reforms to reduce the overall costs of public administration. secondly, the european internal market must be further developed by removing obstacles to cross-border activity. without economic growth, my friends, we will not have prosperity in europe.
in writing. − ? the arrangement between the european community and iceland, liechtenstein, norway and the swiss confederation on the participation of those states in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers as regards the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis should be concluded. i am in favour.
in writing. − i am sure that continued use of the guidelines is necessary in 2012, and i agree that eu member states should use these guidelines when implementing their own national employment policies. i voted in favour.
in writing. − if there is a possibility of market purchases of food products in the event of unavailability of suitable intervention stocks for food distribution, then it is important to guarantee continuation of the food aid programme, on the most appropriate legal basis, in the next financial period. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i call for support for the agreement reached on the regulation, as it has a clear and explicit objective to continue providing eu support to the most deprived people in the union. the approach of adopting a regulation at this early second reading is also supported, in order to avoid delays in the food programme that would worsen the situation of the poor. it is also important to continue the programme from the viewpoint that the eurozone crisis and the uncertain economic outlook for the eu do not give us hope for an increase in economic activity and human well-being in the coming years. i would like to emphasise that, in view of latvia's socioeconomic situation, it would be politically incorrect to abolish the food programme on the basis of purely theoretical considerations as to whether or not it complies with the principle of subsidiarity. the crisis caused huge losses and a real decline in living standards for latvians, and the poor became even poorer. this was partly due to the crisis management approach adopted by latvian taxpayers to cover private debt while not reducing the value of the national currency, which led to a very significant reduction in the state budget deficit and a dramatic fall in gdp. the latvian people, and especially the poorest, are effectively saving the scandinavian and european banking systems from significant shocks. it would therefore only be logical for the eu to provide for their fate in the form of at least the necessary food parcels.
in writing. − the first radio spectrum policy programme promotes technology neutrality, innovation and investment. it is thus a very important programme.
in writing. − this is a very important regulation, requested by the ep after the dairy price collapse of 2008 and 2009. it aims to boost dairy farmers’ bargaining power, to ensure fairer milk prices and to help farmers cope with the ending of milk quotas. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in april 2011 the conference of presidents approved a series of recommendations concerning the treatment of own-initiative reports. with a view to improving the treatment of own-initiative reports, in particular at the plenary stage, the report following the recommendations by the cop decided that own-initiative reports drawn up on the basis of annual activity and monitoring reports should be handled as strategic reports within the meaning of the last sentence of rule 48(2) of the rules of procedure.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the possibility of introducing stability bonds, as it justifies the need to introduce euro area securities and explains the necessary measures to be taken to introduce them. clearly, europe is changing, but first and foremost it is the european monetary union, the countries that have adopted the euro. each of these countries has a different economic situation, debt levels, growth prospects, etc. however, the european central bank, which oversees the european monetary union, does not have the power to issue euro-area securities with the highest credit rating. stability bonds, or eurozone securities, would mean the responsibility of all euro countries for the total debt. of course, the introduction of such securities is not possible in the current situation, as stricter fiscal rules are needed in euro area countries to reduce the risk of a member state defaulting. latvia will benefit from the introduction of european stability bonds or european securities after joining the euro area, as they would have the highest credit rating, i.e. euro area countries could borrow at extremely low interest rates.
in writing. − the resolution is an answer by the european parliament to the commission’s green paper of 23 november 2011, in which the commission offered three options for stability bonds for euro-area countries. in the resolution the european parliament points to the necessity of conducting additional work regarding all three options.
in writing. − guidance on fiscal consolidation must be based on social justice and not increase poverty or hamper efforts to tackle unemployment and mitigate the social consequences of the crisis. i am in favour.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is the ep’s contribution to the annual growth survey 2012 to be submitted by the commission to the european council on 1-2 march. the annual growth survey (ags), as proposed by the commission, is the first stage of the european semester which organizes, on an annual basis, the coordination of economic policies at eu and national level. i am in favour.
in writing. – nowadays, there is a growing trend to concentrate on our personal problems without thinking about others. however, there are people who are limited in their capabilities due to some strokes of fate. our duty is not only to accept them but to do our best to make them feel fully-fledged members of our society. by facilitating access for the blind to books we are taking the right path towards this aim. the blind should be protected and assisted by internationally binding laws and treaties; their access to books and other printed product should be facilitated to the maximum extent possible.
in writing. − the fact that the central aspects of the current commission proposal are a further reduction in the time limit for paying out to depositors, from 20 working days to 7 days, and the establishment of sound and credible deposit guarantee schemes in the eu, i.e. the deposit guarantee schemes have to be sufficiently financed, is very productive.
in writing. − in the context of the heavy burden of public debt and restraint in times of ongoing national budgetary consolidation efforts, parliament, and all the eu institutions, should show budgetary responsibility and self-restraint. by calling for a freeze on their own allowances and travel expenses, the members of this house wish to contribute actively to maintaining budgetary discipline and keeping the overall evolution of the parliament’s 2013 administrative budget under the inflation rate.
in writing. − the treaty establishing the european community provides that the ep has its official seat in both brussels and strasbourg. any amendment to this regulation, such as the introduction of a single official post, requires ratification of the amendment by all european member states. the french government will never support such a proposal. if france were to support it, however, i think most other countries would quickly join it, because, indeed, the commuting of members and staff between these two places of work is a huge and useless waste of european taxpayers' money. recent proposals to approve one official seat for the ep are now seen as a cheap attempt to curry popularity and a pretense of thrift. it is for these reasons that i supported the epp's position to vote against.
in writing. − i am confident that, to maintain the biomass of western horse mackerel at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation and to provide the highest long-term yield; the harvest control rule should be based in equal parts on precautionary advice and on recent total allowable catches, adjusted by a factor that reflects the recent trend. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the resolution parliament emphasises that the fisheries sector is an important eu industry, which provides eu citizens with high-quality food and creates economic and social added value for the european union. parliament takes the view, therefore, that the reformed cfp needs to guarantee the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the preservation of fish stocks at a healthy level, so that fishing activities can continue in their traditional areas and communities in the long term. in favour.
in writing. − finally problematic questions have been raised about the so called ‘cardinal laws’, the commission infringement proceedings against hungary regarding three of the cardinal laws, general issues about the functioning of democracy in hungary, the respect of fundamental rights and european laws, values, freedoms and principles in the complete internal restructuring of hungary under the current government. in favour.
in writing. - i voted for the epp and against the resolutions of the other political groups because i believe that the ep has created an inadequate political hysteria about the developments in hungary. i am afraid that the socialists, liberals, greens and communists are already making their judgement before the european commission and the hungarian government have had a constructive dialogue. judgments about the situation in this country should be based on facts and rational arguments, not on prejudice and emotion. of course, the situation in hungary is not perfect, but i think that prime minister orbán and his government should be given the opportunity to introduce much-needed reforms in line with eu law in a country where the previous socialist and liberal governance has had devastating consequences both economically and socially. unfortunately, this political hysteria is undermining hungarian confidence in the ep and fuelling euroscepticism. unfortunately, the epp is now in the minority with its own views.
in writing. − the s&d group expresses its hope that the march 2012 russian presidential elections will be organised in compliance with international standards. the group also expresses its serious concerns following reports of procedural violations, such as lack of media impartiality, lack of separation between party and state, and the harassment of attempts at independent monitoring. the s&d group has already called in december 2011 for an immediate and full investigation into all reports of fraud and intimidation, and the sanctioning of those found responsible. i abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the forthcoming presidential elections in russia because i believe that the european parliament must send a clear message to the russian government and the opposition that it is not indifferent to the implementation of fundamental human rights and freedoms in russia. the regime in russia is continuing to disappoint democratic institutions in europe. unfortunately, past experience does not give hope that the 2012 presidential elections in russia could be fair and democratic, as the russian government has not made any conclusions after being caught and severely punished for fraud and forgery in the state duma elections. european organisations have repeatedly expressed their hope that the forthcoming elections in russia will meet the standards of the law, and have repeatedly expressed their regret that democratic norms have not been respected. this is the practice of communicating with a country that many seem to have missed that the 21st century is fast approaching.
in writing. - i think that the resolution on the forthcoming presidential elections in russia is certainly worthy of support. we must take into account in particular the desire of many russians to achieve significant improvements in the russian electoral system, which would prevent the current practice of unfair means to achieve absolute dominance of one "necessary" party in the russian state mind, and would also create a real opportunity for vladimir putin or dmitry medvedev's alternative candidates to participate in the presidential elections and to succeed. the resolution rightly points out that a strategic partnership between the eu and russia can only be built on the basis of shared values. latvia, as a neighbour of russia, is interested in russia finally making the transition to a genuine democracy, which will not only promote closer economic relations between our countries but also perhaps pave the way for a common understanding of historical events. a democratic russia is the only way to expect the emergence of a new foreign policy doctrine in our neighbourhood that is not based on imperial ambitions and dreams of maintaining and growing power and influence in russia's neighbourhood. i must say that i regret that the reference to the need to diversify the supply of energy resources to the eu, which was included in the original draft resolution of the ecr group, has disappeared from the final version of the resolution, as has the call for the eu not to adopt double standards in its relations with russia, such as exempting from part of the provisions contained in the third energy act as a whole and focusing on ensuring free access to energy transmission and distribution networks.
in writing. − in the resolution by the gue and the greens parliament opposes the agreement between the eu and morocco on reciprocal liberalisation measures on agricultural products and fishery products, as well as any steps towards concluding free trade agreements with the countries of the mediterranean. it is also of the opinion that the conclusion of free trade agreements will adversely affect small farmers, working people and young people, as well as the environment, in both the southern mediterranean and the eu. the resolution urges the commission to initiate new negotiations with a clear mandate to meet the needs of sustainable economic and social development, food sovereignty and food security, both in morocco and in the eu countries, assuring mutual benefits and avoiding competition among producers on both sides of the mediterranean. i voted against the resolution of the gue and epp.
in writing. − the agreement is beneficial both for eu exporters and for the economic development of morocco, and in terms of poverty reduction. i voted in favour.
in writing. − brutal repression and army operations against the population have continued in syria for months. thousands of syrian citizens have been killed, wounded, detained or internally displaced, or have fled to turkey or another neighbouring country. all of this creates a humanitarian crisis in the area and constitutes a threat to regional stability in general. i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − it is important to find more common positions on key issues that will be discussed during the 19th session, notably freedom of expression on the internet, rights of the child, torture, disappearance and arbitrary detention, as well as countries’ situations: notably syria, libya, burma/myanmar and iran. i think it will be useful to speak with one voice as it will raise the visibility and influence of the eu as a global actor. i am in favour.
in writing. − blind people need legislation which provides the possibility, inside and outside the eu, to have free access, without any long procedure, to printed products for blind people; non-profit public libraries and organizations for the blind must be given rights to these printed works. i am in favour.
in writing. − i think that international trade can be a vehicle for economic growth, economic diversification and the reduction of poverty, all of which are necessary components of the democratisation of the mediterranean region. in favour.
in writing. − i agree that association agreements between the eu and its mediterranean partners should be followed and consolidated by other ambitious plans to improve and foster trade in the region – starting, as soon as possible, with the updating of the pan-euro-mediterranean rules of origin. i am, therefore, in favour.
in writing. − global monitoring for environment and security is an earth-monitoring initiative under the leadership of the eu. i am in favour.
in writing. i welcomed the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement on fiscal discipline by the 25 member states of the european union. this treaty can stabilise european monetary union in the long term and strengthen economic governance. i hope that the member states of the treaty will ratify it as soon as possible and implement it in their budgets. only then will we be able to restore the confidence of the international financial markets in the european union and create the conditions for economic growth and new jobs. the treaty complements the stability and growth pact, the recently adopted 'six pack' of eu economic governance, comprising five regulations and one directive, and the newly concluded treaty establishing the european stability mechanism. together with the forthcoming 'double-package', i.e. the regulations governing the budgetary surveillance of euro area member states, it will genuinely strengthen economic governance in europe.
in writing. − it is clear that this draft council decision aims to conclude, on behalf of the union, the agreement between the eu and iceland and norway on the application of certain provisions of the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and the 2001 protocol thereto. the agreement was signed on 19 december 2003 but it has not yet been formally concluded. the agreement should be concluded and ratified as soon as possible.
in writing. − i have always voted against waivers of the immunity of members of the european parliament, since i consider them to be disruptive of the work of the european parliament.
in writing. − the report’s idea of enabling citizens who own property in several member states, or who live in a member state other than their own, to plan their successions adequately and at lesser cost is very timely. if the report is adopted, it is obvious that, by making clearer which laws apply and when, the number of cross-border inheritance disputes will be reduced. the creation of a european certificate of succession should lead to greater legal certainty for people when writing their wills. it is a pity that ireland and the uk will not be opting in at this stage. it is important to avoid creating a system where people can ‘forum-shop’ and move to countries which have opted out in order to avoid commitments in their home member states. in general i consider the work of the rapporteur positively.
in writing. − current economic and financial crises affect women more than men. recovery projects that are under way focus on male-dominated jobs. the current gender pay gap is 17.5% even if women make up 60% of the new university graduates. electoral quotas have been successfully introduced in france, spain, belgium, slovenia, portugal and poland says the voted report and therefore it should be considered an option also for other member states. i believe that it is necessary for the commission to present an eu-wide strategy to end violence against women, including a legislative criminal law instrument.
in writing. − i supported this resolution because it is important that women in the european parliament are aware that the ideological differences of political parties and political groups should not overshadow the common goals and objectives of gender policy. women in the european parliament must unite in their fight for gender equality and women’s rights, not only outside the european parliament, but within its walls. because of our political ideologies and beliefs, we may have different political views in many areas, but working together we can achieve the important goal of improving women’s representation in the leading structures of the european parliament, such as committee chairs and the chairs of political groups.
in writing. − women are still under-represented and constitute only 24% of the members in the national parliaments, 31% at regional level and 35% at european level. the nordic countries have the highest level of elected women in the national parliaments in the eu, 42%. the rapporteur underlines the fact that the percentages are stagnating and that no positive trend can be noticed. member states should consider introducing legislative measures such as positive actions to achieve parity between sexes, the voted report says. national parties should implement quota systems in those electoral systems where applicable and apply rank ordering rules to electoral candidate lists for regional, national and eu elections. the best way of improving women’s participation in politics is to have women candidates alternating with men at the top of electoral lists. i disagree with that because i believe that the most important thing in politics is the personal qualities of the candidates. gender is not related to personal qualities.
in writing. − this report presents a review of directive 2003/72/ec supplementing regulation (ec) no 1435/2003 establishing a statute for a european cooperative society (sce), with regard to the involvement of employees, with the aim of providing for arrangements for the involvement of employees in every sce, thereby ensuring that the establishment of an sce does not entail the disappearance or reduction of the practices of employee involvement that exist within the entities participating in its creation. after reading the report i was surprised how the time of members of the european parliament can be wasted on different kind of demagogy. i abstained.
in writing. − the bologna process remains a work in progress the final objective of which is to enable any student enrolled in any european university to graduate and have the qualification thus obtained recognised throughout the european union. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the quality management of european statistics because i believe that the accuracy and reliability of statistical data is a prerequisite for responding in a timely manner to the weaknesses of individual national economies and preventing systematic risks to the financial stability of the euro area and europe. the resolution contains recommendations on how to ensure data quality, reliability, and harmonised operation of the eu statistical office and the national statistical offices by harmonising a wide range of regulations and methodologies. i believe that the likelihood of a member state publishing inaccurate or incorrect national statistics should be reduced as much as possible. the consequences of this are still being felt in greece today. it is also necessary to avoid that individual indicators, such as gdp growth, may differ significantly between member states due to different methodologies. data should be comparable and reflect the appropriate economic situation in order to address macroeconomic deficiencies in a timely manner and to develop eu fiscal policies that ensure stability and avoid downward risks. latvia's interests lie in a stable europe that can buy our goods, and a responsible budgeting policy in other countries will help to ensure this. it is with these considerations in mind that i tabled the amendment which the european parliament voted on and incorporated into the final version of its resolution.
in writing. − the report is very technical and consensual and seeks as its main objective to go from a corrective to a preventive approach in the quality management of european statistics by, among other measures, revising the european statistics code of practice, increasing cooperation between the european commission and the member states, reinforcing audit, increasing transparency and material means at eurostat. in favour.
in writing. − i agree if the objective is to help those member states most affected by the financial crisis to continue their programmes on the ground funded by the european fisheries fund (eff) so as to inject funds into the economy. to date, six countries have financial assistance under these mechanisms and have agreed with the commission a macroeconomic adjustment programme: hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland. these member states (and indeed any other member state which may be concerned in the future by such assistance programmes) should receive help to continue the implementation of the programmes funded by the eff by increasing the sums allocated to the countries concerned for the period for which they are under the support mechanisms. in order to ensure that these member states continue the implementation of the eff programmes on the ground and disburse funds to projects, the current proposal contains provisions that would allow the commission to make increased payments to these countries, for the period they are under the support mechanisms. bearing in mind that its approval is a matter of urgency, i am in favour.
in writing. − the prolonged financial and economic crisis in europe has significantly increased the pressure on national financial resources and restricted the flow of funds into the economy through cohesion programmes. the proposal for a regulation on the european fisheries fund (eff) as regards financial management in member states experiencing serious difficulties with financial stability, adopted as a matter of urgency, will allow the european commission to make increased payments to, for example, ireland, hungary, latvia, portugal, romania and greece, as long as they are covered by support mechanisms. this temporary increase will be 10% of the co-financing rates for the priority axes of the edf programmes. this proposal received the strong support of the european parliament, including my vote, despite the shortcomings that the european parliament has pointed out to the european commission.
in writing. − the proposed solution for the long-standing beef hormones dispute is in line with the request of the parliament about finding a satisfactory settlement of this dispute. it allows for the suspension of the sanctions on eu products, while guaranteeing that beef imports to the eu will be in line with eu requirements. i totally support the rapporteur.
in writing. − articles 290 and 291 of the lisbon treaty replace the old comitology procedure with a hybrid system of delegated acts and implementing acts. as existing pieces of legislation related to the eu’s commercial policy need to be aligned to this new system of delegated acts and implementing acts, the commission has come up with two proposals, omnibus i and omnibus ii. both reports are aimed at bringing trade policy-making into line with the lisbon treaty, which has granted greater powers to the parliament. parliament’s powers with regard to trade should be respected.
in writing. − the eu budget 2013 should boost growth, high-quality employment and start implementing the eu 2020 objectives. i think that the objective should be ‘jobs and growth’ rather than ‘austerity’. i fully support the rapporteur.
in writing. − the report is about the decision to set up a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. i voted in favour and i am ready to engage actively in the work of committee.
in writing. − the report states that the european parliament believes that direct contacts are the best option, that in view of the budgetary constraints, as well as the responses given by judges in the study, such training and advice could also be provided via the internet (video-conferencing, on-line courses, webstreaming) as well as by means of exchanges; it notes that judges call for further assessment and adaptation of training programmes to their needs, while they seem to prefer interactive training where they can exchange experiences and discuss case studies rather than ‘classic’ (top-down) training formulae. what is more, i think that special attention should be paid to latvian judges; they should be trained to make objective decisions without emotions or despite exposure to other factors.
in writing. − children working in cocoa fields are exposed to different health risks and this is unacceptable. it is important that different actors involved in the fight against child labour develop a holistic strategy that touches upon the root causes of the problem. the commission should look into the possibility of developing an effective system to trace goods that are produced by means of child labour. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in 2010, the united nations cocoa conference concluded the negotiations of a new international cocoa agreement, which will replace the agreement signed in 2001. the european union, being one of the largest importers of cocoa beans, is one of the main partners to this agreement. this agreement needs to be ratified by the european parliament.
in writing. − diabetes is one of the most common non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect more than 32 million eu citizens. the resolution asks for a targeted eu diabetes strategy, collection and management of diabetes epidemiological data, coordination of european diabetes research, and early diagnosis and education-based prevention campaigns. we also should draw up a financial plan to fight diabetes. in favour.
in writing. − the s&d group hopes that the announced high-level accession dialogue will help enhance reforms in five priority areas: freedom of expression, rule of law, public administration reform, the election process and the fight against corruption. what is more, i would like to discuss the name of the country because i agree with the greek delegation.
in writing. − i think that icelandic accession to the eu should be supported if the government also secures the support of the icelandic citizens.
in writing. − it is important to encourage bosnia to take further concrete steps to put the country firmly back on track towards the eu. bosnia can enter the eu only as a single country; therefore the undermining of state institutions will only deprive all its citizens from gaining the benefits of eu integration.
for the vpc/hr. mr president, first of all, thank you for all the analyses, for all the comments, for all the proposals. it has been interesting to listen to the debate and i will make sure that some of the views are conveyed to catherine ashton so that she can draw inspiration from them. i have three final points. firstly, i think that everyone in the european union shares the disappointment at what can be called the manipulation of this election, partly in the form of the non-approval of candidates, partly in the form of the lack of and unequal access to the media, partly in relation to the cases that have been found of fraud, where the outcome of the election itself has been manipulated. we have also criticised this from the eu side. it is important that we continue to criticise it in order to get the russians to hold much freer and much fairer elections. russia has committed itself - partly in relation to the council of europe and partly in relation to recommendations from the osce - to holding free and fair elections. i would like to stress that if we are to move russia from where it is now to where we want it to be, we will do so by continuing the dialogue. it is not less dialogue that is needed, it is more dialogue to enable the russians to place themselves where we want them to on this issue. at the same time, we must - and this has been part of the debate here today - be aware of the positive elements that are also part of this choice. first of all, medvedev has promised to contact the russian opposition. we think that is an expression of a hand held out. moreover, there are more international observers than ever before. in the past, there have been great difficulties in getting observers in - this time they have succeeded. it also signifies progress. civilian participation in elections in a number of areas represents progress compared with the past. the large-scale demonstrations of the people are in fact the expression of what we also know from other countries, namely a living democracy in which people also have the right and the opportunity to demonstrate. this is a new situation, and we need it. we need it to push for economic and political modernisation of russian society. we need it to connect with all parts of russian society. we must make sure that we establish and maintain contacts with russia in a number of areas. and then i think we will get far by continuing the dialogue, because as some of the speakers have also pointed out today, there are a number of international contexts in which it is absolutely crucial for russia to play a part. one of the speakers mentioned syria. iran is one example. the whole of the rio+20 debate, which we are facing, could be mentioned. so we need to draw russia ever closer to an ever-increasing democratic government. we must continue to work towards that.
in writing. – the large pro-democracy protests that we have witnessed during the past months in moscow and other major cities prove that russia is a changed country. although vladimir putin was declared the ‘winner’ of elections, which were neither free nor fair, russia’s young educated urban middle class is no longer willing to exchange economic prosperity for political freedom. they demand political reforms, rule of law and civil liberties. these people are russia’s future. the european parliament must support this russian progressive movement by strongly condemning irregularities and violations in the preparation and conduct of the presidential elections and by demanding and closely observing implementation of political system reforms, announced by the outgoing president. mr putin’s authoritarian system took more than a decade to build and will not be dismantled overnight. but in the end europe will see a modern, democratic russia as its neighbour and trustworthy partner.
mr president, we have to be more balanced regarding kazakhstan; too many emotions and too few arguments in this resolution. i call on everyone to face the truth and say that kazakhstan is a political, economic and strategical partner of the european union. the government of kazakhstan is open to dialogue. unfortunately, not so many people understand the inside situation in kazakhstan. i propose before the resolution vote to organise a wide discussion on the whole and then to make a final solution. the truth is always in the middle.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. i have four children in my family. when one of my kids gets mad at the other, the other one always goes to the third one. why is he leaving? because he has a place to go. europe's relations with belarus can actually be compared to those between children. if we are not careful, we can also drive belarus out of europe, because they have a place to go. and where is it? this is russia, where democratic expression has declined rather than increased in recent years. if we want to bring belarus closer to europe, then we have to act very carefully and wisely. we need to use both the jar and the dish. so what is a can? the commission has also proposed that the eu should not reduce but increase economic cooperation with belarus. with economic cooperation, we will make some of the population richer, we will create a wealthy layer. and we see that across north africa and in russia itself, it is precisely the middle class, the affluent middle class, that is demanding democratic change in the country. what's the latest? the basis must be political sanctions, which of course maintain the demands on the belarusian government to respect human rights. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. while i support almost all the points in this resolution, in particular the sanctions against those directly responsible for the repression of politicians and representatives of civil society in belarus, i do not think it is right to include in the resolution an item relating to the hockey championship. first, it's 2014, and there's still time to make progress instead of saying that there's nothing until 2014. and secondly, it is very important to understand that the tournament involves a lot of people in belarus sympathizers, many people who will be able to directly contact the white blooded and freely express their thoughts and to some extent pass on this information maybe not through politicians, but exactly about the situation. and it's more likely to help us. this championship will help this process we're fighting for, not hinder it. thank you.
in writing. – if someone in the european parliament wants to change the situation in the republic of belarus by pressure and dictate, then it is a way to nowhere. recently a lot has been said about freedom of speech and democratic values which are violated in belarus. behind that are standing different national and financial groups of european parliament lobbyists. nobody wants real dialogue with the current governing power in belarus. why then does the eu not talk about china, where the number of political prisoners is a hundred times higher? i do not understand those who cover their financial interests by ‘democratic values’. we become hilarious and vulnerable when, because of a bunch of political losers, we want to harm attitudes both towards the people of belarus and the important sporting event, the world ice hockey championship. i am against such an approach and i insist on the wording ‘sport beyond politics’.
in writing. − according to the rapporteur, moving towards a low carbon economy by 2050 will not only help address the major threats and challenges posed by climate change but will also significantly contribute into turning the european economy into an competitive, efficient and innovative economy able to stay at the forefront of global developments. i disagree with that statement since financial investments do not correspond to the objectives set.
in writing. − at the beginning of february, the dutch freedom party (pvv) launched an internet hotline ‘meldpunt midden en oost europeanen’, calling on people to report complaints arising from the ‘massive labour migration’ of ‘central or eastern european citizens’, in particular poles, romanians and bulgarians; people are asked, in particular, whether they have experienced any problems in terms of anti-social behaviour and whether they have lost their jobs to one of those citizens. i strongly disagree with such practices as they go against the fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and risk destroying the very basis of the union, which is pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and freedom of movement.
in writing. − the resolution 'on discriminatory websites and government responses' is certainly to be welcomed, as a situation in which a political party in a member state which holds a majority in the governing coalition openly opposes the values on which the eu is built is unacceptable. the free movement of people and labour is one of the pillars of the eu treaties, and research clearly shows that the arrival of labour from new eu member states has had a positive impact on the economies of the 'old' member states. i fully endorse the call in the resolution for the dutch government to condemn and distance itself from the actions of its partner party in initiating and maintaining an internet site targeting citizens of other eu member states. in this context, i am particularly concerned about the growing intolerance and lack of solidarity among eu member states. the eu's inability to speak as a single bloc about shared values is reducing its influence in the world and in particular in eastern europe, where russia is trying to use its weakness to maintain and increase its economic and political influence. unfortunately, the eu's and its member states' response to objective economic problems is based on two fundamentally opposite approaches: on the one hand, a rapid federalisation of the eu is promoted, often without taking account of the interests of the member states, and on the other, a narrowly nationalistically motivated view of the eu is reinforced in the member states.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i believe that it is the duty of the european parliament to give a clear and unequivocal assessment of the elections in russia, which were neither free nor fair. i believe that the principles of fair elections objective registration of candidates, free and equal access of candidates to the media, equality of voters (one citizen one vote) were grossly violated. serious irregularities were also observed in the counting of votes. i hope that after putin's election, the various democratic opposition groups in russia will unite behind a positive programme of political reform and provide russian citizens with an alternative that can be implemented in free and fair elections in the foreseeable future.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution on the results of the russian presidential elections at the european parliament plenary session in strasbourg. this proposal criticises the conduct of the elections and calls for the necessary reforms of the political system. i supported this motion for a resolution because i believe that democratic principles are of the utmost importance and that violations of human rights and universal suffrage are unacceptable. there must be no situation where the media deliberately disseminate uneven and biased information about presidential candidates, allowing any candidate to gain significant advantages. the political system needs to be reformed, including the amendment of the electoral law and the simplification of the rules for the registration of parties, giving them greater opportunities to participate in elections, so as not to restrict political competition and hence democracy.
in writing. − the european parliament takes note of the results of the presidential elections in the light of the preliminary conclusions of the osce/odihr; stresses, in full support of the modernisation agenda, which covers dialogue on both economic and political reforms with a view to introducing and implementing reforms addressing existing deficiencies, the necessity of a critical engagement with russia; strongly criticises the shortcomings and irregularities in the preparation and conduct of these elections and the fact that voters’ choice was limited; welcomes the significant civic engagement in the campaign, and calls for comprehensive and transparent analyses of all irregularities with a view to strengthening democratic rules for future elections; it also invites president medvedev to match the deed to the word and to guarantee the adoption of the necessary reforms of the political system. however, i abstained.
in writing. - i believe that the resolution 'on the results of the russian presidential elections' is certainly to be welcomed as it criticises the shortcomings and irregularities in the preparation and conduct of the elections on 4 march this year, including the fact that voters had a limited choice. the general election rules in russia are still too complex and unclear and are applied inconsistently. the resolution also calls for an analysis of open electoral irregularities in order to improve the electoral system in the future. unfortunately, the preservation of the existing system in russia is a prerequisite for its continuation of the existing foreign policy concept, which is based on imperial ambitions and dreams of maintaining and increasing power and influence in russia's neighbours. i am concerned that the not entirely legitimate results of the russian presidential election have now for many years served as the basis for the policies pursued by our neighbour latvia - both attempts to destabilise the domestic political situation and to seize economic influence, especially in the transport and energy sectors.
in writing. − the european parliament stresses the importance of the relations between the eu and kazakhstan and strengthening economic and political cooperation in all areas; it welcomes the start of the negotiations for a new agreement to replace the expired partnership and cooperation agreement. it is also necessary to take into account the national mentality and a special transitional period, including results achieved in politics and economics. i do not want the screenplay of bishkek; we should have the strongest dialogue with the kazakh authorities.
in writing. − the european parliament strongly condemns the terrorist attacks on christian communities, their belongings and symbols and the violent clashes and the resulting tragic loss of lives. i think that it is an unacceptable crime. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the oral question adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety focuses on the commission’s role in the political process leading to the 6th world water forum as well as the concrete actions the commission will propose in order to address the challenges that europe and the world, in particular developing countries, have to face in the 21st century, in order to safeguard water resources, guarantee water quality and availability worldwide and improve the communication and implementation of water goals. the draft resolution ascertains that water is a shared resource of the humankind and that access to water should constitute a fundamental and universal right. furthermore, it stresses that public health and environmental protection should be priorities for any water management policy, while addressing the role of water in economic development. as climate change and chemical and biological pollution are major contributors to the decline in the quantity and quality of water worldwide, coordinated action is needed at national, european and global level to address these challenges. i am in favour.
in writing. – i support the report which would be a big step towards gender equality and the promotion of women in economic decision-making. it calls for the elaboration and implementation of legislative measures, including quotas to increase female representation on corporate boards to 40 % by 2020. there have been discussions on whether the principle of gender quotas contradicts the principle of high professional qualifications in corporate appointments. i strongly believe that respect for gender equality and high professionalism go hand-in-hand. i am confident that responsible companies are able to appoint to their boards more women whose professional qualifications are higher than those of candidates found through the ‘old-boys networks’. figures show that progress in the area of corporate leadership has been extremely slow, despite national, european and international commitments to equality between women and men and despite the legislative and voluntary measures some countries have taken. women’s representation on the boards of europe’s largest companies is still lower than 3 %! i hope that this resolution will help to improve this shameful statistic.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. − mr president, first of all my congratulations to mrs vălean on her excellent work. it is regrettable that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs found themselves split into two equal parts when voting on their opinion for the committee on petitions. i, as rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the advisers have worked a lot in order to propose a modern approach to the issue. despite the failure of an opinion due to the final vote, i am satisfied that a number of important proposals were supported by the majority of the members of the civil liberties committee and these are as follows. the right of union citizens to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states cannot be viewed in isolation from other rights and basic principles of the european union, such as the freedom to provide services, respect for family life and social rights, as well as the mutual recognition of degrees and professional qualifications. we also urge the commission to further its analysis of the situation of inter-eu migrants and to take appropriate action to ensure that they genuinely enjoy rights as union citizens without discriminatory barriers. we call upon the commission to urge the member states to systematically bring about a just solution to the situation of stateless persons permanently residing in member states.
mr president, i am now speaking as a member of the committee on petitions and as an mep from latvia. i want to remind you of the petitions on the voting rights of non-citizens permanently residing in the member states. these petitions were not reflected in the report since they were examined either after 2010, in the case of the estonian petitions, or before 2010 for the latvian petitions. but i want to contest here, in the presence of the commissioner, the position of the commission and also the explanation just provided by mr busuttil that the problem of statelessness and deprivation of basic rights is not within the competences of the european union. i think that it is within the competence of the european union because it is discrimination on the basis of origin which is prohibited by the charter on fundamental rights.
in writing. − since this report is aimed at giving the assent of parliament to the amended constitution and rules of procedure of the international rubber study group, of which the eu has been a member since 2002, we should support it. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report calls for price transparency, guarantees in the event of airline bankruptcy, the presence of contact personnel or a contact service at airports, time limits for handling passengers’ complaints and clarification of definitions such as ‘extraordinary circumstance’ and ‘cancellation of a flight’. for people with reduced mobility and disabilities, it advocates ensuring barrier-free access and the right to be accompanied by a recognised guide or assistance dog. complete, understandable and accessible information, including on co2 emissions, is also of key importance for passengers. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the field of air passenger rights, many of the requirements of eu legislation are no longer new, they are well known and the situation has improved in recent years. however, issues such as the fees charged by airlines for the administration of payments and the use of bank payment cards, especially credit cards, for payment remain problematic and confusing. these additional charges are not included in the ticket price and passengers are not informed of them in advance when they purchase a ticket: the purchaser of these additional charges is aware of them when the ticket has already been selected and the purchase is made. therefore, airlines are encouraged to charge only the actual cost of servicing a credit card or other card, especially for credit cards. another issue is the current wide variation in the weight limits for hand baggage allowed by airlines, which are not easily understood by passengers and should therefore be harmonised. the eu should also simplify and harmonise the procedures for handling complaints, as procedures and deadlines for handling complaints currently vary from one country to another. while several of the proposals in the report, including the revision of several definitions, have already been adequately addressed at international level within the international civil aviation organisation (icao), overall the guiding principle of the report on the respect and application of air passengers' rights, namely the continued need for both stronger oversight of air carriers and the development of clearer and stricter rules, is supportive and correct.
in writing. − in this report parliament decides to defend the immunity of mr luigi de magistris. i think meps’ immunity should not be waived until a serious crime has been committed. mr de magistris is accused of libel. i think we need him to be able to work effectively in the european parliament. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report is on parliament’s decision not to defend the immunity of mr luigi de magistris. i abstained.
in writing. − at present only 10 member states take part in resettlement (the transfer of refugees from outside the eu to a member state). the aim is to get more member states involved in the resettlement effort as well as to increase the amount member states receive per resettled refugee. it is therefore proposed that the erf decision should be amended, so that member states which resettle according to the common eu annual priorities would receive financial assistance if they pledge to resettle refugees who fall within the specific categories. in favour.
in writing. − i believe it is important to move ahead swiftly with the agreed changes in order to both implement international security obligations and ensure the competitiveness of european exporters. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is very timely report, since the regulation is solid and exhaustive towards financial firms and well calibrated in relation to non-financial firms and pension funds. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report concerns only the commission proposal on the extension of the transposition deadline of the 2004 directive on electromagnetic fields, which expires on 30 april 2012. it does not deal with the new directive on minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). as progress in council on the new directive is slow, the existing deadline for the 2004 directive had to be prolonged. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is a very technical report which aims to increase administrative simplification and replace the manual and semi-automated exchange of information by a fully-computerised system. the proposal should help the aim of limiting tax avoidance. in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution and particularly support the strong position of parliament that the number of seats in parliament should be reduced, that is, that the work of members and officials should be carried out in the same place. the council must take account of the repeated demands of parliament and the eu public to establish a single post for parliament's members and officials. strasbourg is a symbol of the harmony of the european nations. but it must not become a symbol of the wastefulness of the european union's institutions, especially at a time when one of the most important tasks for all europe is to balance expenditure against revenue. the eur 200 million per year required to maintain the various seats of the parliament is not a justifiable and explainable expense for european citizens.
in writing. − i believe that, in the light of the heavy burden of public debt and restraint in times of ongoing national consolidation efforts, parliament should show budgetary responsibility and self-restraint. we wish to contribute actively to maintaining budgetary discipline and keeping the overall evolution of parliament’s administrative budget for 2013 below that of the inflation rate. in favour.
in writing. − the application relates to 1 138 redundancies that occurred in spain in 513 small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction industry between july 2010 and march 2010. in favour.
in writing. − parliament is now a co-legislator, with powers at the same level as those of the council in the ordinary legislative and budget procedures. i therefore agree that there is no longer any need for council question time to be included on the agenda every part-session, as is the case at the moment. the conference of presidents does, however, take the view that question hours with the president of the commission, the vice-president/high representative and the president of the eurogroup should continue to be an option.
in writing. − in the resolution parliament continues to condemn strongly the deteriorating situation as regards human rights and fundamental freedoms combined with the lack of deep democratic and economic reforms in belarus, demands the unconditional and immediate release of all political prisoners, and calls on the belarusian authorities to abolish the death penalty for all crimes and to adopt an immediate moratorium on the imposition and execution of the death penalty.
in writing. − i support the intention to set up a semi-autonomous entity which could support democracy activists and democratic developments around the world in an unbureaucratic way and which would not be directly associated with eu diplomacy or the commission.
in writing. − i believe that serbian candidate status is the most important step so far in the european integration process of serbia and puts the country firmly on the path towards accession. however, a lot of work lies ahead. in favour.
in writing. − belgrade and pristina should continue the dialogue and find the best solutions for the daily lives of their citizens. i think the report should be more critical towards kosovo. i voted against.
in writing. − i think that the need to address problems in the judicial system and improve the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms are of key importance in turkey’s approximation to the eu. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is very worrying to see that in montenegro, an eu candidate country, assaults on journalists are on the rise. these have to be treated as attacks against montenegrin society as a whole as they undermine the development of a meaningful democracy. i support the rapporteur.
in writing. − i disagree with the epp rapporteur because i think that the crisis should be dealt with by bringing in fair and sustainable corporate governance measures – in particular binding rules on issues such as worker participation and gender balance. i voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the eib is one of the most important european instruments for supporting the real economy and it has a leading role in reviving the european economy and supporting growth and job creation.
in writing. − this own-initiative report analyses the eu citizenship report 2010 on ‘dismantling the obstacles to eu citizens’ rights’ published by the commission. the commission has consulted civil society and has listed the most important obstacles that citizens face in the exercise of their rights across borders. in total, 25 points have been highlighted and the commission puts forward solutions to help private individuals, consumers, residents, students, tourists and professionals or political actors. my group insisted strongly on respect for values as defined by the charter of fundamental rights, criticising for instance the mass expulsions on the basis of ethnic or national origin. in favour.
in writing. – we should not only monitor obligations and rules governing adherence to human rights in the eu but take into account the specificities of separate countries. for example, in latvia the parliament by recommendation of the government decided to increase the retirement age of latvians just because of lack of funds in the social budget while ignoring the fact that, if latvians retire at the age of 65 then the majority of them will not live to retirement age because the average age is 68 years for men in latvia. what is more, after 55 it is very difficult to find a decent and well-paid job. i think that step by the latvian government and parliament violates the fundamental rights and freedoms of latvian people since they are subject to unequal conditions in comparison to pensioners in france, germany and other eu countries, where the average life duration is 80 years old, and the retirement age is 65. it means that on average throughout the eu a pensioner receives a pension for 15 years, but in latvia from one to three years. to stop injustice it is necessary to take immediate measures on the reallocation of eu social funds in order to level the difference in pensions between old member states and new member states.
in writing. − the present update focuses mainly on the social security of self-employed workers and aircrew members. we have ensured that the applicable legislation for aircrew members will remain stable and that the ‘home base’ principle will not result in frequent changes of applicable legislation due to the industry’s work patterns or seasonal demands. i voted in favour.
in writing. − member states agreed to start proceedings paving the way for accession of the eu to the treaty of amity and cooperation in southeast asia in july 2006. however, the treaty should first be amended in order to allow the accession of non-state entities. i consider it to be controversial so i abstained.
in writing. − the heads of state or government agreed to take a decision in the european council in june 2009 in order to provide reassurance and to respond to the concerns of the irish people on the treaty of lisbon concerning the right to life, family and education, taxation, and security and defence. the heads of state or government had already agreed on the substance of the provisions proposed in the draft protocol, meaning the issue has already been politically settled. therefore this decision does not seem to justify convening a convention. i abstained.
in writing. − the report expresses a positive opinion with regard to a european council decision in favour of examining the proposed amendments to the treaties. i abstained from voting on that issue since i believe that more analysis is needed.
in writing. − i think it is necessary to take into account the specificities of outermost regions in designing the future cohesion policy. these regions are subject to permanent particularities and constraints arising mainly from their remoteness and which justify the adoption of specific measures by the european union. this relates primarily to latgale, the eastern latvian region which latvian politicians remember only on the eve of elections.
in writing. − in order to be a credible actor in external relations, the eu must act consistently and in accordance with its treaty and acquis obligations. there is a need for the eu to avoid double standards between its human rights policy and other external policies, between its internal and external policies, and in the conduct of its relations with third countries. furthermore the drafting of future annual reports should take a more systematic approach, which should include the use of benchmarks for individual countries. it is also necessary to achieve swift, transparent and inclusive progress towards an ambitious final eu common strategy for human rights, which should include clear actions, timetables and responsibilities. i voted in favour.
in writing. − we are interested in developing closer relations with azerbaijan, a strategically important country of the eastern neighbourhood. however, in order to deepen these relations, azerbaijan should effectively address concerns about the deteriorating situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the country. i totally agree with the rapporteur and i voted in favour.
in writing. − as a shadow rapporteur i welcome the progress made by armenia in negotiations on the association agreement and the calls on it to deepen reforms in order to fulfil the european aspirations of the armenian people. it is necessary to develop the negotiation process with azerbaijan and endeavour to resolve the problems by diplomatic means only. i voted in favour.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the members for a very substantive and serious debate. i will respond on behalf of the commission on some of the key questions. as we were asked what we will take from this debate, i can say that i am fully aware that europe is living through very tough times in terms of employment and the problems of unemployment, and in terms of growth or lack of growth. this has been very clearly reflected in all the speeches in your debate today. from our side i want to underline that it would be very important to try to avoid an excessively ideological debate on fiscal consolidation. it is clear that, as seen in the past three or four years, the level of public debt in europe has increased from around 60% to around 90% of gdp. it is hampering growth and causing problems for sustainable growth and employment. therefore we need a dual strategy, which we are working on. we need both fiscal consolidation and sustainable growth for the sake of sustainable development. overall – not least thanks to the six-pack, the new economic governance and your support for this new framework for economic governance – we are getting results as regards fiscal consolidation in the euro area and in the whole european union, which is a necessary condition for sustainable growth and job creation. in the next few weeks we will assess the economic and fiscal policy stance of the euro area and the union as a whole on the basis of the latest information from eurostat and our forthcoming spring forecast. then it will be the right time to analyse and decide what is the best way to strike the right balance between consolidation and growth in europe. this is a very important debate for the whole euro area (not only for certain countries), and therefore we are pursuing this debate and are currently making the necessary preparations. i very much look forward to continuing this discussion with the parliament in the coming weeks. what do we need for sustainable growth? we need investment, even under the constraints of fiscal consolidation we are currently facing. let me refer here to what the commission proposed in the annual growth survey at the end of last year. we put forward a very investment-oriented multifinancial framework. last year we proposed project bonds in order to stimulate investment, and just before easter we had a breakthrough when the council endorsed this. i want to ensure that we can start the first concrete projects moving in the course of the coming months – this summer – in order to have investment in infrastructure, energy, transport and communication, which means sustainable employment for europe. i want to thank you for your very concrete support for the objective of project bonds. we have called for reinforcement of the capital base of the european investment bank, which is a very powerful instrument of the european union for supporting growth and employment. but, as you know, it is reaching the limits of what it can do with its current capital base, and therefore, in order to allow the eib to do more for growth and jobs, its capital needs must be addressed. its capital base needs to be increased, and this should be done by its shareholders and by the eu member states. for instance, a capital increase of eur 10 billion would allow the eib to lend approximately eur 60 billion which, in turn, would attract other financing sources for a total investment of eur 180 billion for new projects. let me therefore send a very clear and constructive message to all the member states. for the sake of sustainable growth and job creation, we need more european cross-border and community investment in infrastructure, energy, transport, innovation, research and communication. therefore i call on them to provide additional capital for the eib and on you to support this objective with the member states. we need to intensify our work in employment policy. today my colleague lászló andor presented to us a very comprehensive and ambitious package on employment policy covering several areas, including putting the emphasis on the urgent need to focus on efforts on the demand side of job creation. this means encouraging the member states to take steps that create the right conditions for job creation and labour demand. the package also looks at the major structural challenges facing europe – to which ms cornelissen referred in her speech – such as the move towards a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy, the demographic ageing of our societies and rapid technological change. here we have identified the green economy, information and communication technologies and health services as the three areas that generate the most job opportunities in europe. for instance, the green economy alone is expected to create over 20 million jobs in the next ten years, of course on the condition that we can pursue and intensify investment along the lines i described, for instance by using the european investment bank as an instrument. there were several questions relating to many of the member states. i would just draw your attention to our communication today on promoting growth and jobs in greece, which very clearly underlines that europe stands by greece in its efforts to reform its economy and administration. today’s communication is about sending a strong signal that greece can make it, together with its european partners. greece can relaunch growth and restore its competitiveness. greece can reform its tax system to make it more effective, fair and just. it can also reform its public administration. with regard to italy and spain, which were referred to in several speeches, i would like to underline the fact that both countries – italy and spain – have taken and are taking effective and determined action on fiscal consolidation as well as growth-boosting structural reforms, which over time will help build confidence in the economies of italy and spain. in this context, it is essential – indeed it is crucial – that the european partners of italy and spain –the member states, the commission, the parliament and the other eu institutions – all support these countries and stay united behind italy and spain in order to help them to overcome their challenges. on the issue of the mutualisation or the joint issuance of public debt – to which ms berès and mr tremosa i balcells referred – after the difficult decision on the reinforcement of the euro area financial firewalls was taken just two weeks ago by the euro group, now is the time to focus on the next steps to elaborate how we can make concrete progress in this very important field. that is why the commission presented the green paper a few months ago. we have received feedback on that and will shortly be providing you with information on the results of the consultation before making our proposal on the basis of this consultation. this is also why the new economic governance is so crucial and essential, because any form of partial joint issuance of public debt which would help to stabilise the european economy is only acceptable in europe for many member states if they can be certain that fiscal prudence and economic sustainability are ensured and guaranteed. that is the job of the new economic governance we have created together. i can see that the further reinforcement of economic governance on the one hand and consideration of steps towards partial joint issuance of public debt on the other move very much in parallel, hand in hand. mr president, honourable members, let me thank you for this debate. the commission is always here for constructive, critical, substantive and serious debate with you. you can rest assured that the commission defends a very ambitious policy agenda of sustainable growth and job creation in europe. but we also need the eu member states on board for this, and i count on your support, because this is what really matters to our citizens. sustainable growth, job creation and employment really matter to our citizens in europe.
in writing. every time a directive extending the single market is discussed in the ep, the members have fought bitterly over the wording that would allow some member states to continue, in a hidden form, to restrict the unity of the market. the compromise reached in the end is not a major improvement but a small step forward. this armor-bearer attitude is holding back the eu's global competitiveness. we must realise that with national protectionism we lose the most important time in controlling and preventing each crisis. for example, the question of labour mobility. there are currently four million vacancies in europe. yet, people are reluctant to move to where the work is. this is due to language and cultural barriers, as well as to the different tax, pension and social security systems in the member states. among the 20 main problems facing european citizens in the single market identified by the commission, uncertainty about the different social security systems and healthcare costs, recognition of and discrimination against professional qualifications, calculation and collection of taxes, difficulties opening bank accounts and even car registration are at the top. businesses still have very little involvement in public procurement in other eu countries, where they suffer from unnecessarily complicated registration procedures, vat non-payment. i believe that unlocking the potential of the european single market is critical to boosting growth and jobs. without active and determined action by the member states, it will not.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think that one of the main tasks we have in europe today is to ensure economic growth. i know at least one european politician who, with his initiatives, actually hopes to completely destroy economic growth by offering a 75% tax rate. this legislative initiative seems to me to be going in the opposite direction. this would actually boost economic growth, not slow it down. what's the situation? in europe today, any company operating in more than one member state has to deal with different tax systems in each member state. it's time, it's money, it's costs. this legislative initiative would simplify all this and allow companies to rely on a single national tax system, where, if taxes were payable, that member state would distribute the money according to a formula among the other member states in which the company is established. so, colleagues, we must not go in the direction that would hinder business development, that would hinder economic growth. we need to go in that direction, to do everything we can to promote economic growth in the european union. this legislative initiative is precisely one that would also help to achieve this objective. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the european parliament (ep) will provide greater legal certainty for both european passengers and airlines by approving the eu-us agreement on the use of air passenger data to combat terrorism and serious transnational crime. the european people's party (epp) supports the entry into force of this agreement. this will be a major achievement, as the transfer of air passenger data to the us has been a 'hot spot' in eu-us relations for years. the commission has also concluded that the airport services agreement between the united states and the european union is compatible with the internal market. as we know, the ep de facto rejected the previous version of the agreement in may 2010, asking the european commission to renegotiate data protection rules with the us to reflect the concerns expressed in ep resolutions. although the current version of the document contains significant improvements in data protection and cooperation with us security authorities, such as a clear definition of the scope and duration of data retention, there was a very intense debate on this contentious issue in the ep's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. and the deal is not great. but better with this than without. the eu-australia agreement on access to passenger name records is considered to be a very good example to follow. the eu is also working to improve the quality of its services, including the provision of electronic communications services.
in writing. − these voluntary partnership agreements are a cornerstone of the eu’s action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade. they establish partnerships with timber-producing and exporting countries aimed at halting illegal logging, promoting sound forest governance and ensuring that only legally-harvested timber reaches the eu market. i am sure the agreements are a partnership tool for improving forest governance. partner countries and the commission will thus need to devote sufficient attention to effective and timely enforcement. i voted in favour.
in writing. − these voluntary partnership agreements are a cornerstone of the eu’s action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade. they establish partnerships with timber-producing and exporting countries aimed at halting illegal logging, promoting sound forest governance and ensuring that only legally-harvested timber reaches the eu market. i am sure the agreements are a partnership tool for improving forest governance. partner countries and the commission will thus need to devote sufficient attention to effective and timely enforcement. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions concerning the risk-sharing instrument for member states with financial stability problems. the regulation applies to those european union countries which receive financing from international lenders. it provides for the possibility for member states to receive additional resources which they can no longer mobilise because of the economic downturn and the collapse of the banking sector, for structural and cohesion fund projects. i have been active in the development of this regulation and was responsible, within the group of the european people's party (epp), for the preparation of the opinion on this regulation, which was submitted to the committee on economic and monetary affairs, of which i am a member. working with the other political groups, i found that all the amendments i had tabled were supported in the committee voting process.
in writing. − the purpose of this amendment is to help those member states most affected by the financial crisis to continue with the implementation of programmes under the structural and cohesion funds. with the financial and economic crisis increasing the pressure on national financial resources and member states consolidating their budgets, a smooth implementation of cohesion policy programmes is a tool for injecting funds into the economy. in reality some countries are forgiven their debts while others have to pay them back with interest.
in writing. − the resolution states that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement complies with eu data protection legislation and thus as to whether it is compatible with the eu treaties. i voted against.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's legislative resolution on the conclusion of an agreement between the us and the eu, as i believe it is necessary to be able to detect, investigate and combat terrorism and other serious transnational crimes more effectively. this agreement is of equal importance to us and eu law enforcement authorities, as it provides that the us must share with eu law enforcement authorities the information in their possession obtained from the passenger name record (pdr). at the same time, this agreement provides for strict rules on the cases in which pdr data may be used and the period for which such data may be stored, so as not to infringe the rights of the individual. however, if citizens suspect that their personal data is being misused, any eu citizen will be able to take legal action and ask the us department of homeland security to delete or correct personal data if it is inaccurate. i therefore believe that the protection of private data of citizens is ensured and that personal data will be used only for the purpose of strengthening and ensuring national security.
in writing. − the report concerns the consent procedure on the eu-us agreement on the processing and transfer of passenger name record data to the us for the fight against terrorism and serious crime. the report recommends that the european parliament give its consent to eu-us agreement. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i did not support the resolution on the proposal for a council directive on the common consolidated corporate tax base, because in its current form it is not beneficial for the latvian economy. the directive provides for the possibility for undertakings to consolidate their profits or losses by establishing a tax base which is allocated accordingly between the countries in which the undertaking operates. the tax base allocated is subject to the corporate income tax rate of the country concerned. in the version proposed by the commission, member states may introduce and provide for such corporate tax arrangements for companies under their jurisdiction. in parliament, this directive was amended to make it compulsory for member states to introduce this new tax regime. as it has not been examined and there is a lot of uncertainty about the impact of the introduction of the new tax regime on the latvian economy and tax revenues, i believe that the resolution is not to be supported. in addition, this directive has brought latvia closer to harmonising tax rates, which is unacceptable if we want to maintain latvia's competitiveness in the field of taxation.
in writing. − since the legislative proposal provides for a common consolidated corporate tax base, it means that companies and groups of companies operating in the internal market will be given the possibility to fill in a single tax file, effectively reducing red tape. the revenue from the tax will be allocated among the member states through an apportionment formula which takes into account three factors: employment, assets and sales. i voted in favour.
in writing. - i do not think that the proposal for a council directive on the common base for consolidated corporate income tax is acceptable. the right of member states to set different corporate tax rates, as well as to differ on what is directly levied, is one way of achieving fair competition within the eu countries. member states that have joined the euro area or pegged their currencies to the euro are no longer able to use monetary instruments to increase their competitiveness. thus, a favourable tax regime is almost the only way for the new eu member states to create conditions for faster economic growth than in the member states with high levels of capital accumulation. although parliament's position stresses that the new system will not affect the level of tax rates, it clearly shows a commitment to moving towards ever closer fiscal alignment in the eu. the commission is also proposing to amend the draft directive on the introduction of a common eu corporate income tax base, which explicitly sets out the principle of voluntariness. instead, european companies that are multinational by definition are expected to join the new system within two years of the member states applying the provisions of the new directive. for undertakings other than small and medium-sized enterprises, this directive should apply within five years of its entry into force, while the commission is empowered to assess whether it should also become mandatory for smes.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal for a council directive which aims to change the taxation of energy products in the european union. i think it's an inappropriate time to discuss tax increases. although the commission's proposal envisages the introduction of an environmentally friendly taxation system, the potential changes are too rapid and the european union industry would not be able to adapt to them in such a short time. i have been involved in the process of discussing this directive since the day parliament started working on it. during the negotiations on the necessary amendments, i took the firm position that this directive is only acceptable if it does not lead to an increase in taxes on energy products and latvian taxpayers do not have to pay more for them than they do now. in the european union as a whole, such changes in tax legislation would also send a bad signal to industry and could change the energy taxation structures of individual countries. latvia has stable export markets in its interest and does not want to see rapid changes in taxation.
in writing. − to reshape green taxation, the right incentives and schemes – sparing households – were introduced. i supported the report.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal to harmonise the rules on the taxation of energy products and electricity has been a highly controversial issue, with sharply diverging national and industrial interests. the epp managed to reach very good compromise amendments with the other political groups. however, if the proposal were to come into force, an increase in fuel prices would be inevitable. this is unacceptable at a time when many european countries are trying to recover economically from the effects of the global crisis. i believe that this would be a very heavy burden for the 'short-term' entrepreneurs, which would also have a negative impact on inflation overall. maintaining price stability is essential for countries aiming to join the euro area as soon as possible and seeking to meet the maastricht criteria. i therefore followed the eesc recommendations when voting on the proposals, but i voted against the commission proposal as a whole, in line with the opinion of our delegation.
in writing. − up to eur 1 trillion in potential tax revenue in the eu is lost every year because of tax evasion. i think the member state governments could repay all public debt within eight to nine years with resolute action against tax evasion. with an additional sum of eur 200 billion, the eu could increase public investment from the current 2.7% of gdp to a realistic target of 3.5% within a few years. i am in favour.
author. − mr president, i welcome the opportunity for this house to discuss the important issue of border security, be it body scanners, pnr or border agencies. this opportunity to debate standards on security and border efficiency in europe is one that should be continued as a priority. since this house adopted in 2004, and subsequently reviewed, the regulation on standards for security features and biometrics in passports and travel documents, it is clear that several questions have emerged as regards flaws in the systems and potential security implications. i would like to ask the commission whether or not its research has shown the system to create higher levels of security and ease of travel, and whether it has proven to be effective and cost efficient. more importantly, i would like also to ask the commission what initiatives it has taken to combat the increasing problems of cross-border fraud, identity theft, and loss of biometric passports. both europol and member states’ authorities have cited stolen passports as one of the most significant security threats we face. the final issue is this: is technology changing rapidly enough for biometric passports to keep ahead of the technical abilities of sophisticated criminals perpetrating fraud, and is a biometric system being backed up with the necessary level of border checks in order to make sure that europe’s borders are as impenetrable as possible to criminals?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are extremely satisfied that the studies, as the commissioner has said, are in progress. regulation (ec) no 2252/2004 is to be amended and we are happy that ms malmström has just expressed the very same opinion. i will allow myself to return to history and self-citation. the greens as a group are of the opinion that the commission proposal to introduce two biometric identifiers lacks crucial information on important points such as costs, proportionality, added value and security. for us it is clear that such an introduction could represent a threat to security through the risks of abuse, technological flaws and lack of transparency and data protection. this was said in this parliament on 1 december 2004 and, as we see now, it was providential. we are very thankful to mr coelho for initiating this question and the debate.
chairman! in my view, the european union has in recent years promoted policies that support biodiversity in our europe, preventing certain cultures, plants and species from becoming over-extinct or extinct. however, the existing import conditions allow other countries outside the european union to export their production to the european union, including those containing gmos and pesticides and herbicides banned in europe. this is supporting the spread of gmos and harmful chemicals in our europe. much stricter rules and restrictions on the use and export of gmos are needed. for my part, i can say that in my country, latvia, 90% of all municipalities have declared their areas free of gmos.
in writing. − iter is an international nuclear fusion research and engineering project which aims to make the long-awaited transition from experimental studies of plasma physics to full-scale electricity-producing fusion power plants. thermonuclear reactors are safer than nuclear reactors in terms of radioactivity. the extra financial needs for iter in 2012 and 2013 which will be made available in due time by using unused margins without jeopardizing other research programs is the most important point. the ep must remain vigilant as to the sources of funding within the budget procedure 2013 to ensure that iter is not financed to the detriment of other polices necessary to achieve the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the modernisation of european higher education systems must encourage people from different age groups and from all social strata to avail themselves of the opportunity to further their education and knowledge in order to enable the eu to meet the challenges of the 21st century. it would be also useful to explain where and when funds will be granted. anyone can make promises. in general, i am in favour.
in writing. − i supported the motion for a resolution on a competitive digital single market because i believe that e-government offers a wide range of opportunities to improve and modernise public services for both businesses and citizens, and would also allow much more efficient and transparent procurement processes within public administration, for example. the increasing importance of the electronic environment in everyday processes and the potential for improving the productivity of people and businesses through its development require that e-government services be available to as many people as possible and that services such as e-signatures and e-invoicing be developed as quickly as possible, while ensuring that those who, for example, have limited or no access to the internet, are not affected. i believe that a secure and sustainable system is needed to promote growth and competitiveness for all of europe.
in writing. − digital services, such as e-government, give great opportunities to improve and modernise public services for citizens and companies and to increase the efficiency and transparency of government activity. digital technologies have a bright future. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the resolution the european parliament condemns the military coup in mali and the suspension of its republican institutions; welcomes the signing of the framework agreement providing for a series of steps aimed at restoring constitutional order; urges all the malian stakeholders concerned to implement this agreement immediately; commends the action taken by ecowas, the african union, the united nations and neighbouring countries with a view to facilitating mali’s rapid return to constitutional order and initiating concrete measures designed to protect its sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity; takes note of the outcome of the conference held in ouagadougou on 14 and 15 april 2012 under the auspices of burkinabe president blaise compaoré, the mediator appointed by ecowas, and hopes that the timetable and detailed arrangements for the transition will swiftly be clarified further. we should do everything we can to stop the conflict. this resolution is the beginning. i am in favour.
in writing. − in the resolution, the european parliament welcomes the transparent and credible conduct of the by-elections of 1 april, deemed to be free by international observers, while noting the reported irregularities in the run-up to the poll; trusts that the newly elected parliamentarians will take up their duties as soon as possible; supports the authorities in their efforts to guarantee that the reform process is sustainable and irreversible; expresses its great respect for the long struggle over decades of opposition leader and sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi, congratulates her on her party’s victory in the april by-elections and applauds her courage and tenacity as an example of selfless courage and struggle for freedom and democracy in the face of tyranny; urges the burmese government to introduce amendments to the 2008 constitution, prior to the 2015 elections, that would remove the military’s role in civilian politics. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament deplores the decision taken by the argentine government, disregarding a negotiated solution, to proceed with the expropriation of the majority of shares of a european company; maintains that this represents a unilateral and arbitrary decision which entails an attack on the exercise of free enterprise and the principle of legal certainty, thus causing the investment environment for eu businesses in argentina to deteriorate; notes that this decision affects only one undertaking in the sector and only part of its shares, which could be considered discriminatory; urges the european commission and the council to explore and adopt any measures required to safeguard european interests in order to avoid such situations arising again, including the possible partial suspension of the unilateral tariff preferences. i would call things by their real names. the government of argentina is trying to rob a european company of its property. more strict wording and sanctions are necessary. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report defends the decentralisation of aid delivery from commission headquarters to eu delegations in order to make it more operationally efficient and to improve coordination and harmonisation among donors. i am not sure that it will be efficient. i abstained.
in writing. − many still regard climate change as a purely scientific and/or technical issue. however, since societies still largely rely on gendered roles and responsibilities, women and men do not have the same impact on climate change and – more importantly – are differently affected by climate change. the inclusion of gender issues provides an opportunity to make the fight against climate change stronger, fairer and more effective. therefore, the mainstreaming of the issue has to be based on addressing the inequality and tackling its causes, principally by increasing women's financial independence and their means of emancipation within the communities. finally, it is essential to collect gender disaggregated data which will make the decision-making better. the report was widely regarded as very good, as it stresses that measures to protect women in already critical situations should complement each other.
in writing. − biodiversity is crucial for the functioning of ecosystems which provide us with products and services without which we could not live. biodiversity loss is one of the most serious global environmental threats alongside climate change, and the two are closely linked. statistics illustrate that biodiversity losses are continuing at alarming rates in the eu and worldwide, despite the fact that the importance of biodiversity is widely acknowledged. urgent action is needed, and the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 looks at the necessary measures to secure nature and ecosystem services for future generations. biodiversity should be included into all eu policies. our support is necessary for the achievement of the targets in the next multiannual financial framework and for the phasing out of harmful subsidies. as major european policies are currently under review, the timing is right. i voted in favour since this report is really useful.
in writing. − a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are prerequisites for guaranteeing the quality of life as well as preserving the stability of the ecosystems. environmental action programmes have guided the development of eu environment policy and they should continue to do so through the 7th environmental action programme, which will provide for an overarching framework that makes it possible to deal with both persistent and emerging environmental and sustainability challenges. i voted in favour.
in writing. – one of the basic unjustified sources of profit is the likely collusion of eu mobile network operators aimed at getting extra profit, since there is heavy competition between operators on the internal markets of eu member states. in order to eliminate the fraud and cheating it is necessary to draft very strict legislation with the highest possible fines, going up to the withdrawal of the mobile operator’s licence, because high roaming tariffs influence the growth of the economy in europe. an analysis of all roaming contracts needs to be made in the very near future and the system of a wrong attitude towards consumers demolished.
mr president, today we celebrate the day of victory over nazism, but in latvia there are other heroes. i have spoken in parliament many times about the day of commemoration in latvia of the establishment of the latvian waffen ss. it seems that no one listened to me. however, today this idea of the glorification of nazism continues in latvia. you can buy this calendar for the year 2012 openly in latvian shops. nobody cares that the heroes of these posters are military criminals. we must put a stop to these days when the latvian waffen ss is commemorated. i would like to present this calendar personally to the president.
in writing. − this draft legislative resolution is aimed at the implementation of wto recommendations so that eu legislation is in line with agreements with the wto. i think that we should cooperate in this dimension more efficiently.
in writing. − as russia became a member of the wto in december last year, the eu no longer has the right to apply steel imports quotas on such products from russia. this regulation brings eu legislation into line with russia’s wto accession. the commission estimates that this will be worth approximately eur 107 million per year in exports and that the competitiveness of the eu steel sector will be increased due to the reduction of export duties. i support russia’s accession to the wto and hope it will stand by the commitments it has given in that regard.
in writing. − the proposal suggests that electronic publication of the eu’s official journal is consistent with actual publication of the official journal and that the electronic version is considered as the official, updated and full version. in exceptional cases and temporary unforeseen disruptions of the electronic issue, the printed version will have legal force.
in writing. − corneliu vadim tudor, a member of the european parliament, is accused of threatening a bailiff and some police officers, committing acts of violence against them, insulting them and generally attempting to obstruct the execution of a legal decision in the context of the eviction of the românia mare party from its premises in bucharest on 4 january 2011. as mr tudor did not avail himself of the opportunity to explain to the competent committee his request for the defence of his immunity, parliament has decided not to defend the immunity and privileges of corneliu vadim tudor. i voted against since i respect people who are ready to oppose the lawlessness of authorities. in general, i am against making immunity a matter of bargaining between parliament and eu member states.
in writing. − regional aviation plays a key role in boosting the regions’ competitiveness and promoting territorial cohesion within europe, especially as far as the outermost and underdeveloped regions are concerned. there is a need for a public service obligation for air services which are not economically viable. however, a balanced approach to revision of the aviation guidelines is needed. the report warns against a ‘proliferation’ of new regional airports which could result in an economic burden for the regions opting to have one without having sufficient traffic to feed it. it will send a strong impulse to the commission to revise certain aspects linked to regional aviation in europe in order to make regional airports and the services they provide more attractive to passengers.
in writing. − the commission bears ultimate responsibility for the execution of the eu budget. i think that here are the challenges of the budget execution within the shared management between the commission and the member states. the commission and the member states should work together to decrease the error rate in cohesion policy and other big spending areas of the eu budget by making their monitoring and control systems more effective.
in writing. − the european court of auditors publishes every year more than a dozen of the so-called ‘special reports’ that focus on very specific policy issues and topics. in producing these reports, the court uses the performance audit approach to analyse the effectiveness of particular policies and programmes. the court’s recommendations are taken into account by parliament during its discharge exercise. more efficient work in this direction is necessary. i voted in favour.
in writing. − bogusław liberadzki focused the discharge report for 2010 as much as possible on the budget implementation for that year (previous rapporteurs have tried to expand the scope of the discharge report far beyond budget implementation for the year in question, to include wider budget issues and call into question projects or initiatives agreed by the bureau). a very good job, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the biggest concern of the s&d group is that the european development funds do not come under the budget of the european union and therefore cannot be fully scrutinised in the same way as other expenditure. i think that ‘budgetisation’ of the european development funds is necessary.
in writing. − parliament scrutinises its own budget implementation and i support the idea of getting to the position where there is an equivalent process for the council’s spending. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i think that the european court of justice should be granted budget discharge.
in writing. − there were some amendments tabled criticising the european court of auditors (eca) for its failure to carry out certain tasks in respect of the agencies. i do not think that the discharge report for the eca is the right place to raise these questions. i voted in favour of granting budget discharge to the eca.
in writing. − the european economic and social committee has made good progress in improving its systems of payments to members for their attendance at sessions in brussels, and the common services arrangement with the committee of the regions offers efficiencies when compared to having two totally separate administrations. i believe that the outstanding investigations will soon be concluded and that these matters will be fully clarified by the time of the next discharge exercise. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i am in favour of granting the committee of the regions budget discharge.
in writing. − i am in favour of granting budget discharge to the european ombudsman.
in writing. − the european data protection supervisor did a good job and i am in favour of granting him budget discharge.
in writing. − the agencies of the european union have a vital importance in terms of delivering the goals and results of eu policies. the agencies represent less than 1 % of the eu budget. i support the agencies as they help make our food safer, our environment cleaner and our planes and flights safer and more secure. this is clearly of benefit to eu citizens.
in writing. − the translation centre plays an important role in the work of the bodies of the european union. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european centre for the development of vocational training is very important for implementation of the eu’s social policy. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i support the fisheries control agency since it makes our food safer and the environment cleaner. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european aviation safety agency helps to maintain a high level of aviation safety. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the mission of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) is to identify, assess and communicate current and emerging threats to human health posed by infectious diseases. i think the ecdc is functioning efficiently; therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european chemicals agency (echa) is the driving force among regulatory authorities in implementing the eu’s groundbreaking chemicals legislation for the benefit of human health and the environment, as well as for innovation and competitiveness. the echa helps companies to comply with legislation, advances the safe use of chemicals, provides information on chemicals and addresses chemicals of concern. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the task of the european environment agency is to provide sound, independent information on the environment for those involved in developing, adopting, implementing and evaluating environmental policy, and also the general public.
in writing. − the european food safety agency (efsa) is the keystone of european union (eu) risk assessment regarding food and feed safety. in close collaboration with national authorities and in open consultation with its stakeholders, efsa provides independent scientific advice and clear communication on existing and emerging risks.
in writing. − the european institute for gender equality is an eu agency which supports the eu and its member states in their efforts to promote gender equality, to fight discrimination based on sex and to raise awareness about gender equality issues. its tasks are to collect and analyse comparable data on gender issues, to develop methodological tools, in particular for the integration of the gender dimension in all policy areas, to facilitate the exchange of best practices and dialogue among stakeholders, and to raise awareness among eu citizens. the work of this institute is very important, therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european medicines agency is a decentralised agency of the european union, located in london. the agency is responsible for the scientific evaluation of medicines developed by pharmaceutical companies for use in the european union.
in writing. − the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction exists to provide the eu and its member states with a factual overview of european drug problems and a solid evidence base to support the drugs debate. today it offers policymakers the data they need for drawing up informed drug laws and strategies. it also helps professionals and practitioners working in the field pinpoint best practice and new areas of research.
in writing. − the objectives of the european maritime safety agency are addressed through a matrix of mainly preventive, but also reactive, tasks in a number of key areas. firstly, the agency has been tasked with assisting the commission in monitoring the implementation of eu legislation relating, among others, to ship construction and planned maintenance, ship inspection and the reception of ship waste in eu ports, certification of marine equipment, ship security, the training of seafarers in non-eu countries and port state control. secondly, the agency operates, maintains and develops maritime information capabilities at eu level. significant examples are the safeseanet vessel-tracking system, for eu-wide tracking of vessels and their cargoes, and the eu lrit cooperative data centre, to identify and track eu flagged vessels worldwide.
in writing. − the european network and information security agency is the eu’s response to the cyber-security issues of the european union. as such, it is the ‘pace-setter’ for information security in europe, and a centre of expertise.
in writing. − the construction of a safe, modern integrated railway network is one of the eu’s major priorities. railways must become more competitive and offer high-quality, end-to-end services without being restricted by national borders. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the mission of the european training foundation is to help transitioning and developing countries harness the potential of their human capital through the reform of education, training and labour market systems in the context of the eu’s external relations policy.
in writing. − the european agency for safety and health at work is committed to making europe a safer, healthier and more productive place to work. it promotes a culture of risk prevention to improve working conditions in europe. i am in favour of granting budget discharge to this agency.
in writing. − the euratom supply agency aims to provide a wide range of information on nuclear market developments, as well as making reports on the eu market, average prices, total supply and demand, etc., available to the public.
in writing. − eurofound’s role is to provide information, advice and expertise – on living and working conditions, industrial relations and managing change in europe – for key actors in the field of eu social policy on the basis of comparative information, research and analysis.
in writing. − eurojust is an agency of the european union (eu) dealing with judicial co-operation in criminal matters. its task is to stimulate and improve the coordination of investigations and prosecutions among the competent judicial authorities of the eu member states when they deal with serious cross-border crime and organised crime.
in writing. − europol is the european law enforcement agency. its job is to make europe safer by assisting the member states of the european union in their fight against serious international crime and terrorism.
in writing. − the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) helps to ensure that the fundamental rights of people living in the eu are protected. it does this by collecting evidence about the fundamental rights situation across the european union and providing advice, based on evidence, on how to improve that situation. the fra also informs people about their fundamental rights. in doing so, it helps to make fundamental rights a reality for everyone in the european union. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) coordinates operational cooperation between member states in the field of external border management, assists member states in their training of national border guards, including the establishment of common training standards, carries out risk analyses, follows up development of research relevant to the control and surveillance of external borders, assists member states in circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance at external borders, and provides member states with the necessary support in organising joint return operations.
in writing. − the objective of the agency is to ensure that essential public interests are properly defended and represented in connection with the european union’s satellite navigation programmes (galileo and egnos). the aim of galileo is to provide a modern european alternative to the established gps system of the united states of america. the agency is responsible for managing and monitoring the use of the programme’s funds. it will help the commission deal with any matters relating to satellite radio-navigation.
in writing. − artemis aims to tackle the research and structural challenges facing european industry by defining and implementing a coherent research agenda for embedded computing systems.
in writing. − clean sky is the most ambitious aeronautical research programme ever launched in europe. its mission is to develop breakthrough technologies to increase significantly the environmental performances of airplanes and air transport, resulting in less noisy and more fuel-efficient aircraft, hence bringing a key contribution to achieving the single european sky environmental objectives.
in writing. − the task of the eniac joint undertaking is to coordinate european research in nanoelectronics by organising calls for proposals and managing the execution of research projects. i support the work of the agency, therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch ju) is a unique public private partnership supporting research, technological development and demonstration (rtd) activities in fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies in europe. its aim is to accelerate the market introduction of these technologies, realising their potential as an instrument in achieving a carbon-lean energy system. i am in favour.
in writing. − the innovative medicines initiative (imi) is europe’s largest public-private initiative aiming to speed up the development of better and safer medicines for patients. imi supports collaborative research projects and builds networks of industrial and academic experts in order to boost pharmaceutical innovation in europe. imi is a joint undertaking between the european union and the pharmaceutical industry association efpia.
in writing. − fusion for energy (f4e) is the european union’s joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy. the organisation was created under the euratom treaty by a decision of the council of the european union in order to meet three objectives. f4e is responsible for providing europe’s contribution to iter, the world’s largest scientific partnership that aims to demonstrate fusion as a viable and sustainable source of energy. iter brings together seven parties that represent half of the world’s population – the eu, russia, japan, china, india, south korea and the united states. f4e also supports fusion research and development initiatives through the broader approach agreement, signed with japan – a fusion energy partnership which will last for 10 years.
in writing. − the mission of the sesar joint undertaking is to develop a modernised air traffic management system for europe. this future system will ensure the safety and fluidity of air transport over the next thirty years, will make flying more environmentally friendly and reduce the costs of air traffic management.
in writing. − this is an increasingly important area in the current financial climate. the rapporteur is correctly putting the emphasis on the need for efficient revenue collection in the fight against fraud domain. i completely support mep mr balčytis.
in writing. - i supported the draft proposal for a regulation on roaming on public mobile networks in the union in the european parliament's plenary session. i think that roaming services in eu member states have been too expensive so far, but it is extremely important to use them now, when people are increasingly travelling to other eu member states. it would be necessary to make these services available to everyone without worrying about excessive costs. for example, there have been no price caps on data roaming at all until now, but the new rules provide that they will have to be introduced as from 1 july 2012, and that by 2014 the price caps on data roaming (per 1 mb) and telephone calls (per 1 minute) will be gradually reduced to eur 0,05 (excluding vat) and on short messages (per 1 sms) to eur 0,02 (excluding vat). furthermore, i believe that the new rules will also benefit operators, as competition will be promoted by enabling customers to purchase local and roaming services from different operators, keeping the same number and without additional charges.
in writing. − it is necessary to make it possible for users of mobile services in the eu to pay the minimum price for conversations they have and text messages they send while staying outside their home country. today, many phone operators collude and rob users of mobile networks impudently. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 689/2008, known as the pic (prior informed consent) regulation, covers the export and import of dangerous chemicals and implements the rotterdam convention for the eu. i am in favour.
in writing. − the change in the comitology procedure due to the lisbon treaty enables a new procedure for adopting delegated acts and implementing acts. the aim is to have a procedure which sets out more clearly the arrangements for their rapid approval. there is no precise and clear interaction of bodies. the report is amorphous. i abstained.
in writing. − the report provides an answer to widespread concerns over an increase in libel tourism (claimants choosing the most favourable jurisdictions for their suit). i agree with the proposal to ask the commission to consider for its future working programme a conflict of laws solution for privacy and rights relating to personality, which should be integrated into the rome ii regulation. it builds on parliament’s position of 6 july 2005, which was rejected in the council.
in writing. − the arab spring has given the eu a unique opportunity for renewed engagement with the countries of the southern mediterranean. this report examines how the eu can live up its promises following the changes in the southern neighbourhood. furthermore, it looks at greater commercial engagement balanced alongside human rights, democracy, sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. a very important report, i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the resolution parliament acknowledges the important role of the european patent office in supporting innovation competitiveness and economic growth in europe. i voted in favour.
in writing. − with the threat of piracy in the indian ocean, particularly in the horn of africa, a continued major danger to regional development and stability, world trade, maritime transport and shipping including fishing vessels, the resolution calls for better coordination on the issue and for the following in particular: measures to address the root causes of the problem, and to achieve the liberation of seafarers held hostage by pirates, as well as a harmonised eu approach to the use of certified armed personnel on board; plans for the future of the eu-navfor atalanta mission, especially considering that the number of naval assets operating in the mission has decreased; actions at international level (un, imo) to improve cooperation in the fight against maritime piracy; and traceability and confiscation of ransoms paid and placed in bank accounts in eu member states and action to convince third countries to take equivalent measures so that ransoms from piracy can no longer be placed in third-country bank accounts. in that sense the report coincides with my position. i am in favour.
thank you, chairman. europe needs growth. to have economic growth, we need investment, because through investment we will have new jobs. we have limited financial instruments in europe, which are specifically designed for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also the ones most likely to create new jobs. where is the challenge, where is the problem? the definition of smes is now so broad that it covers virtually all european enterprises (99%). this means that companies that are really small and really difficult to access finance do not have the opportunities they need. i propose that we revise the definition of smes to include directly and exclusively the small businesses that need the most help. thank you for your attention.
in writing. – in my opinion another resolution on ukraine shows the european parliament’s inability to conduct a constructive dialogue with an important partner. all arguments by supporters of yulia tymoshenko and supporters of strict diktats towards the current government of ukraine resemble hysteria more than debates. we should be guided only by facts and not engage in political advertising of yulia tymoshenko, who lost the elections. i am sure that, if the court reached a verdict that mrs tymoshenko is guilty, she should be subjected to punishment accordingly. i am sure that efforts to put the former prime minister beyond the law represent interference in the domestic affairs of ukraine. i am sure that the political struggle should not become a clown-style activity. 48 million ukrainian citizens are waiting for change but instead they see every day the yulia tymoshenko soap opera. i will vote against the resolution and all other texts on ukraine if they contain silly points and emotions. i am confident that the appeal from catherine ashton to boycott euro 2012 is an irresponsible move that will drive ukraine away from the eu. i appeal to all meps to make a statement regarding that.
in writing. − the reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation will simplify the administrative procedures involved and, by virtue of their greater scarcity, increase the value of each commemorative coin.
in writing. − the ep and national parliaments must be at the centre of the process for the definition of internal security priorities and strategies in the eu. a strong democratic dimension is badly needed and fundamental rights must always be the core of the internal security strategy of the eu. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report looks into the issue of criminal law having become a part of eu competences with the treaty of lisbon. it is clear that criminal law is different from other legal domains in that it, by definition, restricts certain human rights and fundamental freedoms of the accused/convicted person and the treaty also sees an exceptional procedure – the emergency brake – for the member states in this area of law; a careful approach to developing eu criminal law has to be taken. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the resolution on a strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers, as latvian citizens would benefit from greater consumer protection in the eu. eu countries still have different rules and levels of consumer protection. the resolution stresses the need to do more in this area, namely to supplement legislation to address shortcomings and adapt to the current situation. however, the most important aspect is the difference in the quality of goods between eu countries, as it is no secret that some branded goods in eastern european countries are of lower quality than those bought in western europe. this is a major injustice and the eu must correct it, which is why i tabled a motion which was supported and included in the final text of the resolution. work in this area will continue in the eu and i will work towards proposals that would protect latvian consumers and ensure that they are included in draft laws.
in writing. − the upcoming consumer agenda – must address the problem of vulnerability among consumers as a horizontal task, taking into account consumers’ various needs, abilities and circumstances. the resolution calls on the eu and the member states to pay more attention to and invest more in consumer information and education campaigns. i consider this initiative as a first step in that direction. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i am not sure that this report is concerned with the issuance of euro coins. one option for the future of the euro currency which the european central bank and the commission could also consider is that of issuing 1 and 2 euro banknotes. i am not sure that issuing 1- and 2-euro banknotes would reduce the number of 1- and 2-euro coins in circulation. the use of 1- and 2-euro banknotes would at the same time have advantages for member states. i am not sure that issuing 1- and 2-euro banknotes would increase the manageability and acceptance of the currency and have a positive influence on european tourism without impairing the value placed on other euro coins intended for circulation. i am not sure issuing 1- and 2-euro banknotes would increase the value of euro collector coins. therefore, i abstained.
in writing. − this report builds on the work started by the imco committee in spring 2011 by endorsing 3 reports on improving the european single market. in particular, i support the rapporteur's call on the commission to undertake a more thorough assessment of the way eu legislation is implemented in the member states. it is pointless if the legislation being drafted is not implemented at all or is implemented only partially. i also find the proposal to develop the your europe portal to provide consumers and businesses with all the relevant information to be found together very valuable. in practice, there are a number of information tools to facilitate consumer protection and fair cross-border trade, but unfortunately the knowledge of the public about these sources of information is minimal. this is partly due to the fact that the information is distributed and a single website would facilitate this process. although we are increasingly using electronic means, there are still people who value the human touch. this is why the rapporteur's proposal to set up a contact point in each member state where advice on programmes such as solvit, your europe advice, etc. could be obtained is welcome. this would be a minimal additional cost, as the contact points would be located on the premises of the european commission's representations. educating the population on these issues would promote cross-border cooperation and thus also economic growth. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we must continue to work towards improving the single market. it is a growth-enhancing measure that the european union is badly in need of at the moment.
in writing. − it is important that member states transpose internal market legislation into national law promptly and correctly and implement such legislation properly in order to consistently pursue the interest of the union as a whole. it is also important that member states react to other legal acts as well, for instance those depriving fundamental citizenship rights in latvia.
in writing. − the report states that 39% of turkish women have encountered violence at some point of their lives; condemns honour killings; asks for training for police officers and protection measures and shelters (only 65 for 70 million people) but also welcomes the setting up of a specialised domestic violence bureau within the ankara public prosecutor’s office. obviously there is the need for participation of girls in primary education and pre-school enrolment and the lack of childcare. a national action plan to ensure greater participation of women in the labour market and equal pay is also taken up in the report, which also welcomes the increase of women in the current parliament, at present 14.3%. however, we should strive for real equality. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report invites the president of the european parliament to undertake all steps necessary to organise smooth running of the public hearings of a successful european citizen’s initiative and proposes amending the european parliament’s rules of procedure accordingly. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in november 2010, in paris, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna amended its multiannual recovery plan for the eastern stock of bluefin tuna in order to provide for a further reduction of the total allowable catch, to strengthen measures to reduce the fishing capacity and to reinforce the control measures, particularly as regards the transfer and the caging operations. as the eu is a contracting party to international commission for the conservation of atlantic tuna i think that these amendments are very timely and i voted in favour.
in writing. − this regulation seeks to reduce the risks of accidental oil pollution in european waters through accelerated phasing-in of double-hull requirements. in single-hull vessels the oil in the cargo tanks is separated from the seawater only by the bottom and side plating. if the hull is damaged following a collision or grounding, there is a risk that the cargo tanks will discharge their contents into the sea and cause major pollution. an effective means of avoiding this risk is to surround the cargo tanks with a second inner plate at a sufficient distance from the outer shell. this ‘double hull’ design protects the cargo tanks from damage and thus reduces the pollution risk. i voted in favour.
in writing. − on 2 june 2011, after lengthy and difficult negotiations, a new protocol was signed between the eu and mozambique. this protocol will be valid for three years (from 1 january 2012 to 31 december 2014) and involves an annual contribution of eur 980 000 from the eu budget, of which eur 520 000 is for access by european fishing vessels to the mozambique fishing zone and eur 460 000 is to assist mozambique’s sectoral policy. since it is in the interest of both parties to conclude a new protocol i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal for a council directive to introduce a financial transaction tax because i believe that such a tax is ill-conceived and will only worsen the eu's worsening economic problems. the directive provides for the introduction of a tax on financial transactions in all types of securities such as shares, bonds and derivatives on regulated and unregulated markets. the directive does not apply to transactions on the original markets (national bank). the tax is intended to be applied on the basis of the residence principle, i.e. the transaction partner located in the eu is taxed, and on the basis of the issue principle, i.e. the issuer of securities located in the eu is taxed, and therefore there is a concern that more and more transactions could take place outside the eu in order to avoid taxation. those transactions which cannot be transferred outside the eu, such as the acquisition of shares in various companies on stock exchanges, are classified. it should be borne in mind that some of the eu economies are currently in crisis and that work is needed to restore growth and confidence. raising taxes and introducing new taxes will not help to restore growth or credibility.
in writing. − this is a very ambitious proposal but it is not a key part of our strategy to exit the crisis. the introduction of the financial transaction tax will make the global financial sector less stable and more risky on financing the real economy. i voted against.
in writing. − the report emphasises the need to adopt a balanced approach towards china and calls on the commission and the members states to build up better cooperation with china in all areas of interests. i agree that is necessary to take into account dumping prices, human rights violations and aggressive external position.
in writing. − i agree that right of enquiry of committees should be extended in order to make them do their job more efficiently – to have access to all information, to invite witnesses, etc.
author. − mr president, this is the second time during this strasbourg session that we have asked why eu member states are facing unequal treatment by third countries. the first question, related to visa requirements, was addressed to canada. the second, related to access to economic activity, we are putting today to our european neighbour, switzerland, which has decided to re-establish quantitative limitations on the long-term residence permits granted to nationals of the eight eu member states which joined the eu in 2004, including my own country, latvia. our group deplores this decision taken by the swiss authorities and demands solidarity with the member states concerned. are these two precedents of unequal treatment of nationals of different eu member states an example of opportunism, or maybe a sign of a new trend? maybe there is an underlying reason for such phenomena. therefore our question is addressed not only to the swiss authorities, but first of all to ourselves. are the eu’s own institutions and political leaders behaving in such a way that others cannot imagine introducing selective discriminatory treatment with respect to eu citizens? maybe we ourselves are demonstrating a tendency for less solidarity and more national egoism. in my opinion, the european parliament must restart discussions on the enforcement of a common european citizenship. the status of the eu citizen must be more than simply a derivative of member states’ citizenship. such a status may be a safeguard against the different treatment of possessors of european citizenship by third countries. we know that 2013 will be the year of eu citizens – or eu citizenship – and there is a danger that the whole issue will be confined to particular problems. in my opinion, this will be the proper time to start promoting this kind of status of eu citizenship, which will grant equal treatment of eu citizens by switzerland, canada and any other country.
mr president, i would like to thank mr kazak for his work. i would like to underline two aspects of micro-financial help from the commission. firstly, it is necessary to make a list of priority countries due to their geographical position. first of all, countries with a common border with european society – ukraine, moldova, bosnia and herzegovina, turkey, serbia and so on. mfa is important for more effective cooperation with the governments of these countries on the european continent. secondly, the european parliament cannot be a co-owner of the rules. i would like to remind the commission that the european parliament is the only owner and founder in european society, especially in the case of fund transfers.
in writing. − the main goals of proposal are: to create a formal legal instrument for micro-financial assistance to third countries; to introduce quicker, more efficient and streamlined decision-making for individual micro-financial assistance operations; to agree rules and conditions among the eu institutions (to make the ep ‘co-owner of the rules’); to update and clarify some of the rules, most notably on the geographical scope of micro-financial assistance; to align decision-making for micro-financial assistance with other external financial assistance instruments. i would suggest paying attention to countries neighbouring the eu.
in writing. − i completely disagree with the text of the resolution and as a sign of protest i was absent during votes on this resolution.
in writing. − it is totally abnormal when people are pursued or made fun of because of their religion, nationality, ethnicity, sex, social affiliation, etc. i totally support the report in the part which relates to violation of human rights and limitation of freedoms. however, i think that lgbt people should not impose their affiliation on other people in order not to provoke any anger or hatred from other people. i am against one-sex marriages because it is against the christian tradition of marriage.
in writing. − moving towards a resource-efficient economy will bring increased competitiveness and new sources of growth and jobs, through cost savings from improved efficiency, commercialisation of innovations and better management of resources throughout their lifecycle. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the motion for a resolution on the youth employment opportunity initiative because i believe that this initiative is a good start to reduce youth unemployment in the eu, where youth unemployment is on average 22%. in 2011, the unemployment rate among young people in latvia was 29.9%. the commission's initiative calls on member states to focus on preventing early school leaving, helping young people develop the skills required by the labour market, providing work experience and practical training and helping young people to find a good first job. i believe that each member state should also develop its own youth guarantee scheme to ensure that young people have found a job, or an apprenticeship, or started studying within 4 months of leaving school, but it is doubtful whether the eur 4 million that the commission is prepared to allocate to member states will be sufficient to set up such schemes.
in writing. − the european parliament welcomes the commission’s ‘youth opportunities initiative’ communication building on earlier commission initiatives like ‘youth on the move’ and ‘new skills and new jobs’ and the many initiatives presented in this series of communications, but has serious doubts as to whether the scale of the actions proposed is proportionate to the gravity of the current youth unemployment crises experienced in many member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. − women across the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men in the eu, progress is extremely slow and in some member states the gap has even widened. everything has to be done to achieve total equality. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the motion for a resolution on swiss quotas in respect of the number of residence permits granted, as i consider that the swiss decision to impose quotas on certain eu member states is illegal and discriminatory. the 1999 eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons (hereinafter referred to as the agreement) provides for the possibility for switzerland to set residence permit quotas if the number of permits granted exceeds the average number of permits granted in the previous three years by at least 10%. this provision of the treaty applies to employed and self-employed persons in the european community and not to nationals of a particular member state, and therefore the fixing of quotas for a particular member state is unacceptable. i am also against the conditions adopted by switzerland, for example requiring a financial guarantee from cross-border service providers, and against the fact that additional conditions for service providers are being considered, as this may significantly impede the provision of services by eu companies in switzerland. the eu and switzerland must therefore resolve the current situation as soon as possible and jointly develop a system that does not restrict the free movement of persons and services.
in writing. − the european parliament asks the commission to indicate what actions have been undertaken, since the adoption of the parliament resolution of 7 september 2010, to solve the problems regarding the flanking measures which make it difficult for smes from the eu to provide services in switzerland, and to convince the swiss authorities to repeal regulations which oblige foreign enterprises providing cross-border services to deposit a guarantee of financial probity.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! the world expects the european union to act decisively, to create jobs and to provide a strong impetus for growth. but the very sad news about europe is not positive; it is mostly negative. we all know that this free trade agreement would give us better access, europe better access to the asian markets. each of us today realizes that these will not be easy conversations. but it's only by talking that we can solve something. latvians have a saying that water under a standing stone does not move. so, if we don't talk, then this is the stumbling block that will be on the way to intensifying our economic relations and trade. of course, we have vague and unclear questions about non-tariff barriers in the automotive sector, in the pharmaceutical sector, in the railway sector, in public procurement and in agricultural products, but the european commission has made it very clear that it is prepared to suspend the negotiations if japan does not comply with the commitments it has made at the pre-negotiation stage. i want to emphasise again that the sooner we start talking, the stronger the signal we will send to the world that europe is active and capable of action. let us not forget that japan has supported us with its investment in the stabilization fund and japan has the same values as we do. our potential is not being used today. if we have such a hard time negotiating a free trade agreement with japan, how will we ever reach the level of negotiations with the united states on a free trade agreement that is currently being discussed in political circles as one of the ways to strengthen the union of democratic nations? thank you, mr president.
chairman! what would we do if there were no clowns on earth? well, like in latvia, they're sometimes appointed as ministers. one of these particularly active clowns became a minister in the latvian government. and they immediately came up with a new law. he decided to test the loyalty of the children of latvian citizens. please tell me, is it possible to test a child for trustworthiness? aren't these clown tricks, but maybe it's a crime called "inciting international hatred"? if it were to happen in the republic of congo, we would have a resolution in the european parliament, but if it happens in the european union, in latvia, then it is normal. was i wrong? thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the european commission's proposal, by its very nature, puts on paper as secondary legislation the procedure already faced by member states receiving financial assistance in the euro area, while avoiding conflicts with fiscal compactness and harmonising this legislation. the more we try to put political emphasis here in the european parliament, and sometimes also national emphasis on domestic politics, the more we jeopardise the rapid achievement of constructive results in the 'two-package' approach. because what is it really about? which comes first fiscal discipline and then debt cost reduction through debt redemption funds or eurobonds, or vice versa? and that's called mutual distrust. if we do not achieve a quick and sensible result, we will encourage different approaches and resentment among member states about the methods of support. and that's not something that we're actually able to do at this point. we're going to be responsible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we all know that a house is built on foundations. if the foundation is properly laid, the house will be stable, but if it is poorly laid, the house may be unstable or even collapse. there are two things that i think are being misrepresented in the public space right now. on the one hand, savings, on the other, growth. so some people say, "well, first of all, we need austerity". others say, "first of all, we need to talk about growth. growing up spending money. but my friends! if we could have created growth in europe by spending money, we wouldn't have had a crisis at all. so it's quite clear that spending money, well, that's not how we're going to achieve growth. to have a stable growth economy, you need these stable foundations like a house. and it's government budgetary policies that are thrifty that are putting these solid foundations for economic growth in place. let's take my country, latvia, as an example. the government, in its budget, has now set a target of 5% growth per year. stable foundations, steady growth. you guys! i urge you to support these bills! it is vital that we strengthen the foundations of our economy. thank you for your attention.
in writing. – adoption of the so-called “two-pack” is an important step towards strengthening the economic governance framework within the euro area. the six-pack complemented by the two-pack is the badly needed “medicine” to achieve further economic growth, financial stability and stronger budgetary discipline. unfortunately, now we are learning the hard way about the dramatic effects of member states' excessive debt. the two-pack is needed in order to put in place the legal framework for the work european commission is already performing as it is closely linked with the “fiscal compact treaty”. our future growth is dependent on sustainable public finances and budgetary discipline rather than on creating new debt and deficit. austerity measures should be seen as a stable foundation for future growth in europe as they are not mutually exclusive concepts. take, for example, the case of latvia — the country which during the crisis had the greatest budgetary consolidation (17% of its gdp) in the eu and now is the fastest growing economy in the eu-27. in the long-term, stability and growth in the euro zone are the most crucial factors and stimulus for other eu countries to join in the upcoming years.
in writing. − it is known that this is the second application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 631 565 from the european globalisation fund for spain. it concerns 876 redundancies, all targeted for assistance, in 146 enterprises operating in manufacture of leather and related products in the region of comunidad valenciana during the nine-month reference period from 25 january 2011 to 25 october 2011.
in writing. − this draft amending budget n°2 relates to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in italy for a total amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitments and payments. i support the assistance to those who suffered in natural disasters. however, i would like to ask why during mass corruption of electricity in latvia in 2011 european parliament was not concerned about assistance?
in writing. − this application relates to flooding that affected the regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011, causing severe damage to residential homes, businesses and agriculture and the disruption of major transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. the total direct damage caused by the flooding, as estimated by the italian authorities, amounts to eur 722, 5 million. the commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 18 061 682
in writing. − on 4 april 2012 the commission has adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. it concerns the mobilisation of eur 1.12 million from the fund, covering technical assistance for the commission. a maximum of eur 1.75 million can be used each year in order to cover the indicated needs for the implementation of the fund. according to commission's proposal, this amount is intended to cover the following activities: monitoring, information, creation of a knowledge base, administrative and technical support, evaluation
in writing. − the rapporteur insists that, for the eu, reinforcing our presence in latin america could provide a new impetus towards the way out of the crisis. therefore, the rapporteur believes in the necessity of a redirection of our development aid policy. coordinated and customised cooperation is necessary, that gives due regard to the situation of each country and that is based on broader indicators than those that measure income level. the rapporteur requests that the european commission present a coherent strategy for the gradual withdrawal of bilateral aid to the middle income countries, and that it reinforce aid to the low income countries. he also insists on maintaining the current commitment of directing 20 % of aid to the key sectors of education, training and public health.
in writing. − volunteering directly contributes to the key objectives of the eu policies such as social inclusion, employment, education, skills development, citizenship, justice and social solidarity. volunteers help shape european society and those performing their activities abroad are actively helping to build a citizens' europe. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − with the increasing use of internet and computer-based technologies, the security of the internet stands as one of the highest political priorities for the european union and the rest of the world. this report proposes a comprehensive cyber-security strategy for europe, defining the missing norms for the main security concepts (critical information infrastructure protection, attacks on information systems, etc), as well as for separate bodies. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report calls for increased cooperation and coordination at eu level on energy policy in order to speak with one voice to the rest of the world and with key suppliers and transit countries of energy. it states that if the eu were able to agree common negotiating positions with third countries, then we would nearly always be in a good bargaining position. the report also highlights the need for diversification of suppliers, the need for new and improved energy infrastructure and the export of our knowhow and technology to help third countries and spread the highest environmental and safety standards throughout the world.
in writing. − the report 'building energy policy cooperation with partners outside the eu: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply' is certainly to be welcomed. its main objective is to improve the coordination of eu member states' energy policies with third countries by promoting the application of the eu's common principles of market liberalisation, diversification of energy supplies and a single eu energy market. these objectives are particularly important for the baltic states, which remain isolated in terms of energy infrastructure, an island isolated from the rest of the eu. the report focuses on the special situation of the baltic states, particularly their excessive dependence on russian gas supplies, which account for almost 100% of the gas consumed in the baltic states. it is also important to note that the report states that each region must always have access to at least two different sources of energy supply. this principle is mentioned in the communication from the european commission entitled 'energy infrastructure priorities for 2020'. the report also strongly supports the call for the eu and its member states to achieve a single internal energy market that can function in the face of external pressures and attempts to use energy supply and energy prices as a foreign policy tool. the need to increase funding for energy market interconnection projects in the eu and to complete the european gas and electricity network by 2015, in particular with regard to the baltic interconnection plan, is therefore underlined.
in writing. – why european parliament is interested in human rights only outside eu? why different position on completely equal circumstances is deemed to be normal for european parliament? i am more and more surprised and astonished by cynicism and farce peculiar to european parliament. on one hand we insist on rules of law, firmness of legislation and european values. but if the matter regards, for example, ukraine, then all principles become only sticks. the impression appears that nobody needs the truth. outburst of emotions is needed and beautiful words, so it comes out that in india everything is all right, in china everything is all right, in saudi arabia all right as well, but in ukraine everything is terrible. but it is just cowardice and humiliation to throw up cards in front of the strong and not be ceremonious towards neighbours if they are different!
in writing. the eu budget represents a relatively small amount only 2% of the eu's total public expenditure. it must therefore contribute to the achievement of the commonly-defined policy objectives of the eu. these will not be achieved without adequate funding from a stable european budget. i therefore support the requirement - also laid down in the europe treaty - to ensure adequate revenue from the true resources of europe itself. before we approve the multiannual budget, we need to reach political agreement on reforming the own resources system to ensure its transparency, fairness and sustainability. in setting the european multiannual budget, we must strictly observe the principles of solidarity, balanced territorial development and fair competition. this is particularly the case in the common agricultural policy, where subsidies distorting fair competition are most clearly visible.
in writing. − unfortunately neither biography, nor work experience convinced me in capability of iliana ivanova to fulfil her responsibilities efficiently. i abstained.
in writing. − the report put forward the annual ep recommendations to the council regarding the 67th un general assembly notably the role of the eu at the un, global governance, peace and security, reform of the security council, development issues including sustainable development and climate change and human rights, international justice and democracy support.
in writing. − for the first time, this regulation will be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. therefore it will enable developing countries to participate more fully in international trade and thereby generate additional export revenue to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policy strategies. preferences will be withdrawn from some countries, thereby increasing the value of the preferences for those who remain in the scheme, a process which could be called "preference consolidation." i voted in favour.
in writing. − the enhanced surveillance consists mainly on reporting on the financial situation of its financial institutions, on the carry out of stress tests, and on providing further information on macro economic imbalances. the risk of greek scenario will diminish to maximum extent. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this commission proposal aims at setting-up a common budgetary procedure and timeline for member states and to go beyond the six pack by further monitoring member states whose currency is the euro and that are in excessive deficit procedure (ex ante and ex post reinforced surveillance). in future it will allow avoiding counterfeiting of accounting document of eu member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the objective of this proposed regulation is to extend the geographic scope of operations for the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to the southern and eastern mediterranean. the aim is to incorporate countries that are located on the southern and eastern shoreline of the mediterranean and jordan as well, as the country is closely related to the countries on the shoreline. i voted in favour.
in writing. − eu budget does not fulfil its intended purpose as an investment budget with a strong leverage effect; under 45% of the budgeted spend falls under heading one, sustainable growth, with the remainder being earmarked for other purposes which have little to do with strategic investment in europe. eu 2020 strategy has been set as a substantial objective to support sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment in europe and was approved by the 27 member states, but the failure of the lisbon strategy on which it is based does not lend any credibility for the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. the ep adopted a resolution on the multiannual financial framework and own resources sends a clear signal to the eu leaders before their first discussion of the 2014-2020 budgetary plan. the eu budget is a very strong and strategic tool to put the european economy back on track and to meet the political ambitions of the eu; however, the budgetary consolidation measures currently imposed on national budgets must be taken into account. i therefore welcome the proposals on the reform of the own resources system as they aim to reduce the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the eu budget from 75% to 40% by 2020, thereby contributing to the consolidation efforts of member states. the next long-term budget should also provide greater flexibility to cope adequately with evolving challenges and priorities amongst the financial years within the mff.
in writing. − european parliament asks the council not to authorise the opening of trade negotiations until parliament has stated its position on the proposed negotiating mandate, on the basis of a report by the committee responsible. i am in favour.
in writing. − nothing surprising, it is another "coup d'etat militaire". but coup d'etats can be proper and improper. this one is improper.
in writing. − the eu should work closely with regional and global players to ensure smooth implementation of the un sc resolution on sudan and south sudan demanding the end of hostilities and paving the way for comprehensive resolution of the out-standing post separation issues between the two countries.
in writing. − regrets that, although the chapter on trade and sustainable development includes legally binding provisions, there is no binding dispute settlement mechanism for this chapter in the trade agreement, and that the use of the measures and sanctions foreseen in the trade agreement’s binding general dispute settlement mechanism is excluded in the case of violations of the standards set forth in the chapter on trade and sustainable development, constituting a weakening of the current binding conditions. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in order to raise the profile of human rights in eu external action, it was decided by the council to appoint an eu special representative for human rights (first thematic sr ever) as much more needs to be done in order for human rights to run like a "silver tread" through eu external policy (dixit ashton). the eu special representative should have an international profile, and possess experience and proven dedication to the cause of human rights. the appointment should be made by june 2012 on a proposal made by the high representative. so, it is the solution for human rights violations in europe. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the negotiations on the arms trade treaty are expected to begin at the un during the first week of july. the report calls on the eu to seek and advocate the long term success of the arms trade treaty which depends upon adopting the highest, strongest and clearest possible set of standards. especially regarding support of revolutions, but not to sell if "suddenly" revolutionists are not revolutionists but extremists. but what is the difference? revolutionists are those who are in friends with eu. but extremists are those who are not in friends. i abstained.
in writing. − follow up - there will be a civil war and not any resolutions will stop it. i abstained.
in writing. − fishing process should be regulated. it is essential to strictly define the circumstances under which the commission may adopt delegated acts and to distinguish this case from the other changes that may be made to the plan. i voted in favour.
in writing. − prevent chemical accidents, strengthen assessment of hazards and response plans and keep the public well informed. nothing new but efficient for imitation of work. i am in favour.
in writing. − general rules on composition and labelling would be established only for three specific categories of foods: - infant formulae and follow-on formulae; - processed cereal-based food and baby food for infants and young children; - food for special medical purposes detailed rules would be adopted by delegated acts. a list of substances (vitamins, minerals, amino acids, etc.) which may be added to the above categories would be adopted by implementing acts. foods not included in the parnuts legislation would be regulated under general food legislation, e.g. on nutrition and health claims and on information to consumers.
in writing. − european parliament calls on the commission to actively seek communication with ordinary citizens by making full use of existing communication channels to disseminate consultations and conduct them in conjunction with ngos and other stakeholders; urges the commission to ensure that every eu citizen’s right to address the eu institutions in any of the eu official languages is fully respected and implemented by ensuring that public consultations are available in all eu official languages, that all consultations are treated equally and that there is no language-based discrimination between consultations; asks the commission to ensure that all consultations are understandable to ordinary citizens and are carried out over a sufficiently long period of time to allow for increased participation. i would add languages of national minorities in eu. but it is another stage of development.
in writing. − european parliament insists that the authorities of the people’s republic of china respect the freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of belief of the tibetans.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is necessary to demonstrate once again clearly to the commission and the member states the priorities of parliament and the important role that certain steps in strengthening a genuine single market will play in restoring european growth. the single market has brought enormous benefits to all europeans and opened up new growth opportunities for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises and small businesses in the member states. the strengthening of the single market therefore not only promotes economic growth but also balanced development in europe and allows a faster rise in the standard of living in those european countries which were recently in slavery. the current crisis and its unleashed protectionist instincts threaten the european project. the single market is therefore more necessary than ever, as it will ensure the long-term viability of the single european project.
in writing. − since the completion of the single market, based on a balanced development of the economic, social and environmental dimensions, represents a formidable drive for a successful growth strategy for the eu, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i support the report because any new proposals from the commission on company law matters must respect employee participation and ensure greater transparency in the legal and ownership structures of companies.
in writing. − i believe that to accelerate job creation, we need proposals towards a european investment plan, a coherent european industrial strategy and investment in public services, based on new sources of revenue, including a financial transactions tax and eurobonds, giving priority to investments that promote a sustainable economy, quality jobs and social justice, while fighting inequalities.
in writing. − european parliament calls upon the un general assembly to adopt a resolution at its 67th session with a view to ending female genital mutilation worldwide. i voted in favour.
in writing. − european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to strengthen their cooperation within the existing legal framework, in particular in the fields of market surveillance, vigilance and inspection, and to tighten controls, in order to provide a better guarantee of safety of patients, especially those exposed to high-risk medical devices. i agree.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to start by congratulating debora serracchiani and all my colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs. we can accept that we have compromised during the negotiations and succeeded in attaining a reasonable compromise on several elements: separate accounting for railway undertakings and rail network managers; non-discriminatory access to rail paths and service facilities; transparent pricing, as well as strengthening the independent national rail regulators. with this new directive, it is considered that railway operators across europe will be able to enjoy improvements and benefit from fairer competition. unfortunately this will not be the case in some railway markets, particularly those with different gauges in the baltic states and finland. this market is dominated by profitable freight transport. in reality it is not an internal eu market, but a market with third countries. this legislation and the deal we agreed on during the negotiations means that we will open up only the eu part of the market, without getting a reciprocity approach in relation to third-country markets. to be honest i would have never imagined that for instance the russian duma would open their railway market and not ask for reciprocity with the markets in other countries at the same time. that is why i really regret that the safeguard clause in the initial commission proposal and parliament’s first reading was rejected by the council. at the same time a deal is a deal and, if tomorrow we vote on some particular amendments for some very special lines for a very special state, i think we will make a wrong choice. if we do this it means that we can legislate on whether the size of the country matters in this house.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam prime minister, mr commissioner, please take note of the following: in a crisis, the most common tendency is to focus on solving the crisis at hand, leaving everything else to chance. as we well know, the financial and economic crisis has been the main focus of attention in general and the main topic of press in the last six months, and not just in the last six months. and the danish presidency has been very tempted to devote all its energy and all its efforts to these issues alone, leaving everything else that is also important to us to the side. but the danish presidency has not done so. and here i have to say with all due respect (especially considering that it is a small country) that it has been able to simultaneously address, i would say, the main problems we have and also to solve many other issues. i'm not going to talk about a lot of other things. i would like to emphasise the energy sector. in the interests of the future, it is of course very important that we move towards a single european energy policy. this will increase our energy security, help reduce co2 emissions and - very importantly - help reduce our dependence on imports. and under the danish presidency, we have dealt with both energy efficiency legislation and legislation that we will only vote on in this house in september on energy supplies from third countries. and in this legislation on energy supply contracts with third countries, the danish presidency faced absolute opposition from the rest of the council. in fact, most of the council member states were not in favour of adopting this legislation at all in any form, and thanks to the leadership of the danish presidency, a compromise solution has been reached, which parliament will be able to vote on again in september, but which will take us one step closer to a common energy policy. so, all due respect and thanks to the danish presidency, which has devoted energy and effort not only to solving the economic crisis, but also to other issues that are important to us.
in writing. − according to rule 124 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, parliamentary committees may request to organise debates with the european economic and social committee on general and specific issues. such requests are approved by the european parliament without debates. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the solvency ii is an eu directive that codifies and harmonises the regulation of insurance in eu. when the omnibus ii directive is approved by the european parliament, solvency ii will come into effect on 1 january 2014. solvency ii will significantly reduce the risk of insolvency of insurance companies, therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − pursuant to article 355(6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) france requested and the council, after consulting the commission, adopted a decision amending the status of the island of saint-barthélemy from that of an outermost region to that of a country and territory associated with the european union. this change will have effect from 1 january 2012. to give effect to that european council decision, the council must, under article 203 tfeu, act unanimously on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, amend its decision on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i believe that reinforced cooperation in the mediterranean area, opened to all partners through a comprehensive macro-regional strategy, is essential for the best use of structural and cohesion funds with more added value for all regions as well as europe as a whole.
in writing. − this report covers the following changes: 1. the national regulatory body will be much stronger and more independent and there will be a network of national regulatory bodies to coordinate their decision-making: 6 weeks maximum for an ordinary complaint procedure. 2. a future european regulatory oversight is envisaged. 3. another important point is the agreement on stable financing of the infrastructure manager. the multiannual contractual agreement has a minimum duration of 5 years (instead of 3 years) and there is a provision making it compulsory for member states to balance the infrastructure manager's accounts over a period of maximum 5 years. 4. a major opening of the market of rail-related services compared to the council's intention was achieved.
in writing. − the european parliament approved on second reading a new railway directive which provides for improvements to the existing eu rail legislation. one of the successes, especially from the perspective of the baltic states, is the inclusion of a reference in the directive on the implementation of the principle of reciprocity between eu and third country rail freight transport operators. this principle provides that eu freight forwarders will have the same rights on third country markets as local businesses. the directive also regulates the activities of third-country companies on the eu market and their access to the eu railway infrastructure. unfortunately, the necessary number of votes was not obtained for the inclusion of the amendments in the final version of the articles of the directive, although these amendments were supported by the ep at first reading.
in writing. − although the original aim of the european commission's proposal for a revision of the tachograph regulation is to make use of new technologies, reduce the possibility of fraud, better implement social rules and reduce the administrative burden on both transport companies and the controlling public authorities, the position adopted by parliament today is not sufficiently thought out and balanced. technology is developing rapidly in all areas and the introduction of a new type of digital 'one-stop' tachograph is welcome. it will allow remote communication between the tachograph and the control equipment for control purposes, automatically recording precise location with the help of gnss and thus simplifying and facilitating the control. however, i do not think it is a good idea to require tachographs to be fitted in smaller lorries of over 2.8 tonnes instead of the current 3.5 tonnes. they're small vans. the benefits of reduced or improved traffic safety and control will offset the additional costs incurred by medium and small businesses. secondly, the amendment in the report to the effect that the individual employment contracts of international drivers are governed by the laws of the country in/from which the driver makes the majority of his journeys is in direct contradiction with international standards (i.e. the rome convention) and eu regulation on the law applicable to contractual obligations. in fact, it is a dangerous precedent for interfering with the basic principles and legal framework of the functioning of the internal market in order to deal with social provisions. i cannot therefore support the parliament's report on tachographs in general.
in writing. − the aim of the regulation proposal is to lay down the procedures enabling the customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods which they suspect of infringing intellectual property rights.
in writing. − obviously the water is a shared resource of humankind and a public good. access to water should constitute a fundamental and universal right. surely, i am in favour.
in writing. − this is a very important resolution because in the event of a severe road accident, an ecall-equipped vehicle will automatically trigger an emergency call. all road users will benefit from that kind of equipment. i am in favour.
in writing. − this report calls on the commission to present a strategy on how to make investment, in particular foreign direct investment, in europe more attractive. i voted in favour because i call on the commission to start working seriously.
in writing. − trade is a very important component of the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries. deep and comprehensive free trade agreements are vital instruments for building up long-term economic ties with our eastern partners and are important tools to foster economic reform, the rule of law and social and environmental standards in our neighbourhood. furthermore it is necessary to cooperate with all organisations where eastern neighbourhood countries are members.
for the gue/ngl group - the president! we believe that the 2013 budget is being developed as a base year for the new multiannual financial framework. direct payments are an important financial mechanism to ensure equal opportunities, solidarity and development. my group and my constituents in latvia believe that the correct determination of direct payments is not only necessary for a common, fair and equitable market, but also very important in the social field. i support, in my view, the very correct steps set out in the report by mr capoula santos luis manuel in this respect, and also the commission's position on this matter, but we must go further. we believe that direct payments should be at least 80% of the european union average. then we can talk about justice. farmers in latvia, lithuania and estonia receive direct payments. the ones you get today are discriminatory. this injustice must be corrected. this situation has already led to the fact that, for example, latvian farmers are leaving the country, and land is being bought cheaply by wealthy people in other countries. as a result, more and more new villages are losing their status as they are no longer inhabited and agricultural land is being replaced by forest. thank you to those who make sure that such things do not happen!
in writing. − this week the decision on payments to farmers of the latvian republic for the year 2012 was taken. neither the european commission nor the majority of members of european parliament are concerned about the fact that the issue remains unsolved and it is still very far from the tangible fairness. declaring the perfection of democracy and transparency of approaches to the problem of discrimination of farmers is pure populism. meanwhile netherlands' farmers receive in average three times higher direct payments than latvian. i am sure that such practice of double standards can lead to social explosion and mass protests from latvian, lithuanian and estonian farmers' side. i call on the commission and the european parliament to equalise the level of direct payments to all farmers in all eu member states.
in writing. − this is one of several commission proposals on alignment aiming to update the actual agricultural legislation to the new provisions as foreseen in the lisbon treaty. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu-russia agreement regarding the preservation of commitments on trade in services contained in the current eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement must be viewed in the light of the new legal framework arising from russia’s recent accession to the world trade organisation. i am in favour.
in writing. − the eu has negotiated this bilateral agreement to have a compensation mechanism for the eu car components producers if the risk of falling eu exports of such products to russia materialises as a result of the application of russia's automobile investment programme until 2018. i am in favour.
in writing. − in the context of the process of its accession to the wto, the russian federation has agreed to reduce its currently applied export duty rates on raw materials, including wood products. there is no achievement from mrs. vaidere. empty speech, many epithets, lack of sense. i abstained.
in writing. - i voted to postpone this question. since the majority of the european parliament considered that this matter needed to be resolved immediately, i abstained on the vote on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, because i believe that before taking a decision it is necessary to assess all the legal aspects, the provisions on the application of this agreement, which relate to freedom of expression. the european union and latvia have an interest in protecting intellectual property rights that will ensure income and safe trade of products for our entrepreneurs in other countries of the world. legislation needs to be designed to ensure both respect for freedom of expression and effective protection of property rights. as some in society are concerned about this agreement as restricting freedom of expression, its conformity with european union law needs to be assessed by the court of justice of the european communities.
in writing. − the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) is a multinational treaty aimed at establishing international standards for intellectual property rights enforcement. the agreement aims to establish an international legal framework for targeting counterfeit goods, generic medicines and copyright infringement on the internet. it was signed in tokyo in january by the eu and its member states. in may, the commission referred acta to the court of justice of eu for a legal opinion. the controversies surrounding acta are well known as meps have faced an enormous amount of lobbying. from the outset our group has fully acknowledged the many serious concerns that eu citizens and civil society have expressed about acta. however, due to the vagueness of the acta text i cannot support it. the are the following doubts on the text: the definition of "commercial-scale", the related use of criminal sanctions, the role of internet service providers in 'policing' the internet, the potential infringement on civil liberties and online privacy, potential impact on the transit of generic medicines, the treatment of counterfeited goods and piracy in the same way (both need to be tackled, but with appreciation of the differences between the two copyright violations).
in writing. − after trilogue negotiations, council and ep have reached a first reading agreement on this report. it's one of the reports included in the cap reform package and the first to be adopted. this "transitional" proposal has been set up to deal with financial provisions for 2013 concerning member states that joined the union after 2004. indeed, the new member states were allowed to grant complementary national direct payments as a consequence of the phasing-in of direct payments in those member states. such possibility will no longer be available in 2013. for that reason, and in order to avoid a sudden and substantial decrease of support in 2013 in those sectors benefiting until 2012 from complementary national direct payments it is appropriate to provide in those member states for the possibility to grant, subject to authorisation by the commission, transitional national aids to farmers in 2013. in order to ensure the continuity of the level of support to farmers in 2013, this piece of legislation must enter into force by 1 january 2013. we have been fighting for these amendments for a long time. i am totally unsatisfied with the decision but as a compromise it is a step forward. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu budget has a key role to play as a leverage tool to help eu member states to recover from the current economic and social crisis. the centre of priorities is the promotion of competitiveness, growth and jobs, especially in support of young people and small and medium sized enterprises. we need to concentrate resources in policies and programmes that are proven to be instrumental in achieving those objectives, in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the most important steps towards a european animal framework can be summarised as follows: enforcement of the link between animal health and public health. according to agri-committee the "one health" approach should also apply to the animal strategy since good husbandry of animals is a tool to reduce the spread of diseases and antimicrobial resistance. i voted in favour.
in writing. − european parliament calls on the commission to propose a legal framework on protection of pets and stray animals. that's great, then we can deal with insects and plants. i abstained.
in writing. − i think that eu policy of strict economy failed and i support any steps of reversing it. measures offered by the council are totally inefficient for crisis management and transformation of eu into democratic and open society for the benefit of all citizens. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i fully support the recommendation from the report. everyone should have access to the standard transactions of everyday life, regardless of factors such as financial situation, employment status, credit history or place of residence in the union. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in conjunction with the proposed amendments to the statute of the court of justice of the european union, proposals have also been brought forward to lay down rules for the appointment of temporary judges to the european union civil service tribunal. in favour.
in writing. − the european commission proposed in october 2011 to launch a pilot phase (mid 2012 - 2013) for project bonds to support european investments in 3 specific sectors: transport, energy and information and communication technologies. in favour.
in writing. − the execution of the 2011 budget led to a historically low surplus of eur 1.49 billion is entered in the 2012 budget. therefore, at the initiative of the budget 2012 rapporteur, francesca balzani, the budget committee proposed to transfer €0.73 billion under spent in 2011 to payments in 2012. i agree with that.
in writing. − according to palestinians in east jerusalem takes place continued settlement-building, house demolitions, evictions of palestinians, administrative restrictions relating to residency status, the separation wall, the permit regime, inequities in the education and health systems have a significant adverse impact on the daily life of palestinian residents. all these issues are inadequate. but information that the destruction by israel of infrastructure projects in the area, several of which have been funded by the eu and its member states is further hindering eu efforts in this field is a complete nonsense. i am against.
in writing. −today's vote on the sulphur content of marine fuels is a major step towards improving air quality on europe's coasts, given that pollution from ships could already exceed that from land-based sources by 2020. this directive implements the standards set by the international maritime organisation in 2008 in eu legislation with the aim of reducing the overall sulphur limit value in european seas to 0,5%. however, i cannot fully support the new directive, as the new thresholds provide for wide differences in the permissible sulphur emission levels between european regions, creating unequal competition not only in shipping but also in land transport. the sulphur emission control zones in the baltic sea, the north sea and the channel strait already have stricter standards than elsewhere in europe - the sulphur content of fuel must not exceed 1% by 2015 and 0,1% by weight thereafter. in other areas, such as the mediterranean, the sulphur threshold will have to be reduced from 3.5% to 0.5% by 2020. in the future, serious efforts will have to be made to ensure that the sulphur content of fuel in all european seas is the same as that set for the baltic sea.
in writing. − limitations on sulphur emissions from marine fuels are needed in general to reduce air pollution from ships, especially in coastal areas. as eu member states have agreed to stricter standards in sulphur emission control zones in the international maritime organisation, it is clear that eu standards now need to be aligned with their international commitments. however, due regard should be paid to ensuring fair competition in the shipping sector. unfortunately, the new directive, which was agreed by parliament and the council, will in future maintain considerable differences in sulphur emission levels between eu regions. i cannot support this directive because it does not ensure equal treatment of all member states within the eu's single market. different restrictions in the different coastal waters of europe place shipping companies in the baltic sea, the north sea and the channel in a less favourable competitive position both in relation to the same companies in other areas and in relation to land transport. in the future, efforts should be made to achieve uniform sulphur emission limits for fuel in all eu coastal waters. in order to ensure fair competition, sulphur emission standards should be set as uniformly as possible both in sulphur emission control areas and in other european sea basins. support for this position was found both in the transport committee and in the environment committee. to ensure the eu's overall competitiveness, this should be done at international level within the international maritime organisation by extending and designating new sulphur emission control zones.
the author. - chairman! the essence of the problem is that the reform of sugar production has transformed the european union from a sugar exporter into a sugar importer. many experts and producers believe that this is largely due to the introduction of a quota system, which has led to the closure of many sugar mills. this includes all three sugar factories in latvia. farmers and sugar producers are demanding that sugar production in latvia be restored, but the quota system does not allow this. the abolition of the quota system is also requested by the german industrial sugar consumers' coalition in a letter to me, adding that the sugar market does not need to be regulated by new and complicated methods, but that the sugar quotas should be abolished. the introduction of quotas reduced sugar production in europe to 80% of the required quantity. article 60 of the council of europe's cap states that the quota system is to be maintained until 2020 and it is planned to regulate sugar quantities at lower prices, but this is not realistic as the cost per hectare is almost the same for high and low sugar beet harvests. the extension of the quota period will continue to make it difficult for consumers of industrial sugar to plan their purchases, will increase consumer prices and will create obstacles to competition on the world market. this policy provides weak growth opportunities for the industry. i believe that regional production should be maintained and that additional production of sugar competing on the world market outside the european union should be allowed. it'll solve a lot of problems.
in writing. i support many of the ideas expressed in the state of the european union. the plan for the establishment of a european banking union and a single supervisory mechanism is particularly important. the fact that banks operate at a transnational level but are governed by national laws has created serious economic problems for us. i hope that this plan will not be implemented for the first time in the council of the european union in the multilingual discussions of the member states, but that the necessary decisions will be taken in the near future to enable the rapid establishment of an effective banking supervision mechanism. the last 24 hours of activity in financial markets shows that the euro has regained its credibility, and this gives us the time we need to restore economic growth. the european union institutions and the governments of the member states must be aware of the need to act decisively. at the same time, i doubt that all the elected political forces in this upper house understand the seriousness of the situation. member states need to make difficult and unpopular decisions that will create economic growth in the long term. without labour market reforms and productivity gains in the member states, sustainable growth cannot be achieved. these are issues that need to be discussed and resolved, and ignoring them only makes matters worse. the reforms implemented by the latvian government under the leadership of prime minister valda dombrovska are a great example for other european countries. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. – disregard the osce recommendations to abolish any restrictions to entitlement of citizenship for children of non-citizens of the latvian republic who were born after 21 august 1999 – the speaker of the latvian parliament, solvita aboltina, stated that the osce recommendations are just of an advisory nature. taking into account the fact that the latvian parliament and ruling coalition contain the pro-nazi political forces of latvia, there is nothing new in the statement of parliament’s speaker. but for the first time in the history of modern latvia it is precisely the speaker of the saeima who so cynically neglects the opinion of european union. last year already, when knut vollebæk, the osce high commissioner, mistakenly praised the latvian government for ‘successes’ in the integration, the speaker of the parliament, mrs aboltina, and the prime minister of latvia, mr dombrovskis, admired him. today, when vollebæk ‘has had his eyes opened’ on the situation in latvia, his recommendations are not needed. all that gives the right to assert that the latvian republic lives by double standards, supporting legislation where features of nationalism and racism are openly displayed! it is necessary to evaluate the statements and actions of members of the ruling coalitions and the prime minister of the latvian republic, which are leading to national conflict. the ‘cold war’ against russian-speaking children started in latvia. this war can lead to bad results.
in writing. − the reform of the common fisheries policy has long been needed to bring fisheries management under control, to ensure sustainable fish stocks, to stop overfishing and to ensure future income for fishermen. however, this scenario should offer a solution that balances the development of the economic sector, its environmental impact and the long-term social interest. fleet renewal does not automatically mean an increase in fishing capacity. if the fleet is completely worn out and old, modernisation measures alone are not sufficient to meet the requirements for safety, environmental protection and fuel economy. i therefore support the use of the new european fisheries fund not only for fleet modernisation but also for fleet renewal without increasing fishing capacity.
the rapporteur. − we know that we in the european union are very dependent on energy imports. in the gas sector, import dependency on third countries is already above 60%, with a clear upward trend in import dependency, and in the oil sector, it is already above 80%. of course, it is very important for us - for europe - to ensure a secure and stable supply of energy. how is that happening now? currently, each member state of the european union concludes bilateral agreements with a third country supplier for these energy supplies. but unfortunately, these contracts are completely opaque. except for the member state concerned, no one actually knows what is written there. and of course there is the possibility that european legislation is not fully complied with, in particular, there is the possibility that competition through fixed energy supply networks in the gas sector that she is not available to competition. what does this mean for us? this means that european consumers are likely to suffer from this situation. unfortunately, where there is no competition, the price will be higher, there is no european coordination, and there could even be a policy of 'short-sightedness and dominance' on the part of the supplier; each member state tries to do its best for itself. what is the solution? in february 2011, the european council, in its council conclusions, gave the commission a mandate asked the commission to come up with legislation to find a solution that could improve this situation. the commission has done so, and this is the legislation we are debating today. what's the basic proposal to simplify everything? it is proposed to establish a single information exchange mechanism where all member states would provide the commission with information on bilateral contracts. the commission would then not only be able to assess whether these contracts comply with european legislation and competition is nevertheless ensured in terms of infrastructure, but also to create a possibility of coordination where europe could start to speak with one voice with these third country energy suppliers. now, up to now, when we started to look at this bill in committee, we had a huge consensus that the commission's bill was not only to be supported, but that it needed to be set up even more tightly, with the commission playing an even more prominent role. more than 90% of the committee supports the final version. with this large mandate, i went to the trialogue with the council of europe, the so-called trialogue, and there we met, as all the shadow rapporteurs who were also present know, as against the wall. the european council did not, in fact, without expressing it, support this legislation. nevertheless, in working with the danish presidency in three trilogues, in three rounds of talks, we reached a compromise solution that would be acceptable to both parliament and the european council so that we could pass this legislation at all. and what is that solution? the solution is for the european commission to be able to set up the said information exchange mechanism, for member states to provide the european commission with all existing and future contracts for evaluation, and for the possibility to establish both compliance with the legislation and a single information base to help european countries negotiate with third country suppliers. what is not included is that the commission itself would have the right to intervene before the contract is concluded in order to remedy the problems in the initial version. the european council simply did not accept it. but i call on my colleagues to support this compromise, to support this legislation, we are moving towards a single european energy policy, we are moving towards safeguarding the interests of our consumers. thank you for your attention.
the speaker. − first of all, i would like to thank all those who have worked on this report, especially the shadow rapporteurs, who were there not only in committee but also in the trialogue with the council. we did what we could together. thank you, the danish presidency, of course, the commission itself for your support and all the debaters today. to sum up, let us remember what our main task is in the energy field in this particular case. we have to think about the european energy consumers, about competition, about the best, lowest, fairest prices for our citizens. this bill, although not perfect, is an important first step, it establishes this information exchange mechanism and it will lay the real foundations, the first legislative foundations, which will shape the future single external energy policy of the european union. there are others who criticize that they want everything at once, we want the perfect law at once. but, my friends, let's remember that to improve any law, and believe me, practically any law can be improved, some law must be passed first. there has to be a law. and this is the case where we have the opportunity to pass this law, take those first steps and, working together in the future, improve this law as necessary. thank you all for your work! i urge you to support it in the vote tomorrow.
in writing. − i supported this resolution because i believe that the russian judicial system uses disproportionate force against opposition politicians and activists. the eu-russia relations are based on mutual economic benefit, but it is important that the russian side respects values such as the rule of law and democracy. the european union cannot ignore the recent increasing trend towards the use of criminal law against those who are not in a position to exercise official authority. even though i don't accept the actions of the punk band pussy riot in the orthodox church, i still think that the punishment is disproportionate to the crime. this raises concerns about the increasingly frequent politically motivated intimidation and prosecution of opposition activists. he was also involved in the illegal 'separatist' activities of the 'donetsk people's republic'. for me, the discovery and punishment of those responsible for these murders is a test that would prove that russia is turning toward the rule of law. unfortunately, no one in their right mind can express more than an ironic wish that the murderers of opposition activists be found and brought to justice as quickly as the members of the punk band pussy riot. i am deeply convinced that we in the european parliament have no right to ignore human rights violations in russia.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i believe that there is a need for a banking union and a single supervisory mechanism in the european union. at the same time, i would like to stress that the european commission must develop this mechanism in a very high quality way so as not to distort competition in those member states where the euro has not yet been introduced. i can only regret that such a union and supervision were not created with the introduction of the single currency, because then several member states could have avoided the collapse of banks or their nationalisation. the european central bank will play a decisive role in this process. member states will have to override some of the ecb's supervisory role, which has caused controversy in several member states, but in the long run our financial situation will benefit from this. the ecb has not cast doubt on its independence and can take decisions without emotion, decisions which are much more difficult to take at national level. i believe that this is a decision that will help europe regain the confidence of the financial markets.
in writing. - the resolution 'towards a banking union' is to be welcomed. the creation of a banking union - at least within the euro area - is an important step towards breaking the direct dependence of the banking system on the debt situation and credit ratings of the member states. it is positive that the resolution refers to all three major elements of a potential banking union - central supervision, a common deposit guarantee scheme and a bank resolution scheme. the central resolution of banking problems in the member states is particularly important for the smallest member states of the european union, whose budgets are placed in a very tight situation in the event of a banking crisis, as the amount of deposits to be paid to them in the event of a bank failure can be enormous. the existence of a centralised deposit guarantee scheme would in many cases have prevented the initial failure of many banks, caused by the sudden withdrawal of large amounts of deposits for fear of losing them. it is essential that the resolution also calls attention to the impact of the establishment of the banking union within the euro area alone on non-euro area countries.
mr president, i would like to give some you some statistics. for using offensive language in a public place the punishment is as follows: in germany it is three days in prison, in france a financial penalty and in sweden corrective work. but if you speak in such a way in the orthodox church then the european parliament can nominate you for the sakharov prize. pussy riot, who spoke offensively to orthodox church believers, have been nominated by the european parliament for the sakharov prize. if i have understood correctly, if pussy riot were to have sex in the european parliament during the plenary sitting, some members would probably nominate them for a nobel peace prize. this is nonsense, but it is reality. ordinary hooligans have the opportunity to get the sakharov prize, to the shame of the european parliament.
in writing. parliament's position on the multiannual budgetary framework must be clear and firm - the budget proposed by the european commission must not be reduced. a reduced budget in the european union will have a negative impact on economic growth and competitiveness across the union, weakening its cohesion and solidarity and its capacity to overcome the crisis. any reduction will limit the possibilities to ensure a fairer distribution of direct payments and adequate funding of cohesion policy. i can only support the president of the european commission, mr barroso, who recently stressed at the final meeting of the group of friends of cohesion in bratislava that europe needs a political agreement. the richest countries must give their consent to a bold policy of supporting the less prosperous regions of europe, because this is a contribution to the growth of the european union as a whole. i understand the political difficulties in many member states when it comes to the union budget. however, i would like to remind you, together with the rapporteurs, that the eu budget represents only about 2% of total national expenditure in the union and is therefore 45 times less than the amount spent by national governments in national budgets.
in writing. − the general prosecutor’s office in vienna is going to conduct a preliminary investigation against martin ehrenhauser, mep. martin ehrenhauser is suspected of illegal access to a computer system, in violation of article 118 of the criminal code of austria, violating telecommunications secrets. as always, i voted against. i think that immunity should be kept until meps’ credentials expire.
in writing. − after studying draft amendments concerning appropriations under sections i, ii, iv, v, vi, vii, viii and ix of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, i abstained, because they are not correct and not transparent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. i would particularly like to stress the need to decide on the work of the european parliament in one place, rather than in brussels and strasbourg as has been the case so far. first, it would be a responsible approach to the taxpayers' money. secondly, like any directly elected parliament, the european parliament must have the right to decide on its seat. thirdly, this vote sends a clear message to the member states that the question of the seat of the ep must be settled at the next intergovernmental conference, which will be convened at some point to review the european treaties for the last time. fourthly, this process must begin with the development of a roadmap for moving to a single location for parliament, calculating all the costs, assessing the benefits and losses that will result from such a decision.
in writing. − i think that in the light of economic and budgetary constraints, the european parliament should show budgetary responsibility and self-restraint.
in writing. − state deficit and debts should be decreased in compliance with foreseen strategy on investment till the year 2020, ensuring jobs and high quality work. i would also add that authors should be responsible for taking risks.
in writing. − the european parliament has given its strong support to the resolution on the eu's multiannual budget for the period 2014-2020. it stressed the need to strike a balance between eu commitment expenditure and the budget available to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. there is often a complaint among member states that member states are being forced to follow austerity measures and reduce their budget deficits, but the eu is not reducing its spending. however, 94% of the eu budget is invested in european development, which finances programmes of importance to the member states and eu joint activities. the eu budget is one of the solutions and incentives that will allow europe to emerge from the current crisis. to overcome the crisis and its consequences and become a leading economy in the future, the eu needs to invest in areas that promote growth and create jobs, such as education, research and innovative, competitive manufacturing. the current proposal of the european commission, which provides for a reduction in the eu budget, is difficult to see as the eu's development budget for the next seven years. the european parliament will therefore be firm in its position in the negotiations with the european council, in order to reach a decision that is favourable to europe as a whole.
in writing. - the resolution is certainly worthy of support. in a situation where there is a move towards much greater eu centralisation, it is absurd to talk at the same time about the overall budget reduction often called for by individual large eu member states. the eu budget already transfers only about 1% of the eu's total gdp, or 2% of total government expenditure. it is worth noting that the resolution states that the eu budget should not be seen as an additional burden on its taxpayers by the donor countries, but that the use of eu funds is part of the solution to help europe emerge from the crisis by promoting growth, job creation, science, education, large-scale infrastructure projects, youth employment and improving the quality of life, etc. the resolution's assessment of eu cohesion policy as a strategic instrument for growth and competitiveness and a key pillar of solidarity among eu member states is essential. in its resolution, parliament stressed that cohesion policy must be based on a stable, sound and sustainable financial framework in order to effectively reduce macroeconomic imbalances and promote economic, social and territorial cohesion, stressing that cohesion funding should be maintained at least at the 2007-2013 level. it is also significant that the resolution calls for the cap to continue to allocate funding at least at the level planned for 2013, by channelling it in a more efficient way, including a fair distribution of direct payments between member states and regions.
in writing. − the draft report by mr dehaene welcomes the proposed simplification of the vat calculation method; it reiterates the need for the council to reach a political agreement on the proposals of the ec to enable the new system to enter into force during the period 2014-2020; it calls on the ec to make concrete proposals to ensure that genuine own resources would in the future accrue directly to eu budget.
in writing. − i agree that simplification has been the motivation throughout these negotiations, so that organisations applying for eu funds of different kinds are not deterred by the bureaucracy. other major concerns were making member states more accountable for the funds they manage, and ensuring that eu funds can be used as investment leverage in priority policies and areas of most need. therefore i supported the report.
in writing. − draft amending budget 4 translates in the eu budget (creation of new budget lines) the may 2012 agreement reached between council and ep to enable those member states experiencing or likely to experience serious difficulties with respect to financial stability to re-use/re-target some of the funds they receive in the frame of the cohesion policy via the setting up of risk-sharing instruments. the main idea is to address the problem of the lack of co-financing that has occurred in recent years in those countries by putting in place a financial engineering mechanism which should attract more easily private (and public) funding to complement the eu’s public funds.
in writing. − i fully support the efsa as it has a vital role in making our food safer. i acknowledge that the authority has taken important steps to address the issue of conflict of interests. therefore, the efsa should be granted discharge for the budgetary year 2010. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i fully support the ema as it helps make our medicines safer and more efficient. i acknowledge that the agency has implemented all necessary actions required by the report as voted in plenary in may 2012. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission proposal contains the extension (from dec 2012 till dec 2022) of council decision 2003/17/ec1 providing the list of countries to be recognised for the application of the equivalence principle for importation of fodder plant seed, cereal seed, beet seed and seed of oil and fibre plants from third countries. this proposal contains also an updating of third countries under the equivalent regime.
in writing. − in times of economic and social crisis, raising awareness of the rights attached to union citizenship can help restore citizens’ faith in the union project. european citizens should enjoy all fundamental rights. what is more, non-citizens, or those deprived of citizenship should also enjoy fundamental rights, i am in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i believe that the death of sergei magnitsky and many other events in russia point to a serious breach of fundamental human rights in russia and to the dependence of the judiciary on political power. only in autocratic regimes and dictatorships is the criminal justice system used to target opposition, to protect the freedom of opinion of citizens, or to protect the power elite from justice and punishment for criminal offences. i consider that the proposed specific restrictions on those responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky serve as a serious warning to the russian authorities and may significantly influence the actions of russian officials in the future. i sincerely hope that these restrictions will change the climate of impunity that exists in that country. i am pleased that more and more european policymakers are recognising the need for a strong, influential and comprehensive eu policy towards russia. this policy will only succeed if cooperation, support and assistance are balanced by strong and fair criticism, including sanctions and restrictions where appropriate.
in writing. − the rapporteur comes with a proposal from the european parliament to the council to establish visa restrictions for russian officials involved in case of sergey magnitsky.
in writing. − the progress and the greater need for political support in order to guarantee a successful and timely implementation of the ses legislation are needed.
in writing. − passengers’ right are in the core of our transport policy. we need better information and the enforcement of current legislation and it is necessary to strengthen passengers’ right in the forthcoming legislation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the parliament's report on passenger rights is to be welcomed because it calls, firstly, for greater legal clarity on passenger rights in all modes of transport. for each mode of transport - air, rail, water and land - passenger complaints are dealt with in different member states and passenger rights issues are dealt with by different supervisory bodies. as a result, there is often a lack of clarity on the legal rules governing the treatment and complaints procedure. in future, therefore, passenger rights, including rights to compensation, reimbursement and information, must be based on a single legal framework for all modes of transport, taking account of the specificities of each mode of transport. the report also points out that air transport still often differs in its definition of flight delays and cancellations. the second essential point is the need to define more clearly the concept of 'exceptional circumstances', since a technical defect cannot be regarded as an exceptional circumstance and is the responsibility of the carrier. it is good that the parliament's report returns once again to a question which was already dealt with in another report recently, namely the basic price of tickets. it should also include costs related to the legal obligations of the carrier, such as safety, security and passenger rights, and the provision of tickets and boarding passes or the carriage of minimum luggage, as well as all costs related to payment, such as credit card fees.
in writing. − the parliament is bringing to light as much information as possible on the way all institutions implement their budgets, including the council, but at this stage insufficient information has been provided to allow an informed granting of the discharge for 2010.
in writing. − i think that the eea should be granted discharge for the budgetary year 2010, therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − mr leonard orban was member of the european commission and currently serves as a member of the romanian government responsible for european affairs. although during the hearing in the committee on budgetary control he displayed a high level of knowledge and experience and showed that he is fully qualified for the job, i abstained.
in writing. − this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 696 382 from the egf for ireland. it concerns 592 redundancies, of which 432 are targeted for assistance, in talk talk broadband services (ireland) and three of its suppliers in ireland during the four-month reference period from 7 september 2011 to 7 january 2012 and a further six redundancies outside the reference period, but related to the same collective redundancies procedure.
in writing. − this is the sixth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 4 325 854 from the egf for sweden. the application cites 543 redundancies in astrazeneca during the four-month reference period from 15 june 2011 to 15 october 2011. i supported this application.
in writing. − this is the tenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 4 325 854 from the egf for spain and constitutes spain’s 19th application for egf mobilisation since the fund’s inception. the application cites 878 redundancies in 35 enterprises operating in manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment in the region of galicia during the nine-month reference period from 23 march 2011 to 23 december 2011. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the eighth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 898 594 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 516 redundancies, of which 435 are targeted for assistance, in 54 enterprises operating in construction of buildings in the region of gelderland in the netherlands during the nine-month reference period from 1 february 2011 to 1 november 2011.
in writing. − this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 494 008 from the egf for the netherlands. it concerns 616 redundancies, all of which are targeted for assistance, in zalco aluminium zeeland company nv and in two supplier firms (ecl services netherlands bv and start) in the netherlands during the short reference period from 1 to 27 december 2011. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is the eleventh application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 11 949 666 from the egf for france. it concerns 2 089 redundancies, all of which are targeted for assistance, in psa peugeot citroën over the four-month reference period between 1 november 2009 and 28 february 2010 as well as redundancies resulting from the same redundancy plan based on voluntary departures, also in psa peugeot citroën, but outside the reference period. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is the thirteenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 7 488 000 from the egf for denmark. the application concerns 720 redundancies in wind turbine manufacturer vestas group in denmark, all of which occurred during the four-month reference period from 8 february 2012 to 8 june 2012.
in writing. − this is the twelfth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 352 944 from the egf for germany. the application concerns 2 177 redundancies in manroland ag and 62 in two of its subsidiaries, as well as 45 in one supplier (gefinal systema), making a total of 2 284 redundancies, of which 2 239 occurred during the four-month reference period from 1 january 2012 to 30 april 2012. i voted in favour.
in writing. − dual use items are products and technology that can be used both for peaceful and military purposes. this regulation sets up the conditions in which these items are exported. more transparency is needed with regard to the export authorisations of these goods. therefore i favour a system of ex-ante controls.
in writing. − it is of utmost importance that crews being trained in different countries and under different systems operating on board the same ship have the capacities needed to perform their duties in a safe manner. training, in fact, plays an important role in maritime safety. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu-israel agreement on the conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products is a protocol to the wider eu-israel association agreement. this technical agreement would mean that industrial products (namely pharmaceutical products) are not subject to two sets of assessment procedures, when they leave israel and enter the eu. however, the jurisdiction of the responsible israeli authorities to administer this poses problems – the jurisdiction of such authorities could cover illegal settlements and areas brought under israeli control in 1967, something which we should not recognise. it could also mean that palestinian products would be at a disadvantage and could be discriminated against by such an agreement. i voted in favour, since products should not be associated with politics.
in writing. − i support the principle of differentiation according to which some upper middle income countries such as brazil, china and india will stop receiving bilateral aid and eu development policy will focus on countries most in need having a better impact in reducing poverty, but we want to modify the criteria used for ‘differentiating’ (not only on the basis of gni) and consider transitional periods. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the communications ‘reinforcing competitiveness’ and ‘small business, big world’ and the report ‘minimising regulatory burden for smes’ propose a ‘new’ industrial policy with the aim of reinforcing competitiveness, to promote and support smes’ economic activities outside the european union and to set out concrete actions to minimise the regulatory burdens on smes and micro-enterprises. for the s&d group it is problematic to accept a premise of the commission thinking – namely those smes and micro-enterprises should be exempt from european legislation on health and safety at work and on workers’ rights. amendments in committee stressed that health and safety at work and workers’ protection cannot be considered administrative burdens, and that fundamental workers’ rights and occupational safety and health should not be jeopardised by the reduction of documentation and reporting obligations. i disagree with that, since the specificity of small enterprises does not provide an opportunity to guarantee social guaranties and protection for employees. i voted against.
in writing. − since the report calls for progress on removing trade barriers, better market access, better protection of intellectual property rights, opening up of public procurement but most importantly calls for progress on tackling trade barriers, i voted in favour.
in writing. − with the aim of the correct and smooth application of the interim agreement, this implementing regulation is proposed, to lay down rules and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of these agreements.
in writing. − annex i to decision 2003/17/ec lists yugoslavia as a country under an equivalence regime. some new countries now replace the former yugoslavia. slovenia is a member of the european union, croatia is already recognised as equivalent by decision 2003/17/ec, and serbia should be added as being a member of the oecd scheme for the varietal certification of seed moving in international trades and member of the international seed testing association (ista) as regards the seed sampling and testing. hence, yugoslavia should be deleted. other countries from the former yugoslavia cannot be added, not being members of the oecd and ista. but it is understandable. under thorough examination it becomes clear what kind of disorder is in the european commission. i am in favour.
in writing. − the current 12-mile zone was put into place in the first cfp regulation in 1983. article 6 of council regulation (eec) no 170/83 established that the zone would be in place from 1 january 1983 until 31 december 1992; equivalent provisions were enacted in the subsequent cfp reforms (council regulation (eec) no 3760/92 and council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002). the current basic regulation (council regulation 2371/2002 of 20 december 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy) will remain in force until a new regulation has been adopted, except for a provision in its article 17(2) on access rules and restrictions for the 12 nautical miles waters which expires on 31 december 2012. taking into account that a new basic regulation will not be adopted before that date, the provisions of this article will no longer apply. the necessity to avoid that gave the green light to the report. but why is this at the last moment? what was the european commission doing earlier?
in writing. − as is known, geographical indication is a name or sign used on certain products which corresponds to a specific geographical location or origin (e.g. a town, region, or country). the use of a geographical indication may act as a certification that the product possesses certain qualities, is made according to traditional methods, or enjoys a certain reputation, due to its geographical origin. for example, champagne, cognac. if i understand correctly from now on moldavian products will be named ‘wine with gas’, ‘grape alcohol from a barrel’! it is just excellent! i voted in favour.
in writing. − today, hunger and food insecurity remain global challenges. while substantial progress has been made on a number of fronts in the past decade, progress on hunger and malnutrition have remained stubbornly slow. in 2010 an estimated 925 million people or 13.6 % of the world population did not have enough to eat, despite decreases in income poverty in several regions. 98% of the world’s undernourished live in developing countries. 60% of them are women. malnutrition is an underlying cause of more than a third of children’s deaths, an estimated 2.6 million a year. nearly one in five children under the age of five in the developing world is underweight. long-term undernutrition has left millions of children suffering from stunting (low height for age), putting them at risk for diminished cognitive and physical development. the number of people worldwide affected by disasters, including as a consequence of global climate change, is on the rise.
in writing. − union citizens can now safely rely on protection and assistance from the consular services of other member states or union delegations. i am in favour.
in writing. − removing barriers to the single market is crucial to overcoming the current crisis. this could foster faster economic development without requiring additional funds for the creation of rescue and growth funds, and thus foster innovation, growth, competitiveness, job creation and greater trust in the market. however, european citizens still face various difficulties and discriminatory requirements in the single market. for example, opening bank accounts, not being able to exercise the option of switching energy suppliers because of the lack of clear and comparable information. the changeover to an internet service provider is still complex and expensive in many places, and there is no real digital market in the european union. the list could go on and on. but the most important thing today is to give a new impetus to the development of the single market. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposals on governance, information, transposition and the direction of certain legislative acts.
in writing. − the economic, financial and social crisis that has affected europe since 2008 has had a strong impact on the single market, causing citizens to take a negative view of it while the european institutions and the member states have become aware that the single market has not been fully exploited. this document highlights the 20 most common concerns that european union citizens and businesses experience when travelling or working abroad. the european commission document addresses issues such as professional qualifications, social security, tax obstacles, access to finance, on-line purchasing, pension portability, etc. i voted in favour.
in writing. − although the s&d group decided to vote against the appointment of yves mersch i voted in favour because the gender of an official cannot be considered as a main condition for taking up a post.
in writing. − it was urgent that the regulation be brought into conformity with the decision by the european court in its recent ruling in the brossman case. nonetheless, in order to ensure legal certainty and in line with the council’s position and in agreement with the commission, the committee on international trade will table an amendment to ensure that the investigation for dumped goods takes place in a defined timeframe, normally within seven months but not later than eight months of the initiation of the investigation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is crucial for the eu to comprehensively deepen its economic and trade relationships with major global economies such as japan in order to maximise the jobs and growth potential under the eu 2020 strategy. the eu’s bilateral trading volume with japan is dramatically lower than with other partners. the huge potential of the eu-japanese commercial relationship has not yet been realised to the benefit of eu businesses, workers and consumers. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report maintains that policy coherence for development (pcd) can contribute to poverty reduction by finding fundamental synergies among eu policies and underlines that pcd is a chance for the eu to establish equal and sustainable partnerships with developing countries that go beyond development cooperation. i voted in favour.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is, i think, perfectly clear to all of us that no individual, no family, no country can spend more money than it has on a long-term basis. but at the same time, it must be understood that at the government level, balancing the budget between expenditure and revenue is not contrary to economic growth. i repeat, the so-called austerity policies are not opposed to economic growth. let's look at my country, latvia. at a time when our economy was shrinking rapidly, the government had no choice but to cut its spending because government revenues were also shrinking, there was simply no other choice. but what our government did at the same time (which is often forgotten) is cut overall spending, the government actually increased long-term investment in the economy at the same time. the government increased its co-financing of the european structural funds, thus ensuring continued economic growth. what is happening in our country today? yes, unfortunately we are still a relatively poor european country, but unlike many other countries, our economy is back on the growth track. we're seeing this growth, and this growth is only possible because we've invested in long-term development at the same time that we had to save money. ladies and gentlemen, the coordination of european economic policy is a very important matter and we must continue to do so in the future. thank you for your attention. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
answer to the blue card question. if we in europe could solve our problems by borrowing money, we would not have a crisis, that's for sure. it is imperative that we all understand that in all member states throughout the european union as a whole, we have to balance government revenues with expenditure. what works in my country will work in every other country because to put our citizens in even deeper debt is a policy that leads to nowhere.
madam president, i have carefully studied both the position of the european commission and the opinions of my colleagues. political concerns should not affect expectations of cooperation with russia. that would not be beneficial for russia or for the european union. i agree with mr šefčovič that we have shown pragmatism with regard to trade, but there are further problems. one should take into account that in latvia there are two border control points – grebneva and terehova – where the problem of crossing the eu border has not yet been solved and thousands of eu cars are stuck waiting day and night for the possibility to cross the border. the latvian government cannot solve this problem without the help of the european commission, meaning that representatives of all european countries are involved. it is necessary to quickly conduct negotiations with the representatives of russia and to swiftly find a solution to this problem. i am prepared to visit, together with the representatives of the european commission, the border control points at terehova and grebneva to study the situation on the spot. we are talking about the main arterial highway from the european union to russia.
in writing. – two months after russia’s accession to the wto i share the concerns of my european colleagues regarding the unjustified temporary import bans, unilateral temporary tariff increases and protectionist measures in trade, introduced or extended by russia. today we note that in the run-up to the completion of its wto accession russia has not been fully living up to its future wto obligations, and call on russia to remove barriers to open and fair trade, which do damage to eu exporters. the opening of russia’s economy to more international trade and investment should serve as an incentive for the russian government to pursue reforms fighting corruption, implementing the rule of law and enhancing the business climate. in this context, remembering that today is the ninth anniversary of the arrest of former head of yukos mikhail hodorkovsky – a clear example of the business climate remaining unfavourable in russia – i join my colleagues in demanding an independent and impartial investigation into the yukos case.
in writing. − innovative financial instruments cover a rather broad range of interventions such as participation in equity (risk capital) funds, guarantees to local banks lending to a large number of final beneficiaries, for instance small and medium-sized enterprises or risk-sharing with financial institutions to boost investment in large infrastructure projects. the aim of such interventions is to boost the real economy through increasing the access to finance for enterprises and industry producing goods and service. i think that we need such instruments in order to promote growth and jobs in the eu.
in writing. − i think that this is a good compromise text and a strong starting point to start negotiations with the council. our main achievements concern high-frequency trading and commodity and agricultural derivatives. i think that we need to adopt this resolution because it will increase transparency and reduce speculative practices with the overall aim of defending investors and having transparent and efficient financial markets.
in writing. − i think that we need to adopt this resolution because it will increase transparency and reduce speculative practices with the overall aim to defend investors and have transparent and efficient financial markets.
in writing. − russia concluded negotiations on accession to the wto after 18 years of negotiations on 10 november 2011 and was officially accepted as a member on 16 december 2011. despite the restrictive measures, taken by russia, including a ban on imports from the eu of live animals, legislation containing preferences for domestic producers in public procurement, and decisions establishing seasonal import duties and new legislation concerning recycling scheme for vehicles imposed by russia, i believe that accession to the wto can facilitate trade flows between the eu and russia, while stimulating economic growth and job creation on both sides
in writing. − the parliamentary elections held in belarus on 23 september once again failed to meet international standards for free and fair elections. reports of irregularities seriously call into question the validity of the elections’ outcome and the legitimacy of the elected parliamentarians. the s&d group continues strongly to condemn the deteriorating situation regarding human rights and fundamental freedoms combined with the lack of deep democratic and economic reforms in belarus. the s&d group demands the unconditional and immediate release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners. the eu should continue to support all initiatives aimed at developing the belarusian democratic civil society, which could result in increasing belarusians’ political participation and rising awareness of the need for change.
in writing. − today’s resolution on the situation in belarus after the parliamentary election of 23 september 2012 unfortunately, resembles other ep documents adopted with regard to the political situation in that country. it once again points out that elections there fail to meet basic democratic standards and are unfair, non-free and non-transparent; it urges the belarusian government to ensure democratic elections in the future and to respect human rights, and the eu council and commission to support initiatives aimed at developing belarusian civil society. we need to continue to repeat these statements and calls in order to support the efforts of belarusian democratic political forces and civil society activists, aimed at improving and democratising the lives of belarusian people. therefore, today i voted in favour of this joint resolution.
in writing. − while the european union congratulates the people of georgia on the free and fair parliamentary elections of 1 october 2012 and welcomes the democratic transfer of power, we must remain fully committed to georgia’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. we must not forget that the georgian territories of south ossetia and abkhazia are still de facto occupied by the russian armed forces and that, despite the agreement signed in 2008 by the russian federation, access for the eu monitoring mission to these territories remains hindered. the resolution on the elections in georgia adopted today calls on russia to withdraw its troops from abkhazia and south ossetia. it also stresses the need for georgia’s new government to maintain the country’s engagement in the geneva international discussions on security and stability in the south caucasus. the european parliament expects the new government to continue cooperation with the eu and nato, in line with the expressed commitments on the incoming government’s part. as someone who witnessed the devastation of the war of 2008, i believe that georgia’s euro-atlantic integration is a strong guarantee of the country’s security and stability. therefore i supported today’s resolution on georgia.
mr president, i would like to speak about what took place in latvia on 1 november 2012 when the central election commission decided to reject the application for a referendum aimed at solving the mass statelessness problem in latvia. it was the first case in more than twenty years of latvia’s history when a draft law supported by more than 10 000 signatures, certified by notaries, was not officially submitted to the next stage as a state-organised collection of signatures. we regard this case as a threat to democracy in latvia. the absence of official status for the russian language and mass statelessness are a cornerstone problem for the russian speakers in latvia and i invite those colleagues who want to learn more about this issue to attend the hearings of the intergroup for traditional minorities which take place this thursday here in parliament before the vote.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. − madam president, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur wim van de camp on the agreement reached by the council and by parliament. in the committee on transport we looked at this proposal mainly from a road safety aspect because moped and motorcycle accidents represent around 16% of the total number of road deaths in the eu. i therefore welcome the fact that the agreed text will tackle in the most optimal way the road safety performances of motor bikes, mopeds, scooters and quads and will lay down the most appropriate and effective safety measures and technical requirements. i also welcome the inclusion of off-road quads under this regulation because this was one of the transport committee’s proposals. indeed these quads, which are often designed for use off-road, are driven on public roads and should therefore fulfil the minimal functional safety requirements. as regards anti-lock braking systems and combined braking systems for motorbikes, the transport committee considered that achieving the maximum achievable level of safety was a top priority. if future impact assessment demonstrates that anti-lock braking systems can assure the best braking performances for all performance motorbikes, then this should be addressed in this regulation if the case has been proven. finally, i support the solution which has been found for the inclusion of enduro trial motorcycles within the scope of this regulation.
mr president, colleagues! i want to briefly remind you of what we all learned, like, at two, maybe three years old. i mean, i've seen my kids at home, when they start playing with the bricks, they quickly learn that to build a brick house, they start with the first row at the bottom, then leave maybe a window box somewhere, then a window, then put up some walls and maybe a bit of a roof rafter. but what does it look like now, how are we in europe trying to deal with the crisis? it seems that we have collectively forgotten what we learned as children. and we're not building something from the foundation, but here one runs with the windows, here another comes with the tiles, a third something about the foundation, and a fourth already about the roof covering. as a result, we simply don't have it together, and the proof of that is that the financial markets still don't believe that we in europe are finding the solution. banking union is something that i think not only the majority, but the vast majority of us understand very well that this is the direction we should go. but, dear friends, i would remind you and remind you that we must build it from the foundations, and on these foundations we must not make a distinction between euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries, because in europe our foundation is the single market, and the single market is the 27 member states of the european union. we do not have a twenty-seven-speed europe, we do not have a two-speed europe, we have a one-level, one-speed europe. we need to lay those foundations, including by thinking about how we can build a banking union on the right foundations, which will strengthen our economic links rather than weaken them.
in writing. − the regulation provides clear rules for access to justice and is of utmost importance for citizens and businesses. in an increasingly globalised world where eu citizens live and work outside the eu the reflexive effect is vital to defend their fundamental right of access to justice, and not to discriminate on grounds of domicile. it is vital also to implement the resolution of 11 march 2004 on non-citizens in latvia. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the purpose of the regulation is to restrict the access of the general public (private users) to high-risk chemicals suitable for easy misuse in producing home-made explosives. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it allows the recruitment of croatian officials on a national basis. i am in favour.
in writing. − the offshore protocol is one of the protocols to the ‘barcelona convention’ for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean: it covers a wide range of exploration and exploitation activities, as well as permit requirements, removal of installations, harmful substances, coordination at regional level, and provisions on safety, contingency planning and monitoring.
in writing. − under the new protocol, the joint committee will decide on the fishing opportunities for the subsequent year, taking into account scientific advice, the precautionary approach, the needs of the fishing industry and the minimum quantities for maintaining greenlandic fishing activities. i voted in favour.
in writing. − a high level of consumer protection in the fields on consumer credit is the key for improving financial inclusion and for boosting consumption and growth within the internal market. the legislation should be drafted; there are too many directives. i abstained.
in writing. − the own-initiative report prepared by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is to be welcomed as a successful complement to the directive on consumer credit agreements already in force in the european union. the report contains a number of important recommendations that could strengthen the protection of consumer rights in the member states of the european union. for example, in many countries consumers are often unaware of the risks and costs involved in choosing to borrow in another currency. therefore, the report recommends, inter alia, that the consumer watchdogs of the member states require financial institutions to provide consumers with a tailored, complete and easily understandable explanation of the relevant risks associated with loans in foreign currency. the report also calls on member states to extend the scope of existing consumer protection monitoring, as the current directive does not provide for consumer protection for loans below €200. this call is welcome, given the growing activity of so-called micro-lenders in many countries, particularly in eastern europe, offering short-term, small-volume loans at huge interest rates.
in writing. − budget consolidation needs to be complemented by a social investment strategy (reference to our call for a social pact / possible social investment pact as part of our social pact). we need social governance to counterbalance economic governance.
in writing. − encouragement policy and more dynamic and responsive information to new demands of agricultural products is an important element of the new cap after 2012. i am in favour.
in writing. − europe has to guarantee minimum rights to artists and heirs on the international art market.
in writing. − the report on rule 70 of parliament's rules of procedure on interinstitutional negotiations in legislative procedure has the aim to increase the democratic accountability by introduction of binding rules for negotiations in legislative procedures.
in writing. − taking into account the current economic crisis, the report stresses the importance of limiting the current dual system (translation and interpretation). it takes around four months for these verbatim reports to be translated into all 23 languages, and costs eur 8.6 million per year. the proposal is to stop the automatic translation of all proceedings and instead to publish a multilingual document with all speeches appearing in the original language they were given in. members would retain the right to request that parts of the proceedings are translated into another language.
in writing. − we achieve higher safety standards for road users and lower emissions from two-wheel type vehicles in order to protect the environment as well as guaranteeing the well functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − harmonising and uplifting technical rules and standards on agricultural vehicles is a means to strengthening functional and occupational safety for users and workers as well as to guaranteeing good functioning of the internal market and boosting competitiveness of the eu industry.
in writing. − i think that the development of an integrated european card, internet and mobile payment system should be based on a high level of consumer protection. consumers’ confidence is a key condition to the development of card and internet payment. the eu should therefore develop a consistent legal framework ensuring more competition, more transparency and more security. i voted in favour.
in writing. − full oversight of shadow banking is needed in order to capture risky transfers and ensure consumer protection. i totally support the front line to ensure that no actor and no instrument remains outside the regulatory radar – we fight to obtain fairer, more stable and more efficient financial markets, again primarily at the service of the real economy. it is high time shadow banking was eliminated.
in writing. − only a comprehensive combination of legal, technical and educational means including prevention can adequately address the dangers that children face in the online environment. in favour.
in writing. − social enterprises often provide social services and are important drivers of sustainable employment, social innovation and the inclusion of vulnerable groups. adequate financial and political support for social enterprises should therefore be ensured at union and member state level.
in writing. − this own-initiative report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, with its accompanying recommendations, sets the stage for a more integrated euro area and european union. although the first stage towards genuine economic and monetary union banking union is fraught with difficulties and is increasingly marked by divergent national interests and prejudices, these should not be reasons for not pursuing the ambitious framework that can help to resolve the current crisis and prevent a future one. in addition to the single banking supervisory mechanism, agreement should soon be reached on the mechanisms of the common deposit guarantee fund, etc. and, consequently, on the appropriate union budget to finance them. member states that are prejudiced against the unequal costs of crisis-resolution mechanisms need to realise that the benefits of the single market and the currency have been enjoyed by all and it is only fair that in difficult times all take responsibility. similarly, the union banking sector must be viewed as a whole, given that it is characterised by inter-branch activities. a solidarity mechanism for solving banking problems financed by credit institutions is the right way to prevent bank failures from turning into national failures. it is in everyone's interest to achieve a sustainable future for the union by treating everyone fairly.
in writing. − the report stresses the crucial role of the acp national parliaments, local authorities and non-state actors in the drafting and monitoring the country and regional strategy papers and the implementation of the european development fund (edf) and calls for greater involvement of meps in its meetings and activities as well as welcoming the renewed attendance by the eu council at its sessions in 2011. i voted in favour.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i want to congratulate our rapporteur, mr coelho, on his significant work on the reports concerning the transition to sis ii and i wish him further success on the file. as you may know, our verts/ale group is extremely cautious about biometrics in all files and since sis ii introduces the processing of biometric data, we have consistently expressed our awareness of data protection. we are now glad that our concerns on data protection and on the necessity of the final deadline are being fully taken into account. therefore, our group can support the initiative as we did in september 2008 when we supported migration instruments, and in may 2010 when the current migration instruments were being amended. nevertheless, we do not think that splitting the proposal into two almost identical documents is the best solution from the point of view of the simplification of legislation, but as it has already been decided we will however support it. we do not understand the concern of the commission regarding the proposal from the european data protection supervisor and then from the rapporteur on the deletion of non-protected data. we do not think this is a problem. we also fully support the rapporteur on maintaining the deadline for transition in the migration instrument at the end of june 2013. we have heard from the council about the first half of 2013, but if we have this date in the report then we are sure that if once again we have problems with the transition to sis ii then another solution has to be found.
i'll write. the multiannual budget of the european union (eu) is an investment budget for development. it's not a consumption budget. investments in the achievement of the common objectives and obligations of the european union bring a high added value to european countries as a whole. however, the budget must be adequate to achieve these objectives. particular emphasis should be placed on investments in cohesion policy, agriculture and research, education, which are essential cornerstones of eu development. the current approach of the european council excludes development. if the eu's multiannual budget cannot or is not at all likely to deliver on the ambitious goals of the europe 2020 strategy, both the european council and the presidency should make a fair announcement. unlike the lisbon strategy, however, it was not discussed at all, knowing in advance that it would not be achieved. one of the eu's values is solidarity. i hope that the promises made to the baltic states will be put into practice. actions speak louder than words. in conclusion, the only way we can get out of this crisis is to invest in our common development in a targeted and appropriate way.
in writing. − i am sure that mr borg would be a good commissioner. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this draft amending budget 5/2012 relates mainly to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in italy for a total amount of eur 670 million in commitments and payments. i think that we should support each other. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this application relates to the earthquake that affected the region of emilia-romagna in may 2012, causing the death of 27 persons and leaving more than 350 injured, and over 45 000 people had to be evacuated. there was serious and widespread damage to buildings, infrastructures, businesses, cultural heritage and agriculture and the disruption of major transport links and essential public infrastructure networks.
in writing. − adoption of an implementing regulation amending regulation no 2658/87 is needed in order to implement provisions of agreements concerning the modification of concessions with respect to processed poultry meat signed by the european union with brazil and thailand in june 2012. very useful report. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the context of its accession to the world trade organization (wto), the russian federation has agreed to reduce its currently applied export duty rates on raw wood products. this agreement establishes general provisions on the implementation of the specific quota shares allocated to the eu. since the agreement provides that quantities of the eu share of the tariff-rate quotas shall be managed by the eu, and that the russian federation shall issue export licences based on the relevant import documentation issued by the eu, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the ep is asked to give its consent to the re-negotiation of tariff concessions in the framework of article xxviii and agreements reached with thailand and brazil on the import of poultry meat which result from this renegotiation. the eu had to renegotiate these tariff concessions because foreign exporters seemed to take advantage of a relative gap in the level of protection by reducing chicken meat content in preparations to less than 57%, thus qualifying for different tariff lines. in the future, similar substitution effects were likely to take place under other tariff lines, covering other types of processed poultry. as the surge in prepared poultry meat imports has negatively affected the european poultry industry, the commission was authorised by the council to negotiate the modification of concessions on poultry meat. i voted against, because experiments which result in such effects tells us that documentation should be prepared thoroughly.
in writing. − this report is a technical change to a mistake in existing legislation. it is not to be confused with the recently adopted caa agreement. in november 2005, the council authorised the commission to conduct negotiations within the framework of the euro-mediterranean agreement in order to achieve greater liberalisation of trade in agricultural products, processed agricultural products and fish and fishery products with certain mediterranean countries. the israeli embassy signalled a technical problem with customs duties charged on the import of chemically pure lactose originating in israel. after analysing this, the commission services agreed that, during negotiations to align the agreement with the wto definition, the commission had unintentionally withdrawn an existing tariff concession. i am surprised by these debates and results. such problems to be solved more attentively. i abstained.
in writing. − the report recommends that the european parliament gives consent to the conclusion of this agreement relating to the administration of tariff-rate quotas applying to exports of wood from russia to the eu. the eu has a strong offensive interest in this agreement as it provides for significant improvement in the supply of wood from russia. it is paramount to avoid recurrence of the consecutive increases in wood export duties applied by russia since 2007, which affected many eu producers. it is known that mrs vaidere is a russophobe and therefore she prepared an inapt report.
in writing. − the sis ii is an essential instrument with which to increase the security of the schengen area, end intergovernmental management of the system and considerably improve data protection and the fundamental rights of individuals. the sis ii should, therefore, enter into force at the earliest possible date. i totally agree with that.
in writing. − the european union must allow member states to exploit the energy resources at their disposal, which is why i supported the european parliament's report on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction. the extraction of shale gas requires strict environmental requirements, which at the same time do not limit the use of this energy resource. therefore, there is a need for clarity on environmental requirements and standards that would allow companies to develop shale gas extraction. carbon dioxide is an important resource that could potentially allow the european union to diversify its gas sources. therefore, at a time when member states' dependence on imported energy sources is only increasing, it is necessary to make it possible to obtain energy from sources within member states by setting clear environmental requirements.
in writing. − tough environmental legislation on shale gas exploration and exploitation. no hydraulic fracturing in sensitive areas. sole declarations regarding that are not enough. detailed measures to be adopted. i am in favour.
in writing. − there is a need to proceed with great caution on shale gas. it could be an opportunity for security of energy supply but there is a need to have the full facts to assess if the benefits outweigh the costs and downsides. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the main focus of the committee on petitions’ work during 2011 has been on the environment and fundamental rights/justice. fundamental values are forgotten, namely human rights in eu. i voted against.
in writing. − multiannual plans are a fundamental fisheries conservation tool used by the eu and they have been blocked within the council for two years. i disagree with the blockage and i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament has approved a new regulation establishing a multiannual plan for the conservation of baltic salmon stocks. the baltic cod is a species of european importance whose stocks are rapidly declining, and it is therefore essential to work towards the development of multiannual plans to ensure a sustainable fisheries policy and guarantee long-term stability for european fishermen. however, the amendments made to the regulation, such as the prohibition of artificial farming outside wild salmon, the strict rules and controls for recreational fisheries, the excessive ambition and unattainable targets for juvenile fish production and the principles that are different from those of the common fisheries policy, are strong enough to prevent me from supporting this regulation as a whole.
in writing. − article 290 and 291 of the lisbon treaty replace the old comitology procedure with a hybrid system of delegated acts and implementing acts. as existing pieces of legislation related to the eu’s commercial policy need to be aligned to this new system of delegated acts and implementing acts, i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is an urgent and important legislative proposal to be adopted by the plenary in order to avoid a legal vacuum on this highly sensitive issue. shellfish must be protected, preserved and eaten. i am in favour.
in writing. − the s&d group press for a complete ban on at-sea shark fin removal – all sharks landed must have their fins naturally attached – while stressing that this new rule should have no exceptions. i abstained.
in writing. − in defence of latvia's interests, i did not support the motion for a resolution on the climate change conference in doha, qatar. the resolution provides that emission allowances cannot be carried over to the next commitment period of the kyoto protocol. this offer is not acceptable because it will significantly increase the cost of meeting latvia's targets, which it is doing very well, the data show that latvia has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 55% compared to 1990. a ban on the transfer of emission units would require additional purchases on the market for these units and would only increase budgetary expenditure at a time when countries are on a path to budgetary balance. global greenhouse gas emission reduction targets are welcome, but they need to be achieved in a predictable way without creating additional burdens on national budgets.
in writing. − i voted in favour.
in writing. − the ep resolution on the forthcoming climate change conference in doha (cop18) ‘stresses that the carry-over of assigned amount units (aaus) to the second commitment period would undermine the integrity of the kyoto protocol’ and ‘points out that if member states are allowed to transfer aaus, the kyoto protocol will have no real effect on climate mitigation’. a group of epp members from the central and eastern european countries find this position unacceptable as, with the ban on carrying over the aaus, which are an important national asset, these countries will be deprived of a significant amount of resources to be invested in the green economy. it is not acceptable that the efforts by these countries to reduce co2 emissions under the current kyoto protocol are disregarded, as they have contributed to the average decrease in the eu27’s co2 emissions and have helped the eu to lead the way in combating climate change. in my view, this fact undermines the credibility of the eu to speak with one voice and therefore i voted against the resolution.
in writing. − despite the economic crisis, the eu should continue its enlargement policy, which has proved to be the most effective tool in consolidating democracy and stability in accession countries. it is necessary to consider the possibility of pre-term agreement with ukraine. i am in favour.
in writing. − since the european parliament strongly condemns the rocket attacks on israel from the gaza strip, which hamas and other armed groups in gaza must cease immediately, and stresses that there can be no justification for the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians, and that israel has the right to protect its population from these kinds of attacks, while pointing out that, in doing so, it must act proportionately and ensure the protection of civilians at all times, i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is a very important report since it looks at the 15 csdp missions currently deployed, makes recommendations, but also provide some background on the work of the csdp. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report calls on the need to strike a very fine balance between solidarity and granting enough liberty to the member states to choose how and if they want to support another fellow state. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report calls for a better coordination and more coherence – currently the eu is missing an exhaustive overview on the existing cyber security and cyber defence challenges and is also lacking common definitions, standards and a united approach to these threats. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report calls for a stronger multilateral cooperation and improved global governance on climate security where the eu plays an enhanced role. it urges the ec to mainstream the potential effects of climate change on security into the most important strategies and policy documents. a working structure between council, commission and eeas should be established to consider the entire range of issues related to climate change. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report makes a number of recommendations to the council, commission and eeas on the negotiations on a new eu agreement with kazakhstan. it was adopted unanimously in the committee on foreign affairs. very timely report. in favour.
in writing. − this initiative report which takes part of the whole package of the common fisheries reform intends to highlight that small-scale fisheries have specific characteristics and problems that distinguish them from industrial-type large-scale fishing. i am in favour.
in writing. − the eu is one of the most important markets for fishery products and the biggest importer in the world of fish products, consuming 11% of the world’s fish production in terms of volume and importing 24% of fishery products in terms of value; even though it only accounts for 8% of the world’s catch (2% when considering solely foreign waters).
in writing. − parliament’s original intention was to open the way for candidates to stand in more than one constituency at the same election to the european parliament. i voted in favour.
mr president, while there are countries which are champions in hockey, basketball, football and even in sausage eating, i represent a country which is a champion in organising referendums: i am from latvia. it is not because latvia has a lot of money. it is because there are a lot of disabled politicians who cannot make a decision about combating corruption, about the language law or citizenship issues. statistics say that 80% of latvian citizens do not want to join the euro zone. it is only the latvian government that wishes to do so. so it looks like we will have another referendum, and then we will be champions forever. organising referendums will be our national sport in the latvian republic. thank you.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you guys! we all talk in this room, and not just here in europe, about the need to complete the single market, about the need for economic growth, because we all understand very well that if we do not have this economic growth, we in europe will eventually run out of money to maintain generous social systems. somebody's got to borrow this money eventually. so the question is how can we achieve economic growth in europe, because first of all, of course, it is important that our member states, our governments, arrange their budgets so that there is such a solid foundation for economic growth. we talk about it a lot. secondly, i see great potential in labour legislation, which is that if we liberalise labour legislation, we will facilitate labour mobility, and that will also help us in terms of growth. and thirdly, we all know very well that if we invest more money in education and science and research, we will eventually have people who are prepared to make money from it. but here we have a real problem, that once we have these smart people, these young people who have invented something new and original, they now have a very expensive and difficult time protecting their invention, securing their patent protection in the european union. there are language difficulties, translation difficulties and also a very fragmented judicial challenge. but there is a solution. and that's what we're talking about right now. colleagues, after some 40 years of debate in europe, we have finally reached the conclusion that we could have a uniform patent protection in the european union. true, what we are talking about is not perfect. two member states - spain and italy - still refuse to join, but in 25 member states any new company or young inventor or older inventor would be able to protect his patent in the 25 member states of the european union by a simplified procedure. in the united states and japan, the cost of this procedure is now ten times less. we will increase europe's competitiveness. so, colleagues, while this may not be the ideal solution, it is the right solution that will lay the real foundation for our economic growth. let us protect the patents of european inventors, let us make it easier for them to work, so that they can ultimately improve the welfare of the european people as a whole! thank you for your attention.
in writing. − if the eu will make macro-financial assistance available to the kyrgyz republic for a maximum amount of eur 30 million, with a view to supporting the country’s economic stabilisation in line with the current programme, then up to eur 15 million should be provided in the form of loans and up to eur 15 million in the form of grants. such assistance must be supported.
in writing. − since the ep made a few minor amendments to encourage regional and local authorities then the recommendation to vote in favour can be accepted.
in writing. − i think that overcoming remaining barriers in the digital single market in particular to the benefit of consumers and smes should be supported. i am in favour.
in writing. − clearly the report is a reaction to the european commission’s communication of november 2011 ‘small business, big world – launching a partnership to help smes seize global opportunities’. there are some 23 million smes operating on the eu single market.
in writing. − our digital freedoms are essential rights and are indispensable for traditional human rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, and also for ensuring transparency and accountability in public life. we all see the impact of human rights violations that can be documented and shared with the help of mobile phones. the eu should take the lead in globally promoting and protecting digital freedoms. i am in favour.
in writing. − we should provide a high level of protection for investments and investors against arbitrary actions of governments of states receiving the investment. before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, member states were in charge of negotiating and signing these investment agreements. member states have negotiated more than 1000 investment treaties in total. they have to be protected. i am in favour.
in writing. − at an international donors’ conference in 2008, the eu committed itself to giving macro-financial assistance to georgia in the form of grants. the eu, on two occasions, committed itself to giving georgia eur 46 million. this proposal for a regulation is aimed at activating the second disbursement of macro-financial assistance, as requested by the georgian minister of finance in 2010. this macro-financial assistance would hardly contribute towards helping georgia to address the economic consequences of the conflict with russia and the global crisis. therefore i voted against.
in writing. − thanks to the efforts made during the negotiation by knut fleckenstein, the directive will enlarge the agency’s powers to prevent and tackle environmental disasters such as oil spills, enable it to contribute to combating maritime piracy and give it a stronger role in improving training for seafarers. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the unitary patent that should be granted in the 25 member states based on a single application would reduce costs by 70% for applicants, roughly down from eur 32 000 which is now the cost of patent protection valid in 25 member states. patent proprietors should pay one common annual renewal fee for european patents with unitary effect. i am in favour.
in writing. − to date, translation of claims can be as high as eur 85 per page, making the european patent 10 times more expensive that a us patent. cutting translation costs via automatic translations or reimbursement of fees would contribute to the success of the unitary patent. i am in favour.
in writing. − having a specialised patent court ready to deliver expeditious and high quality decisions, in full compliance with eu law, is important for a successful unitary patent; it should cut down litigation costs for european companies and research bodies, thereby boosting growth. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause that provides for the possibility to reinstate the most-favoured nation (mfn) customs duty rate when, as a result of the trade liberalisation derived from the agreement, imports take place in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to the union producers of like or competitive products. i abstained.
in writing. − parliament has to give its assent to the association agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and central america on the other. although the rapporteur, under rule 81(3) drafted an interim report with recommendations on the implementation of the agreement, which was adopted with large majority in afet, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the agreement provides for progressive and reciprocal liberalisation by means of an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced free trade area. this is important for enhancing trade between the two regions, attracting investment to the andean countries and helping local businesses develop the strength in their regional market to compete internationally. i voted against because there is no investment protection mechanism.
in writing. − the text of the trade agreement was signed in brussels on june 2012. being a mixed agreement, the fta needs the ratification of national parliaments and the consent of the ep. the agreement provides for progressive and reciprocal liberalisation by means of an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced free trade area. i voted against since this is not so important for enhancing trade between the two regions, attracting investment to the andean countries and helping local businesses develop the strength in their regional market to compete internationally.
in writing. − the european population is ageing to an ever greater extent as a result of low birth rates and rising life expectancy and 2012 has been declared the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations. the aim is to promote healthy ageing. among the diseases affecting older women in particular are cardiovascular diseases, respiratory disorders, cancer (still the biggest killer of older women in the eu), musculoskeletal disorders, degenerative diseases and depression. i voted in favour.
in writing. − prudent use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine. it is necessary to maintain availability and efficacy of antimicrobials. i am in favour.
mr president, the refusal by the council to pay eur 9 billion is political, not fiscal. none of the net payers are paying more for this year’s budget than 0.07 % of their national gdp. eur 9 billion is an amount of money which is 16 times smaller. the problem with cohesion, which is mostly cut in this budget next year, is as follows: the growth of the absorption rate is +27 % in those ten months. it will go further next year. i have just one question for the commission: what is behind your scheme to minimise payments, more than eur 1.4 billion for the convergence regions in the amending budget, but in the next budget to have a 15 % cut in competitiveness and regional territorial cooperation? the only reason for this can be that, if you do this, the debt will be pushed into the next mff for 2014-2020. is this the plan behind it or not?
for the gue/ngl group - the president! i think the resolution and the report are good and my group will vote in favour of them. but what would we want? first, to implement transport programmes by setting up small local slaughterhouses, which would also solve the problem of unemployment. secondly, provision should be made for the european commission to develop standard transport contracts to be concluded between the farmer and the carrier. the agreement should include scientifically justified transport conditions for the animals of the species concerned, temperature regime, availability of water, density of animals and duration of a single journey in different locations. these rules are mandatory and should be provided to carriers. transportation shall be equipped with automatic climate control systems where possible.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to congratulate monika flašíková beňová and to show my appreciation of her great efforts in producing a report consolidating – and i stress consolidating – parliament’s positions on fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law within the eu. our group fully supports the text of the report as it has been submitted to the plenary vote following the vote in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. nevertheless we hope that, in future, reports about the violation of fundamental rights in the eu – in 2012 as well as in future years – will not avoid mentioning specific member states. for our group it is extremely important that the report calls on the commission and the council to return, in addition to the thematic approach, to the country-specific approach, and to draw up annual reports analysing the situation of fundamental rights in the member states. the current situation is that a country-specific approach is used when speaking of human rights outside the eu, while avoiding mentioning specific member states within the eu. this double approach is unacceptable if we really want the european union to be one of the most advanced areas in the world in terms of the observation of fundamental rights.
we are already talking about four unions in europe. we have monetary union, fiscal union, banking union, we are already talking about economic union and let us not forget that we already have the european union. but we have to ask you one question. what good does all of this do to our people? the people of europe need prosperity, prosperity is necessary. we will not achieve this by simply changing the architecture of the european union. and we're not going to do that by just continuing to distribute borrowed money, as our colleagues on the left side of the aisle argue. the basis of prosperity is the single market. and in all of this discussion, it's currently out. but to achieve this prosperity, to make these improvements in our architecture meaningful, first and foremost we need to open up the internal market so that the prosperity of our citizens can really rise. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − this renewal of profit and expenditure plan should be supported.
in writing. − after long-lasting negotiations the european parliament welcomes the overall level of commitments appropriations agreed, which represents an increase of eur 1.1 billion compared to the original reading of the council. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is the fifteenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 658 495 from the egf for italy. it concerns 512 redundancies in ten enterprises operating in the sector of manufacture of other transport equipment during the nine-month reference period between 28 february 2011 and 28 november 2011.
in writing. − this is the fourteenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 454 560 from the egf for sweden. it concerns 3 748 redundancies, of which 1 350 are targeted for assistance, including 3 239 redundancies in saab automobile ab and its subsidiary saab automobile powertrain ab during the four-month reference period from 19 december 2011 to 19 april 2012. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it concerns 1 106 redundancies, 500 of which are targeted for assistance, in 423 enterprises operating in the field of manufacture of fabricated metal products, except machinery and equipment in the region of país vasco during the nine-month reference period from 22 january 2011 to 22 october 2011. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is the eighteenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 370 910 from the egf for denmark. it concerns 216 redundancies in flextronics international denmark a/s during the four-month reference period from 1 july 2011 to 31 october 2011. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is the sixteenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 942 680 from the egf for romania. it concerns 1 904 redundancies, 1 416 of which are targeted for assistance, including 1 809 redundancies in sr nokia romania srl and 95 in one supplier during the four-month reference period from 21 august 2011 to 21 december 2011. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european statistical programme 2013-2017 because i believe that reliable, professionally compiled and high-quality statistical data is a prerequisite for the public sector, as well as the private sector, to be able to take appropriate, economically sound and development-oriented decisions. the adopted regulation lays down the rules for the collection, production and dissemination of national statistics of the european union and the objectives for which funding is to be granted. recent history has shown that professional and rapid collection and analysis of macroeconomic data is needed to enable policy makers to take timely decisions and prepare the country for possible economic shocks. i therefore propose to amend the text of this regulation to make the reliability and high quality of such data one of the priorities of this programme. funding must go where there is a need to improve the methods by which this data is collected and analysed. both the responsible committee on economic and monetary affairs and the european parliament supported my amendments and they are incorporated in the final text of the regulation.
in writing. − i supported the council decision authorising closer cooperation in the field of taxation of financial transactions. this decision does not oblige latvia to introduce this tax, so i supported it. our country will become more competitive in terms of taxation compared to other countries of the european union that will introduce this tax. the experience of some countries, such as sweden, has taught us that the consequences of introducing such a tax can be to alienate the recipients of financial services, i.e. to cause capital flight and to move financial service providers to another, lower tax jurisdiction. i will continue to defend the interests of latvian taxpayers and advocate that tax legislation remain within the competence of the member states. the commission has also examined the compatibility of the aid with the internal market.
in writing. − today, unfortunately, the european parliament has supported by a small majority a very controversial and even radical own-initiative report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. the european parliament's committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has also called for the eu to be involved in the fight against terrorism and to support the eu's efforts to combat terrorism. the ep proposed a minority resolution report on the situation of fundamental rights, which covered all the important issues and was much more balanced and moderate. it received much support, but not enough to replace the original text.
in writing. – with regard to the fact that the european parliament constantly tries to influence the whole judicial system of ukraine using lobbyists of the former prime-minister of ukraine yulia tymoshenko, i consider it necessary to declare: (1) both the president of ukraine, viktor yanukovich, and yulia tymoshenko are subjects of ukrainian law; (2) any interference into the internal affairs of ukraine gives the wrong signal to ukrainian people; (3) if the european parliament turns into an advocate of people who violated ukrainian law, we should mention in ep resolutions all convicted people in ukraine. otherwise, our resolutions will become more hilarious and the meaning ‘european parliament’ will become a denominative title.
rapporteur. − mr president, the proposal for a council decision that we are discussing today seeks to establish the multiannual framework for the eu agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the next five years, as required by the regulation establishing fra. the commission, when preparing the proposal, in comparison with the framework currently in force, expanded the notion of discrimination, excluded citizens’ participation, but included roma integration, as well as police and judicial cooperation. however, the council excluded police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. my position as rapporteur is that the multiannual framework for fra for the next five years could and should be formulated better. i agree with the fra management board and a number of human rights ngos that fra’s area of work should explicitly encompass social rights. also, the thematic area concerning roma integration should preferably be reformulated. the concept of multiple discrimination should also be explicitly mentioned and included. i also deeply regret the lack of agreement in the council as regards the inclusion of the proposed new thematic areas of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the new multiannual financial framework. last but not least, i am concerned by the reported attempts of several member states in the council to exclude discrimination based on membership of a national minority from the thematic areas. i find such attempts unacceptable. in other circumstances, i would invite the european parliament to decline to consent in order to find a better solution. however, fra needs new thematic areas to work on and ensure continuity in its activities. unless there is a new multiannual framework in place by the beginning of 2013, fra can only work if there is a specific request from an institution. given such considerations, two months ago i suggested that the european parliament gives its consent to the new multiannual framework by the end of this year. this approach was supported by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) on 8 november, but the first indications were that fra would still remain outside the multiannual framework, since there is no unanimity in the council. in the meantime, the united kingdom has declared in the council that it, while agreeing on the substance, will use parliamentary scrutiny. it means that the uk parliament will postpone the adoption of the mandate formally for several months, at least until april. to our regret, we do not have the cyprus presidency with us today. this monday i had a bilateral meeting with mr loukas louka, minister of justice and public order in cyprus. thanks to my insistent request made during this conversation that we be provided with a written declaration, we now have the letter of mr loukas louka sent on tuesday to the libe chair, which says, and i quote: ‘the presidency proposed to the council to address a request to the agency to proceed in implementation of its current annual work programme 2013 while waiting for the adoption of the new multiannual framework’. so, this is a request. therefore, i hope that fra will work on a request of the council. in this situation, and while still following the consultations with shadows, i have nevertheless decided to propose that parliament gives its consent today, in order to demonstrate that only one of two co-legislators must be held liable for the failure to guarantee the full working capacities of the fundamental rights agency in a timely manner.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am very grateful to mrs reding for her statement. i would like to repeat the excellent words of mr cashman, that human rights are priceless. i would also like to congratulate you all – including also mr kjaerum, director of the fundamental rights agency, and his staff – on the 64th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, which we celebrated three days ago. by the way, we also celebrated in latvia the 20th anniversary of an ngo which i created called the latvian human rights committee. i also hope, mrs reding, that the commission will evaluate in 2013 the tasks, areas of activities and working methods of fra. i very much hope that fra will work on new elements of the lisbon treaty, such as police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, not only on request, but also by having it in the new multiannual framework, which can be revised with also revision of the regulation on fra. i must also thank all the shadow rapporteurs for your work, although the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs decided not to support our stance to give consent. some speakers – mr kirkhope and mr tannock – are not here but their speeches just proved my assumption that the real reason for using parliamentary scrutiny in the house of commons is not a procedural one, but just a political one. once more thanks to all of us, and i hope that the parliament will give its consent to the multiannual framework of fra today.
