in writing. − at several recent summits, and again at the december european council meeting, member states have tried to address the present crisis with intergovernmental approaches, which merely patch-up the patient. given the profound nature of europe’s current difficulties, comprehensive, concerted action at eu level is the only real cure. better involving national parliaments and the european parliament in these decisions could also help to improve the democratic accountability of these decisions and improve their credibility for citizens. the specific policy proposals that emerged from the summit are also disappointing. while fiscal discipline is a necessary part of a stable and sustainable economy, it cannot alone bring about a return to growth. the eu should pursue a holistic response focusing on reforging a stronger, better-integrated european single market through the removal of the many remaining ‘gaps’, which would both offer consumers better protection and improve competitiveness, thus fostering growth and job creation.
mr president, this debate is unprecedented. it is the first time we have debated infringement proceedings of this nature in this institution and in the presence of the highest european authorities, including no less than the prime minister of the country at the centre of the debate. this unprecedented situation calls for us to assume our respective responsibilities, but also to respect each other’s institutional role. this means that we must respect the role of the commission to start infringement proceedings and we must support it in its decisions. i would like to tell mr alvaro that we must also support the commission if it decides not to start article 7 proceedings. we must respect that too. this means that we must allow time for the matter to be discussed, and hopefully resolved, between the commission and the hungarian authorities, and the declaration of prime minister orbán in this sense is very much to be welcomed. but it also means that we must distinguish between the legal process – the due process – and the public political debate. this house can very well express its political views, but this is not a tribunal and it should not replace the legal and judicial process. we should therefore give time for the legal process to take place and hold back from jumping to conclusions until this process, led by the commission, is completed. further action on our part at this stage is not just premature, but could also do more harm than good because it would damage the respect that our institution enjoys with the hungarian people as much as it would damage the image of hungary. so let us support the commission in its role as the guardian of the treaties, let the hungarian authorities rectify all laws that are found to be in breach of eu laws, but let us give the legal process time to run its course.
in writing. – this report identifies the negative impact that food wastage has on the general population and in particular on people living near or below the poverty line. food wastage occurs at each of the different stages of the food chain – most notably at the final stages of distribution and consumption. a change in practice, management and conduct at the various stages could both make industry more responsible and citizens more aware of this significant problem. we need a long-term action plan which will improve the entire supply chain and will focus on the ethical, economic, environmental, social, nutritional and health implications of food wastage in europe and worldwide. action needs to be taken at both national and european level to develop policies which will reduce waste while also improving food-production practices in developing countries. the eu needs to address this salient issue in a spirit of cooperation, coordination and through the exchange of policy expertise to enable europe to use food sustainably – from the moment of production to that of consumption.
in writing. − as a new member of the committee on international trade it is fitting that my first speech in the second half of this legislature should be related to a report by this committee. the moreira report deals with pedestrian safety and light emitting diodes (leds). the introduction of leds for pedestrian safety is definitely a subject everyone is in agreement with. indeed many third-world countries have introduced leds into their traffic control systems. it is strange that most european countries have not done the same. the only argument being put forward is that, during a time of austerity, this is not the right time for capital expenditure. i do not agree for three reasons. in the long term this is cost effective. firstly, leds are energy savers reducing the cost of energy. secondly, if they help to reduce pedestrian injuries, they reduce the very high costs of hospitalisation and rehabilitation. thirdly, if they help to prevent death then the investment in that particular human (i.e. education) will not be lost. but the most important reason is that all human life is sacred and must be protected at all costs.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, it has been an evening of congratulations for those who are sitting in the presidential chair, so allow me to add mine – to you and also to sir graham watson who has just been elected president of the eldr party. good luck is all i will say to you. i know how you like to take on new positions. the report is really important and i am grateful to you for the work you have done and also for the contributions that have been made to our thinking on how we deal with what we call restrictive measures guidelines. these are an important foreign policy tool that the european union uses, and the foreign affairs council on 23 january 2012 perhaps demonstrated the importance we attach to them. the purpose of these measures is to bring about a change of policy or activity in a country, in a government, in entities or indeed in individuals. in that sense they are preventive instruments, which should allow us to respond swiftly to political challenges and development. it is essential that any sanctions taken should minimise the impact on the general population – they need to be targeted – so consistency in their application is important, as you have recommended in your report, sir graham, and that is clearly very welcome. they also, as you equally recognise, have to be tailored to the specific objectives of each restrictive measures regime. the uniform and consistent interpretation and effective implementation of these measures is essential if we are to ensure that they are effective in achieving the desired political objective, and that is directly related, of course, to the adoption of similar measures by third countries. we want the restrictive measures that we impose to be properly understood. we have to be actively engaged in communication about our sanctions, including with the country that we have targeted and with its population. these steps are never taken lightly and they are taken with a specific objective in mind. i want to be very clear here, using the example of iran. the purpose of the sanctions on iran is to persuade them to fulfil the obligations that they signed up to in signing the non-proliferation treaty and to allow the inspectors to do their work and convince us of iran’s desire to have only a civil nuclear power programme, if that is what they wish, but certainly not a nuclear weapons programme. when countries and regimes fail in their objectives in terms of either their commitments internationally or, as we have seen in syria, their ability to support their people – and when, indeed, they turn to violence against their people, we are obliged to act, both morally and, i believe, internationally because of the positions that we hold. however, the purpose of the sanctions is to achieve that change. that, i think, is really important. it is important that it be understood here, and that it be understood by the country and especially by the people. whatever we do, we have to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, due process and the right to an effective remedy in full conformity with the jurisprudence of the european union courts. i wanted to make those points not only to clarify our policy but also because they reflect the outcome of the relex working group that has been updating our best practice on these measures; and the working group’s document was welcomed by the psc in january. i believe they also echo the recommendations made in the report that you have put forward this evening. i note, too, the concerns that you mentioned in your introduction, sir graham, in relation to individuals and commercial interests, particularly those of some leaders. you will know that during the arab spring we froze the assets of senior figures from the former tunisian, egyptian, libyan and syrian regimes. even where we have a successful democratic transition, the issue of assets misappropriated by former regimes remains. those assets that have been frozen cannot simply be released; they have to be rightfully transferred to the new state, and that is very complex. i just wanted to inform honourable members that we are ready to assist those states concerned. indeed, the european union, together with the world bank, is planning a workshop in tunisia bringing the relevant experts together to provide help and to support them in getting back the assets that rightly belong to the people of tunisia. i recognise the importance of the report in making sure that we are consistent and that we look to the ways in which we direct our sanctions or restrictive measures – ensuring not only that they are effective but also that they do not afford loopholes that may damage their credibility and, equally, being ready to lift them quickly when we are in a position to see that assets are returned to the people. that is an area of work that will be extremely important in the coming weeks and months, and i am very grateful to you for the report.
in writing. – there is no doubt that in normal circumstances a consistent policy is admirable. indeed when restrictive measures are applied against regimes it should be understandable that a consistent policy should be applied to leaders of such regimes in the exercise of commercial and personal interests. on the other hand one must, first of all, discuss whether the restrictive measures against regimes themselves should be consistent. the level and type of restrictive measures against regimes do vary according to particular circumstances. similarly targeted measures against leaders of such regimes do in fact vary. it is inevitable that a certain amount of flexibility exists given the diverse approaches which the eu adopts vis-à-vis not only regimes but also countries which have not adopted democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the eu is still in transition. from commercial clout we are endeavouring to establish political presence. in times of transition one has to be realistic and allow flexibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i believe that the lack of a collective redress system for the eu undermines the enforcement of eu legislation on consumer protection already in place, and consequently has a knock-on effect on consumer empowerment and confidence within the single market. in order to achieve a competitive and socially sustainable single market framework the union cannot afford to keep putting off the creation of a europe-wide collective redress mechanism for consumers and citizens. sufficient amounts of reports, consultations, workshops and seminars have been drawn up and taken place at eu level. it is now time for the commission to adopt a unified position and take clearly defined legislative action. the formula for completing the eu alternative dispute resolution system, for which the commission has recently brought forward a legislative proposal, necessitates the putting into place of this collective redress structure. to this end i feel that for any final adr package to be endorsed by the european citizen the commission must factor in the existence and availability of europe-wide collective redress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on a european dimension in sport because i believe that, in the constantly evolving economic dimension of the sports industry, immediate improvements on sport-related issues are needed in crucial areas such as free movement of workers and services, freedom of establishment, recognition of professional qualifications, intellectual property rights and state aid rules in order to guarantee that the sports industry draws full advantage from the benefits of the internal market. the eu and member states should secure dynamic, good healthy living for european consumers and citizens by improving the social role of sports and actively involving all members of society in health-enhancing sport and recreational activities across europe, particularly in the case of children, considering that obesity and other health-related illnesses are on the rise in younger age groups. therefore the commission should allocate more health-related incentives and funds for projects, in particular those involving cross-border sport activities. european citizens and in particular young people should be given more information related to the availability of sport programmes, projects, scholarships and training, which will help people, make full use of the opportunities offered by community programmes.
in writing. − the commission’s 2010 report on competition policy marks the 40th anniversary of this report. eu competition policy has played a major role in removing barriers to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital, and has also reinforced the single market and consumer interests. i particularly welcome the parliamentary report’s acknowledgement that the commission should actively engage with consumer associations to ensure that competition policy always works in the interest of consumers. as i have consistently argued, the rejuvenation of the single market clearly requires moves away from protectionism. however, i am concerned that the report does not find the correct balance between granting a level playing field to all economic operators and the need to apply competition rules appropriately, given the unique realities of small-island member states on the periphery of the union. in all cases, competition rules should take into consideration how they will affect european citizens and consumers, and should ensure that access to essential services is maintained.
in writing. − this report outlines the proposal for a regulation entrusting the office for harmonisation in the internal market (trade marks and designs) with certain tasks which are currently being dealt with by the european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy. should this proposal be adopted, some key factors listed in the hidalgo report must be fully taken into account: (1) full transparency of the methodology used; (2) balanced representation – meaning that this must include not only large industries, but also consumers, smes and internet service providers; (3) the office must fully abide by eu law on data protection.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, it is a pleasure for me to replace my dear colleague olli rehn. the consultation on the green paper on the stability bonds finished on 8 january. it is fair to admit that the feedback via the official channels of this consultation has been quite limited. we have received only 18 replies to the internet questionnaire and to dg ecfin’s functional mail box. these replies came mostly from private citizens and to a lesser extent from different institutions. thus i would hesitate to consider this feedback as representative. i would also hesitate to consider those replies as substantially helping or guiding us in deciding about useful next steps as regards possible common issuance in the euro area. of course, in the mean time we have had many other informal contacts and consultations with a wide range of stakeholders, academics, financial institutions and government representatives. also this house has been and will continue to be crucial in this debate. i am grateful for the first indications and views by sharon bowles and sylvie goulard on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in their motion for a resolution of 21 december, and i would in particular like to thank ms goulard for all her initiatives. these additional contacts have proved highly useful and productive. yet they only further illustrate the basic choices and trade-offs that we face when envisaging any form of common issuance in the euro area. such an instrument can deliver very tangible, positive results on the integration and stability of european capital markets. the more ambitious our approach is, the higher benefits it will bring. at the same time the possible challenges remain daunting. we would have to ensure that solidarity and guarantees across member states for the large-scale funding of governments do not weaken the incentives of governments to good fiscal behaviour. what becomes clear from the consultations and informal contacts is the necessity to keep it simple. complicated structures or instruments, based on complex financial engineering, are considered with a fair amount of suspicion and investors’ hesitance. what is also clear is that stability bonds should not be reduced to being seen as just another item in the arsenal of potential short-term crisis tools. yes, if deployed quickly, and depending on their specific form, they can make an important contribution to the current sovereign debt crisis, but in their essence eurobonds or stability bonds have a much larger potential. they can profoundly contribute to integrating european capital markets at their core, thereby fostering efficiency and the international attractiveness of europe as an investment location. in brief, our goal should be to create a strong, simple and creditworthy new instrument that would be likely to become the new risk-free benchmark on european financial markets. in terms of the next steps, given the ambitious goal and the importance of the issue, the commission plans to further clarify the key issues linked to the introduction of eurobonds. there are many quite technical topics to be analysed before any definite decisions are taken and we must take the time to do so, as nothing should be left to chance here. the new economic governance as agreed by the european council in december is a welcome development. we do need more fiscal consolidation, also in the context of the eurobonds. as i have said before, eurobonds without fiscal consolidation will not work, and i strongly believe that we will have to combine those two. in that respect, many respondents to the consultation of the green paper have pointed to the merits of keeping financial markets as a signalling and corrective device for the conduct of economic and fiscal policies in member states. hence, a full substitution of member states’ issuance by common issuance would, according to those voices, not be advisable. we have studied with interest some proposals to link joint issuance... (interjection from mr bloom: ‘three minutes, we’re now getting up to six – let’s do our job, mr president.’) ...explicitly to fiscal coordination by member states and to limit the time frame of joint issuance, at least initially, to the time needed to redress member states’ government accounts to sustainable levels. in particular the proposal of the german council of economic experts for a debt redemption fund goes in that direction. my last sentence – and this is my last sentence, mr president – concerns an interesting issue. when mapping out the way forward we all will have to keep in mind the limitations of the approaches presented in the green paper and strike the right balance in terms of... (interjection from the president: ‘the time is also a barrier.’) ...respective advantages and disadvantages to market integration efficiency and stability. i count on the european parliament to play an important and constructive role in this process. (interjection from mr bloom: ‘this is totally ridiculous.’)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, enough time has passed since the current crisis started for a vigilant observer to note that the crisis resolution remedies are not working. much energy and time was lost by our eu institutions in devising ways to prevent a sovereign debt crisis from occurring again, rather than addressing the more immediate present and clear danger by a proper crisis resolution mechanism. it is unfortunate that the two largest countries have ignored the early advice given in parliament by some groups, including ours, that fiscal austerity on its own cannot by itself get us out of our predicament. while it is obvious that the current medicine is not doing any good, the reaction to this state of affairs is unfortunately not to do the logical thing and change the medicine, but to give more of it on the pretext that the dose is not strong enough. this report on eurobonds is one important plea for sanity. it is a direct constructive proposal for a change to the current effective euro zone architecture. it is an opportunity for the euro zone to show that it is not just offering a knee-jerk solution to the latest downgrade, but clear-headed thinking. it is not a total cure, but it should be seen as a building block to the already set foundation of a european stability mechanism. of course we cannot introduce a eurobond in a matter of weeks or even months. the most we can do – and the aim of our resolution based on the green paper goes in that direction – is to issue a credible statement of intent, thus setting in motion a change of legal events to bring about the needed changes. but in doing so we would be strengthening the case for bestowing the efsf-esm with the much-needed banking licence which will supplement the ecb’s successful purchasing exercise at the end of last year. the contagion is spreading and it has started eating at the core. let us stop it before it is too late.
in the separate vote on clause 29 of the cornelissen report, i voted against. i do not agree that the european council should establish a financial transaction tax. i opposed this tax because the financial services sector in malta constitutes about 15% of gross domestic product and there are about 6 000 jobs in this sector. it is not in the interest of the country and maltese and gozitan workers to raise taxes in this sensitive area of the maltese economy. this measure may lead to the delocalisation of financial operations outside malta, with the consequence that instead of capital and money remaining in the maltese financial sector, they end up going to another country. i also voted in favour of the rest of the clauses of this report because in a time of fiscal consolidation, this report addresses sustainable job creation through investment, improving the quality of employment, investing in education and training and fighting poverty and social exclusion, as well as labour market participation.
in writing. − this agreement is to be welcomed as it will ensure that we avoid the abrupt halting of the european food aid scheme, and the suffering that would entail for those dependent on food aid. it is vital to ensure that food aid continues to reach the most vulnerable europeans, and that they are not subject to crippling food poverty. making food available to those most in need will help them better their lives and in turn better the community around them. after a two-year deadlock, i am glad that the member states at last came together to continue this worthwhile programme for 2012 and 2013. nevertheless, we must now find a solution within the forthcoming financial framework to safeguard the long-term future of the european food aid scheme. such a worthy scheme should not be subject to disruptions due to political disputes within the council.
in writing. − i support parliament’s resolution on the feasibility of stability bonds. recent attempts by member states to address the economic crisis have been almost universally short-sighted and half-baked. we must do better – europe needs a credible, long-term route out of the crisis, involving a series of interlocking measures. one such initiative could be stability bonds, or eurobonds. in my view, stability bonds deserve serious consideration because, if properly implemented, they could help to insulate the euro area’s 330 million citizens from the type of instability that has dogged us in recent years, costing us jobs and reducing people’s quality of life. a well-designed stability bond system would address these problems in the following way: firstly, by creating a single market for euro area bonds, stability bonds would be a formidable tool in our arsenal against the ongoing crisis. stability bonds would improve liquidity in the bond markets, reduce volatility and prevent speculative attacks on euro-area member states. secondly, stability bonds could support sustainable and responsible budgetary practices by including requirements for budgetary discipline. such a solid economic framework could result in improved economic governance and, crucially, could spur economic growth, which has been hampered by the atmosphere of uncertainty on financial markets.
in writing. − i welcome the annual growth survey’s prioritisation of initiatives to restore normal lending to smes, promote growth and competitiveness, tackle unemployment and address the social consequences of the crisis. however, we must not only talk about theory and priorities. the scale of the challenges before us demands that we take concrete, measurable action on these issues. in this regard, this year’s annual growth survey makes it clear that our efforts to address the crisis continue to be held back by the uneven implementation in the member states of decisions made at eu level. this is evident in the single market, where spotty implementation of rules makes it difficult, for example, for citizens to shop online with companies based in another member state. the commission correctly identifies that this type of spotty implementation, or indeed ‘gold-plating’ by adding unnecessary administrative burdens, must be addressed to unlock fully europe’s potential for economic growth.
author. − mr president, the ppe group takes the issue of the privacy of eu citizens and their data protection rights very seriously. it is in this spirit that we have been working very hard in the past few years to make sure that we put in place top-notch data protection laws that guarantee citizens’ rights to the full. when the processing of data is carried out in europe, we want citizens’ minds to be at rest that they enjoy high data protection standards. the processing of data by third countries presents a different problem. the concern here is that our standards might not be applied in cases which involve third countries. these are legitimate concerns. of course, it would be ironic if it were easier for third countries to process european citizens’ data in their territory than for european entities to do so in europe. that is not acceptable for our citizens and, of course, cannot be acceptable to our chamber, which is why we have to work together to find workable solutions. our solutions should start from the basic premise that a law enacted by a third country cannot be directly and automatically applied in the territory of the european union unless eu law or member state national law has explicitly allowed it to be so. we cannot lose control of this prerogative, and no law of a third country should be able to short-circuit eu law or national law, including eu data protection law. we must make sure that this principle can be applied in law and in practice. i think that the new data protection package recently presented by the commission gives us the opportunity to do so, as would the framework agreement with the united states that is being negotiated. i look forward eagerly to mrs reding’s replies to our questions.
over the years, the family reunification directive has done much good, allowing many families in dangerous places to be reunited under the protection of european law. at the same time, it has also enabled many immigrants to integrate into europe by making their family life possible. it is precisely for this reason that we must take care of this directive and ensure that its objectives continue to be met in the future. the commission's green paper on this directive under discussion today analyses it from different perspectives. but i would like to take the opportunity to go back and take another perspective as well and mention those countries that still face disproportionate burdens due to the large influx of immigration. at present, one example is greece. this country can't even cope with the influx and needs of people coming in, think about how it can cope with their families coming in. i also come from a country, malta, which has received a strong inflow that is already creating a disproportionate burden. if you add the families of a number of these individuals then the burden is much, much greater. this does not mean that this directive, this law, is wrong. another one! i have already said that it is very good and very important. but it is important to take all the perspectives into account in evaluating this law, including the capacity of member countries to implement it. if a directive cannot be implemented then it is of no interest to anyone. the speaker agreed to accept a blue-paper question under rule 149 (8)
blue-card answer. – i think it would be more appropriate for the commission to reply to this question. the point i was trying to make in my speech is that it is good to have standards, but we have to make sure that it is possible for all member states to implement them. these standards must include health services, as my colleague has mentioned, so i hope that this too will be taken into account. that is the point i was making in my speech.
in writing. − i am in agreement with the simon report, which advocates better protection for depositors on the one hand and supports stabilisation of the european financial system, with the view of a more complete single market, on the other hand. the rapporteur insists on the need to strike a balance between the uniform protection of depositors in each member state through the diligent compliance of common requirements as set out by the proposal, and the flexibility which must be afforded to member states in determining the framework for the operation of deposit guarantee schemes. the proposals for cutting red tape, ensuring adequate funding (both at the ex-ante and ex-post stages), staving off distortions of competition and ensuring that the same coverage level and target level are adhered to by all member states are equally welcome. the need for proper monitoring, transparency and supervision by all relevant authorities at the various levels remains fundamental to securing the proper workings of this directive, guaranteeing the confidence of depositors and restoring stability in our financial markets.
in writing. – i welcome the lechner report as it will help to establish further clarity and legal certainty for both the testator as well as for his heirs on his demise. with an estimated 12.3 million europeans living in another eu country and 450 000 international successions per year which are in total valued at more than eur 120 billion, it makes sense for the implications linked to cross-border successions to be discussed and even tackled at eu level. nevertheless, the public policy aspects and principal national traditions in the field of succession distinct to each member state should be respected, and should neither be encroached upon nor undermined by this commission proposal. the fact that certain member states have utilised the opt-out clause sends a strong message that certain countries disagree with elements of this proposal. this should be addressed and resolved – the main objective of this regulation is to eliminate or at least minimise the fragmentation which is currently prevalent in the field of succession at eu level and not to construct further barriers between member states.
i refer to notice 2012/c 50/04 published in the official journal where the european commission analysed the state aid to the national carrier airmalta. airmalta will end profitable routes, exceed slots at foreign airports, and reduce its capacity by 20%. this could lead to a reduction in tourist flows to the detriment of the tourism and travel industry in malta. workers and their families are worried about the future. the tourism and travel industry constitutes about 25% of gdp in malta and provides about 40 000 jobs to workers. the european commission is planning to cut 1,300 staff at airmalta when this situation is not resolved. in fact and in a sense of solidarity, we must be the voice of the worker. the solutions to the crisis are not and should not be to overwhelm the worker. the consistent and reliable connection between the maltese islands and european and other international destinations is crucial to strengthening tourism and the economy and safeguarding existing jobs and creating new job opportunities in malta.
in writing. − reference is herewith being made to the in ‘t veld report (a7-0041/2012) on ‘equality between women and men in the european union - 2011’. the above-mentioned report contains certain clauses related to abortion (paragraphs 47, 57 (2/rcv-efd), 58 (2/rcv-efd, 59, 61 (2/rcv-efd) and recital r) which in my opinion fail to recognise that this is an issue of national competence, and which i did not vote for. nonetheless, the gender equality report also contains other definitely positive clauses, which focus on barriers that prevent gender equality and which aim to end gender-based violence. there are also essential clauses which focus on gender dignity, integrity and the protection of women and their economic and political rights. hence, i voted in favour of the final text of this resolution.
in writing. − i voted against a number of clauses of the in 't veld report on ‘equality between women and men in the european union –2011’, especially those relating to abortion, which in my opinion fail to recognise that this is an issue of national competence. i also abstained on a number of paragraphs which, in my opinion, were ambiguous. having said that, however, the report highlights a number of issues and concerns, especially those relating to barriers that prevent gender equality. one example is the employment rate of women, which remains far lower than that of men; another is unequal pay for equal work. the report also contains essential clauses which focus on dignity and integrity, as well as an end to gender-based violence. in this respect therefore, and considering the above-mentioned reasons, i decided to vote in favour of the final text of the resolution.
in writing. − i am happy to support the report by mrs in’t veld on gender equality. even now, the gap between the position and status of women and men is wide in a number of european countries. we still have a gender pay gap, with women earning an average of 17.5% less than men, and a lack of representation of women in politics and on company boards. only 12% of executives of major listed companies are women. these are problems which, if necessary, must be addressed through legislation and quotas. targets and quotas should, however, respect the specificities of each country accordingly. the report contains several recommendations on abortion which i do not support, as can be seen from my vote on each of the respective amendments. however, i feel the report is an important and valuable contribution to advancing women’s rights and gender equality in society.
in writing. - mr president, the report on quality management for european statistics is of paramount importance in the context of the sovereign debt crisis that has hit the euro area. there is a need for sound and determined action to ensure that public finance statistics are reliable and authentic. effective action should be taken to prevent falsification of statistical data and statistical fraud. particular attention should be paid to the quality and verification of upstream data on public finances, the independence of national statistical offices and the standardisation of public accounting systems in order to ensure effective supervision of the economic and fiscal policies of the member states. the european semester functions correctly if the data are accurate and if the statistics are of high quality. to do this the data production and the policy process will have to be separated, while: ***a legal framework for statistical trust commitments is in place and ***components of the revised codes of practice on european statistics are integrated and included in the union leagues. i voted in favour of the scicluna report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, commissioner, i am grateful to this parliament for taking the initiative in organising this debate and in drawing attention to this important issue. i wish today to thank in particular the co-chairs, ms schaldemose, baroness ludford, mr busuttil and ms matias for their leadership and, of course, the members of parliament’s working group on diabetes, which sponsored the motion for a resolution before you. they continue to work tirelessly to raise the profile of the effects of diabetes on the health of citizens across the european union. throughout europe, chronic diseases in general impose an enormous challenge to patients and their relatives and society at large. this calls for a new and coordinated approach and increased cooperation. the biggest challenge in this context arises from the fact that we live longer and do not live healthily enough. this means that ever more europeans develop diabetes and other chronic diseases. the implications are obvious: mounting pressure on our health sector and a situation where fewer young people are entering the labour market to pay for rising public costs. diabetes is one of the four most common chronic diseases. at present around 30 million people in the european union are diagnosed with diabetes. this figure is expected to rise to around 40 million by around 2030. around 10% of the eu member states’ health care budget is spent on the direct treatment of diabetes. this amounts to about eur 80 billion, which does not even include the cost of treating associated illnesses or complications. at present, diabetes can be neither reversed nor cured. current therapies do not prevent the progression of the disease. equally they cannot eliminate the threat of long-term complications. the growing burden of diabetes must therefore be addressed through prevention, early detection, effective management, education and research. prevention can be very effective. according to the world health organisation, type 2 diabetes – which represents between 85 and 95% of diabetes cases – can be prevented by basic changes in lifestyle, including healthy diet and regular physical activity. what can be done within the eu to face up to this challenge? health issues are first and foremost a matter for member states. the european union has only limited competence in this area, but that clearly does not mean that we are inactive. in december 2010 the council launched a reflection process on the issue of chronic diseases. it invited member states and the commission to identify options to optimise the response to chronic diseases and spur cooperation among member states. this process is carried out in close cooperation with the relevant stakeholders and will result in a reflection paper. work is ongoing and is being managed at senior level within the appropriate council bodies. it is expected to be finalised next year. the danish presidency is fully supportive of this process and will use its time in office to advance it as much as possible. in fact, chronic disease is one of the main priorities of the danish presidency in the field of health. it will be on the agenda of the informal meeting of health ministers in horsens in denmark this april, where the question of patient empowerment will be in focus. patient empowerment is also the topic of a conference organised under the danish presidency, which will take place on 11 and 12 april in copenhagen. i am also pleased to announce that the european diabetes leadership forum will take place on 25 and 26 april this year. a wide range of stakeholders, including politicians, government officials, health ngos, healthcare professionals and business organisations, will be represented at that forum, and the danish presidency is proud to support it. the presidency is convinced that these events will not only bring together experts across a range of fields, they will also support the reflection process on chronic diseases underway in the council. considerable efforts are underway to address the challenges of chronic diseases, including diabetes. the work in the council is one of many strands of work which are contributing to these efforts – but more could and should be done. our discussion this afternoon, and the resolution which you will vote on tomorrow, will help increase awareness of this challenge to our collective health. i therefore look forward to hearing your views on this issue and to reporting back to the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the parliament for its commitment to improving the lives of people with diabetes. the european commission shares your concern. diabetes translates to great suffering for over 32 million europeans and their families. the european commission believes we need to attack the root causes of diabetes further. as such, the european commission fully endorses your call to member states to develop strategies on diet and exercise to prevent type 2 diabetes, as expressed in your resolution. we know that not all diabetes is preventable, but when it comes to type 2 diabetes, we do know what the main causes are: being overweight, obesity and a lack of physical activity. the rate of obesity has more than doubled over the past 20 years. more than half of adult europeans are overweight or obese. one in four european children aged six to nine are already overweight and, as such, at greater risk of developing type 2 diabetes. this is why the focus of commission action to address diabetes is to tackle its main causes: being overweight, obesity and the lack of physical activity. it was in this spirit that, back in 2007, the commission developed a strategy on nutrition and physical activity to support national efforts to prevent obesity. the strategy works first by fostering an exchange of experiences amongst member states, encouraging joint approaches and coordinated actions. this includes joint food reformulation approaches, for example for key nutrients such as salt. second, it mobilises partners across society to take action, through the eu platform for action on diet, physical activity and health, which, very importantly, also includes diabetes organisations. in this framework, the commission encourages action by food producers, media and advertisers on food reformulation and commercial communication standards. third, it mobilises other policies towards this cause. i will give you some examples. through the eu research policy, the commission has co-funded research on diabetes and obesity, worth eur 340 million in the sixth and seventh framework programmes for research. since 2007, over eur 207 million has been devoted to diabetes and obesity research. we further support research and innovation to address diet-related diseases more generally, with the joint programming initiative ‘a healthy diet for a healthy life’. as such, we welcome your resolution’s call for coordination of diabetes research across the european union. through the eu agriculture policy, the commission brings fruits and vegetables to millions of school children every year via the school fruit scheme. through the eu education policy, the commission is also supporting physical activity with initiatives such as the eu guidelines for physical activity. finally – and it is important to mention this – in the field of audiovisual media services, the commission seeks to reduce the pressure of food marketing and advertising on children. in addition, the commission has also financed action through the health programme to support member states’ responses to diabetes prevention and care and to improve european capacity for monitoring the diabetes epidemic. special attention is given to juvenile diabetes and factors related to childhood. the commission is persuaded that the eu framework programme for research and also the health programme contribute to research breakthroughs in the prevention and treatment of diabetes and in better understanding the interaction of diabetes with other diseases. your resolution further calls on the commission and the member states to ensure adequate follow up of the un summit on non-communicable diseases. in this regard, i would like to inform you that the commission has already launched a reflection process, together with member states and stakeholders, to identify areas for added-value action at eu level. i trust you will recognise the commission’s commitment to addressing the diabetes epidemic and to supporting member states in their efforts to prevent and manage diabetes. the commission will carefully study your resolution and how to accommodate your request for further action. the commission agrees with the european parliament about the need to do more on diabetes, for example: to prevent diabetes, in particular amongst children and adolescents; to support patients, and enable them to live a fulfilling life; and to offer the best available diagnosis and treatment options to people affected, to minimise complications and the risk of associated diseases. this being said, as you know, the commission believes that it can provide most added value by focusing work on the challenges and causes common to many chronic diseases such as obesity, rather than focusing on the individual diseases one by one. by addressing obesity, we address diabetes and many other chronic diseases at the same time. this is why the european commission favours a horizontal holistic approach instead of specific strategies for individual diseases. it is in this spirit that the commission takes note of the fact that the resolution calls on the commission to develop and implement a dedicated eu diabetes strategy and to monitor member state action in this area. finally, let me assure you that by addressing the risk factors, developing the evidence base and by supporting member states, the commission can and will continue to play its full role in addressing diabetes.
on behalf of the ppe group. other i am very pleased that we are having this debate because we have been working for two and a half years to have this debate in this chamber and to have this resolution and therefore i am very pleased with my colleagues working on this subject who are here today. as it was said there are 32 million citizens suffering from diabetes disease; again, there are 32 million more people who suffer from sugar and who could still face major problems in their lifetime if they develop diabetes. and to add to the confusion, up to 50 percent of people with diabetes do not even know they have the condition. i am not a doctor but one thing is certain for me too: we have a very serious problem. and that is why we are here today to discuss this diabetes problem because the lives of millions of citizens are affected. it is our duty to work together to find effective solutions to them. it is often said that the burden of the costs is too great to tackle this issue, but i think that in the case of diabetes this argument does not hold. why is that? controlling diabetes today will save costs tomorrow. it is therefore right that the danish presidency has made it a priority for its presidency and i also ask the commission to do more, especially by coming up with a strategy on diabetes, also encouraging member states to also make a national strategy.
in writing. − omnibus i and ii will bring trade policy-making into line with the lisbon treaty and, by giving increased powers to the european parliament, will improve democratic legitimacy and accountability. as such, this report recognises the important role parliament should have in eu trade policy. i welcome the fact that the parliament will in future be informed about the eu’s bilateral trade relations and that the commission will also make annual reports about their activities in this area available to the public. this report’s approach is to look at the pros and cons of each regulation by analysing delegated acts and implementing provisions while comparing procedures. this method is inclusive for all parties and takes a fair and democratic stance on such policies.
in writing. − accepting the international cocoa agreement is a positive step towards providing more fair and sustainable global trade in cocoa. this agreement will support efforts to achieve this goal by working towards abolishing the exploitation of children in the cocoa sector. unfortunately children play a large role in the harvesting of cocoa beans and are put under hazardous health conditions while doing so. i want to see an end to the use of child labour, child slavery and all forms of child abuse. since the eu is one of the largest importers of cocoa, we have the ability to help make just changes in the global community. moving forward, we will need a strong coherence between eu policies and a holistic approach that can eliminate the causes of child labour in the cocoa sector.
in writing. – too much has happened in addressing the serious problem of maritime piracy. the most conspicuous area where it is present is in the indian ocean. the main pirates come from puntland, north somalia. i have always believed that the only way to break this criminal activity is to make it economically not profitable. indeed, maritime piracy is organised very much like a business venture, with shares taken up by investors who pass on the strategic information to the pirates who are in possession of state-of-the-art technologies. patrolling such a huge area by navies has had an impact but the piracy still exists. it has also spread to other areas like the gulf of guinea. today we are seeing more and more ships being protected by armed guards, the entire ship perimeter defended by razor wire. gradually, tankers and merchant ships are being turned into sea fortresses. the problem, however, is to turn failed states like somalia into nations respectful of international law. the un is not even able to safeguard mogadishu and therefore it should delegate the task to those powers that are able and willing to use force to restore the rule of law.
there are two reasons why i will strongly support the decision to stop this programme. firstly, because for the first time we will have a programme at european level to enable the resettlement or transfer of refugees from outside the european union to countries within the european union, a programme which will also help financially those countries which are willing to accept refugees from outside the european union. the united states, for example, has a similar programme which is very good and effective and allows the united states to help people in need of international protection. this is a noble gesture and we will now organise and encourage this gesture also at european level as appropriate. last july, i led a delegation from this parliament to the libyan-tunisian border, where we found 5,000 people who had fled the fighting in libya, living under tents in xuxu. these were people from countries like somalia, eritrea and sudan who had fled libya but had nowhere to go. these people could easily qualify for a transfer under the programme we are adopting today. the second reason why i will support this programme is that such an initiative will give these refugees the possibility to come to europe without having to pay a criminal organisation to board a boat to cross the mediterranean and without having to risk their lives. the programme will therefore tackle organised crime and at the same time reduce the number of people who lose their lives in the mediterranean because refugees will be able to be transferred directly to a european country that is ready to receive them. thank you very much.
in writing. – a decision to have one seat for the european parliament has become essential. there are only two possibilities: brussels or strasbourg. the present calendar of the european parliament gives us the answer. strasbourg is retained only for plenary sessions, whilst brussels has already been selected for all the other working weeks. the scales are tipped in favour of brussels. one must also consider that it is the seat of other institutions, such as the european commission. it is only natural that most eu parliamentarians prefer brussels to strasbourg. there are various obvious factors including accommodation and connectivity. but more important is the vital fiscal savings that this would entail. the present ep buildings in strasbourg are not utilised for most of the working weeks. surely they can be put to better use. my favoured proposal is a university; perhaps a university specialising in european affairs.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, already 20 years ago the maastricht treaty enshrined the concept of eu citizenship, and the lisbon treaty on european union places citizens firmly at the heart of the european union – as it should be. in practice this means, and should mean, that people who travel outside their own country, whether for tourism, study, work, marriage or retirement, should be able to exercise their rights as european citizens as easily as in their own country wherever they are in europe. to this end, in october 2010, the commission presented its first report on eu citizenship, which highlighted the obstacles which citizens may still encounter when travelling within the union. the commission proposed specific measures to remove these obstacles. i am glad to see today that our priority is also your priority, the priority of the european parliament, and i would like to thank the rapporteur mrs vălean for the excellent work she has done on the report. i welcome the fact that the report has been received with considerable interest by the various committees to which it has been submitted for an opinion. the parliament has a key role to play in further developing eu citizenship. the commission has taken firm action to ensure that all 27 member states comply fully with eu citizens’ right to freedom of movement. thanks to continued political pressure we have achieved concrete results. most, but not all, member states have implemented the eu rules on free movement in full and, where member states have failed to do so, the commission has not hesitated to use its prerogatives and we have brought infringement proceedings against those member states. mrs vălean, in your report you quite rightly emphasise the importance of non-discrimination. in april the commission will present its analyses of the member states’ national strategies on the integration of the roma people of europe. you also stressed your concern that citizens should be informed of their rights; this is indeed an essential point and that is why we have set up the portal called your europe, in order to provide citizens in their own languages with detailed information on their rights. in addition to this portal there are 500 europe direct centres in the member states for the same purpose. thus, to enable citizens to be better informed and involve them in a debate on the development of the european union, we have proposed that the year 2013 should be the european year of citizens. you have now received this proposal, as has the council, and we trust that an agreement can be reached swiftly. the commission will present its second citizenship report in the course of this european year of citizens and it will report on the progress already made and propose new actions to make the eu into an area where justice and citizens’ rights are truly guaranteed. a public consultation for our citizens will be launched very soon, to involve citizens in this important initiative. mrs vălean’s report already serves as a contribution for the european parliament, and my colleague, vice-president viviane reding, will continue to meet you in the coming weeks and months in order to receive your suggestions. in conclusion, if our joint efforts are to be successful, we must work in tandem and involve our citizens. the commission is therefore anxious to conduct an open and constructive dialogue with all stakeholders in order to build a europe that protects citizens’ rights: a europe for citizens and a europe at the service of citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − mr president, for the past two years the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has been advocating the introduction and adoption by the commission of a citizens’ rights charter. this citizens’ charter would clearly outline citizens’ rights and obligations within the single market, especially for european citizens who want to move, sell, shop and work across borders. the urgent need for such an initiative was confirmed by the commission’s study on citizens’ top 20 concerns, which was carried out in response to parliament’s request and which identified the significant informative, legislative and implementation gaps that frustrate the citizens in their everyday lives. the commission must now address these concerns by presenting the top 20 solutions as soon as possible, to restore the crucial variable of credibility among citizens to the market. these measures would correct consumers’ and smes’ negative perceptions of the single market, thereby boosting their participation in the market and reassuring the citizens that the eu works for them.
the european citizenship born of the maastricht treaty was mentioned a lot. i think it is worth recalling that the treaty also gives the right to petition, that is to say the right of a citizen who feels that his right has been infringed to complain about it, to petition. and the best way to exercise this right of petition is precisely in the parliamentary committee on petitions which helps to remove the obstacles that citizens encounter when they come to exercise their rights. these obstacles are listed in this report. i also followed this report in two other committees. in the committee on civil liberties we were unable to agree on an opinion for this report, because in my view instead of focusing on the rights that already exist and seeing how they are respected, we tried to get into rights and issues that do not fall within the competence of the european union. and therefore we did not agree on this opinion. in the committee on the internal market, as mr grech has already mentioned, there was also an opinion. the point that struck me most in this opinion is the one-stop-shop issue, i.e. that the citizen should have one single place to go if he has a complaint and not have to go to different places about the same complaint. finally, if we really want to be close to the citizen, the first thing we must do is to see that their rights as european citizens are respected.
in writing. − air passengers lose time and money when their flights are delayed, overbooked or cancelled, but they are not always aware of their rights under eu law. in addition to the problem of awareness, passengers also struggle with drawn-out complaint procedures which delay access to redress. therefore i support a number of clauses in this report which call on member states to ensure that passengers’ rights are enforced in a uniform way and within reasonable deadlines. furthermore, i agree that passengers should be properly protected in the event of airline insolvency, bankruptcy or withdrawal of an operating licence, although i would point out that national authorities are already tasked with assessing the financial fitness of carriers licensed in their territory. however, i would like to have seen more acknowledgement of the unique realities faced by small-island member states on the periphery of the union. when reviewing transport policy, the commission should be aware that one size does not fit all. while providing an even playing field and ample competition, the commission should also properly consider the individual particularities of airlines requiring state aid, for example those that provide necessary transport services for citizens, or the cargo services that are fundamental to economic activity.
in writing. − given the heavy burden of debt in many member states, it is only right that parliament carefully review its expenditure and ensure that it is providing value for money. a number of positive measures have already been taken; i agree with the freeze in meps’ allowances and travel expenses. the house of european history represents a good idea which would inform citizens of the diverse range of perspectives on the history of europe. however, we must ensure that expenditure is managed carefully, and that cost estimates are strictly adhered to. with regard to the amendment on the verification of office expenditure, the wording needs clarification. evidently, meps should be able to provide the bureau with proper justification for their expenses, but this needs to be done in a pragmatic and reasonable way. as a result of the parliament’s ongoing drive to continuously improve the use of its finances, parliament’s spending for 2013 should be more efficient and the small increase in its budget will be below the european rate of inflation. it is more than ever important that citizens believe that the eu is spending money on projects that ultimately provide value to citizens.
in writing. − it has become evident in the wake of the financial crisis that the quality of consumer protection and safeguards in the financial service sector require tangible and strong improvement, particularly with regard to monitoring and supervisory aspects. member states should monitor whether companies provide their shareholders with the appropriate corporate governance statements in order to ensure full transparency and improve shareholder knowledge of corporate governance practices, thus helping to protect shareholders and citizens against excessive risk-taking and short-termism. therefore, while accepting a number of the paragraphs in the bodu report on the corporate governance framework, such as the distinction between unitary and dualistic company systems, and mentioning of shareholder participation, i believe that the report should have addressed more fair and sustainable governance measures which attempt to improve europe’s corporate culture, such as worker participation and gender balance.
in writing. − the ordinary citizen’s perception and understanding of the european union and its institutions is low, non-existent, confused or even negative. the large majority of eu citizens view the european union and in particular the single market as a system imbued with political horse-trading and vested interests. changing citizens’ perceptions and bridging the gap between citizens and the eu will not be an easy task. we need a new paradigm of political thinking, putting citizens at the heart of european union policymaking. i support the vălean report on the eu citizenship report 2010, the focus of which is the obstacles that citizens face in their day-to-day lives and the steps that need to be taken in order to remove those obstacles, such as facilitating access to cross-border healthcare, free movement of people, recognition of professional qualifications and reducing administrative hurdles and language barriers. i must state that although i am in favour of tax coordination and eliminating tax barriers in the member states, which further encourage citizens to move across borders, i do not think that at this stage complete harmonisation of european tax and security rules will benefit all of the eu’s member states.
mr president, the crux of the matter when casting our vote is this: we have to reply to the question, ‘does this agreement strike a fair balance between two equally important objectives that all of us hold dear?’ – that is to say, the protection of our citizens’ security and the protection of their privacy. it is in this context that we need to judge this agreement today before we are able to say yes or no to it. my reply to this question is: yes, i think we have struck a fair balance with this agreement, even though i am the first to concede that it does not quite live up to our high expectations on data protection and does not constitute the major breakthrough that we wanted. there are three reasons why i think we should support this agreement, most of which have already been mentioned. first of all, having this agreement is better than not having it at all, both for security reasons and for the privacy of our citizens. the agreement provides a better data protection framework than the existing agreement of 2007 and, possibly, a better one than the bilateral agreements that we would have had to live with if we did not have it. also, without the agreement, data would continue to flow, but without any safeguards. secondly, we have to admit that the united states has the right to request all the data it wants from the people who want to travel there. so we are doing everything in our power to secure their privacy when they choose to do so. in practice, without this agreement, we could end up with obstacles to flight traffic, extremely long waiting times for flight passengers and weaker safeguards concerning data protection and privacy. lastly, yes, there is no doubt that the processing of pnr data helps the security of our citizens. it should not be taboo in this house to say that protecting the security of our citizens is equally important. so, yes, it is far from perfect, but on balance our citizens are better off with it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – mr president, yes i do know this, and i also know that we consider pnr agreements and their effectiveness in the fight against terrorism to be so important that we even want to establish a pnr system within the european union itself. the major flaw in the argument of those who oppose this agreement by saying that it does not give sufficient protection of privacy is precisely that, without this agreement, there would be even weaker data protection safeguards for our citizens. i would ask the opponents of this agreement to please register this important point.
thank you mr president. the idea of introducing biometric passports was, among other things, to make it harder for our passports to be forged, and thus easier for our citizens to travel. but we all know that even with biometric passports we have ended up identifying certain difficulties and problems. that is why we have asked this parliamentary question to ask the commission to look into these problems in detail. today, we are looking at what solutions we can have to these problems. i would say that border control is a very sensitive subject for our citizens. issues such as irregular immigration, the irregular presence of persons in europe and the opening and closing of our borders raise many great sensitivities and our citizens have shown us time and again that we need to be vigilant about these matters. in this respect, parliament has a great deal of experience, especially on subjects such as schengen, where we have the expertise of people like carlos coelho, and also the subject of frontex. biometric passports are another important part of this security dimension and therefore we have every interest in biometric passports being effective and not susceptible to abuse. i believe that if we tackle the difficulties we are identifying through these studies, then this will be of benefit, especially, to honest citizens who travel regularly and respect the law.
thank you, madam president. i think that as mr triantaphyllides said, greece is a country that is symptomatic of all of europe when it comes to the issue of immigration. we must admit that greece, like other countries in southern europe, is a transit country and not a destination country. this is an important point to clarify and i will repeat it: greece is a transit country and migrants going to greece do not want to stay in greece, but they want to go to other countries of the european union, typically countries in the north of the european union. this means that both the external borders of greece and the number of migrants arriving in greece are not a problem of greece, but a problem of the european union as a whole. and just like greece, you have other countries: malta, my home country, and the island of lampedusa - if anyone here thinks that the 60,000 people who arrived in lampedusa last year wanted to stay in lampedusa, he is surely mistaken. so we must find concrete ways of giving this collective european problem a collective european solution. i believe that what has been proposed by the council in relation to the revision of the dublin regulation is not enough and we are still far from reaching an agreement. i also believe that the council conclusions on solidarity, although a step in the right direction, are also not enough. until everyone understands that this is a truly european problem, then we will certainly not be able to find a solution.
as my predecessor said, apart from lampedusa there are other countries affected by this phenomenon. late last sunday evening, for example, there was a surreal scene in malta as 90 immigrants arrived at a seaside resort and were greeted by a group of people who were organising a barbecue. a group of people who were organising a barbecue met a group of immigrants over eighty. they said that there were twenty women with them, including four children, but that seven of them had died during the journey and their bodies had simply been thrown overboard. we still have may mr president, and summer is yet to begin. people in the countries ask themselves whether europe, this time, will leave us alone again. and i think that is the question we should be addressing for malta, for lampedusa, for other countries. we need to take concrete action, for example an agreement with libya to see that now that libya has a new government, it cooperates with europe, signs the geneva convention and can itself process asylum applications some of which can then be received in europe. as for those who arrive in european countries, we need to see if they are entitled to international protection so that we can send them back, while those who are entitled to international protection can be welcomed in europe. but we do not only welcome them in the countries where they arrive. we need to share this burden between all countries. today, mr president, is europe day, a europe founded on the principle of solidarity. here too, we must see that solidarity is put to effective use.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. my job was to deliver opinions for the libe committee, civil liberties, and i delivered opinions on three agencies which are frontex, the european union agency for fundamental rights and the european data protection supervisor. in the libe committee today we have competence for a good number of european agencies and of course we have to be careful not only to make new agencies but to see that they function effectively and that their money is used properly. in my scrutiny i found a number of things and practices that could be improved, for example money allocated in one year being used instead in the following year. this is a practice we would like the agencies to stop. or recruitment procedures that could have been done better than they have been. in my opinion i said that these are practices that should be fixed. nevertheless, i can say that the overall management of these agencies that i have taken over is satisfactory and should be accepted. at the same time, the court of auditors also said that we should give discharge to these agencies because their annual accounts were legal and regular.
in writing. − the collapse of a series of autocratic governments in north africa during the arab spring radically changes the outlook for the eu's trade and investment with our neighbours across the mediterranean, and underlines the need for a revised strategy. in particular, i support the report's references to the role of the european bank for reconstruction and development. the arab spring countries do not share the desire of the former eastern bloc to become eu members, but they do demand political and economic reforms which the eu and the ebrd can help them with. while it is important that this parliament and the council of ministers ratify the amendments to the ebrd agreement so that the bank can become fully operational in the region and increase the funding available for ebrd investment, one should not sideline the long-term request of the countries bordering the north and south for a mediterranean investment bank which would be owned and managed by them. this is important both for ourselves and north african countries. there are thousands of small businesses in the south mediterranean who are crying out for access to investment tailored to their specific needs.
rapporteur. − mr president, lately there has been a lot of talk about growth, and how to kick-start europe’s economies and get them out of their dismal state. but we need to go beyond slogans and spell out how growth can be achieved. in my report on the internal market scoreboard, which i am presenting here today, i want to transmit a simple but important message. if we really want to achieve growth, let us truly deliver the internal market to citizens, because it is the single most important european investment for growth. to do this, we need to fix what is not working. where are we failing to deliver? the commission’s internal market scoreboard shows us that a number of member states’ efforts to transpose eu single market legislation have been found wanting. unless member states step up their efforts to make sure that eu legislation is correctly transposed and fully implemented, there can be no internal market. not all is gloom and doom, of course. some member states have shown consistent commitment to the internal market. i am happy to see that my own member state, malta, once again has the best record amongst member states for transposing most eu laws on time. other member states, such as estonia, have shown very positive results on all counts in the ‘internal market health check’. these positive results do not form an exception to the rule; rather, they show that, if there is political will, other member states can perform well too. unless more is done to ensure eu legislation is transposed and implemented correctly in the shortest time possible, however, our citizens and enterprises will not be able to reap the benefits of the internal market. member states therefore need more ambitious targets, and need to stick to their commitments. for its part, the commission needs to continue to fulfil its role as the eu’s executive with more vigour. breaches of eu law must be pursued more swiftly by infringement proceedings. to that end i am also putting forward, by means of an amendment, a proposal to establish fast-track infringement proceedings through an internal market prosecutor with sufficient independence to act objectively on infringements and institute infringement proceedings free from political pressure. building the regulatory framework of the internal market is not, however, the only step towards delivering the internal market for our citizens. that is why my report also focuses on the importance of bringing the internal market directly to our citizens and enterprises. the work of the established network of commission tools is crucial here, and the success stories of services such as solvit need to be followed up with a commitment to further strengthen these problem-solving services. for citizens are still faced with a complex, and often impersonal, network of services when they have a complaint to make. this makes finding the solution to their problem a problem in itself. my report therefore calls for further coordination among the commission’s network of services and stresses the importance of the your europe portal as the single online gateway for all citizens’ problems. but we also need to establish ‘live’ points of contact, for example by having case officers in the commission’s representative offices in eu capitals to work directly on citizens’ complaints. lately we have been asking our citizens to make a lot of sacrifices to ensure that our economies survive the current climate, but we do have the internal market, which is the best way of delivering growth and the economic prosperity that our citizens expect of us.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you to each and every one of you for your speeches and proposals. i would like to thank in particular andreas schwab, who, like mrs girling earlier, pointed out at the beginning of his speech that when we talk about the single market we are talking about this growth reserve. i said - and here i am also replying to mr cofferati, who spoke of the crisis as the main threat to the single market - at the beginning of my own speech just now, something which is in line with your own speeches. i repeat: in this crisis - with the rise of protectionism and national retreat - we see that the first victim could be the market. because if the activity of the european economy is curtailed, under the impulse of national, even nationalist, protectionist reflexes, it is clear that the single market will not stand. but at the same time, to get out of this crisis, i think, as you do, that this great internal market, with more freedom and less fragmentation, is our main chance. this is our first chance to get back to growth. that said, to do well, to make the single market work well, we must understand it well, and i agree with malcolm harbour, who called for this good knowledge - that is the value of mr busuttil's report and the work we are doing - where the weaknesses, the bad transpositions, the errors, sometimes the lack of contact or information with citizens or with businesses are. that is the reason for this dashboard, for the desire for transparency that mr schwab recommended. i would like to say to mr schwab that beyond this overall picture, which shows all the texts on the single market, we must go further and look, text by text, at how it works. i shall do so, for example, on one of the major parts of the single market, which is not working well and is only three years old. the services directive covers 40% of the european economy, all other service sectors being covered by other european texts. we must look at the overall picture, text by text, brick by brick, of how each of the directives is being evaluated. we have, as mrs schaldemose said, as mrs băsescu has just said, with this table the opportunity to issue regular warnings, to point the finger, to distribute a few good or bad points, but also to help the states, to practice what róża thun referred to as an exchange of good practice. i also want to say to mr stolojan and mr schwab that it is important to me, as it is to them, that we have the tables of correspondence, that the member states provide these tables of correspondence for all texts, for all directives, and that, when appropriate, we can publish them. mr repo was referring to the infringement procedures. i am determined to use - as i have already done - these infringement procedures to force the member states to do what they must do, but i want, above all, to exhaust all possibilities of contracting, of incitement. and we have already, mr repo, i mean to be objective, improved things. for example, thanks to the eu pilot procedures, we have reduced the number of infringement procedures very substantially. i would now also like to reduce the length of infringement proceedings. among the tools we need to bring the single market closer together, to bring brussels closer to citizens and businesses, there is solvit, a tool in which i believe very much. i have worked hard for the last two years to ensure that solvit in each member state - as requested by mr carrera de campos or mr obermayer - receives the legal and technical resources and staff it needs, and i am continuing this work with great vigilance. many of you, like mr busuttil, but also mrs weiler or mrs rapti, have mentioned this new idea of a prosecutor. the commission has some reservations about this idea - i think mr busuttil will understand this - simply because we consider institutionally, within the framework of the treaties, that we are the guardian of the treaties and that we must avoid duplication or division of functions or responsibilities. but you are entitled, as it is your role as legislator, to ask the commission to do its job. that is the purpose of this report, and the purpose of other tools that we have. i think that parliament has a role, among all these tasks, of political vigilance, and that it is in the dialogue between our institution and yours, with the help of the council, that we can improve implementation. now i think, mr busuttil, that we must strengthen the role of the commission and its activity in order to ensure the proper transposition of all these texts. i will propose to work on some ideas, such as identifying legislation or sectors which are priorities in the internal market, where we could, after identifying the most effective priority sectors for growth and competitiveness, have a strengthened partnership with the member states and, in some cases, achieve zero tolerance. that is, mr busuttil, what you are probably aiming at with your amendment. i would also like to point out that we could propose that this exercise on the proper implementation of the market should be part of a more comprehensive and binding exercise, the european semester, so that in this semester not only a performance evaluation or recommendations on budgetary matters are made, but also on competitiveness and growth. i have already discussed this with my colleague olli rehn. we must do our job, but we must also make an effort to dialogue with the citizens and with small and mediumsized enterprises. i would like to tell mrs mazej kukovič that this is the idea of this week of the internal market, which came to us after the success of the internal market forum, which your colleague róża thun had imagined and in which many of you participated. we will try to use all the new means of communication, including the internet, social networks to get as close to people as possible. i will, as mr malcolm harbour and mr schwab have advised me, and my colleague mr tajani, take account specifically of small and mediumsized enterprises in the dialogue, to bring to them directly, using the internet, the content of everything we have been doing with you for years and right now, to facilitate their work. the reconciliation of citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises with the internal market is precisely what we want to do, and it is also one of the points that mr baldassarre raised when he insisted that we should not forget the national parliaments. i'm with you on that. when we talk about freedom and the free movement of goods - and i answer mr paška - we are talking about the safety of these goods, both those which enter the internal market and which must comply with standards, particularly in the field of safety, and those which move within the internal market. this is a subject for which my colleague, john dalli, is naturally responsible and which he follows very closely. within this great single market there is - as mrs gáll-pelcz rightly pointed out - a part of the economy which depends on public procurement: 15 to 17%. i believe that compliance with the public procurement texts and the progress we can make, particularly with electronic public procurement, can lead to extremely significant and positive savings. the other day, several of you were present at the workshop we held in the parliament in brussels with mr tarabella and mr arias echeverría on e-procurement. we have had demonstrations showing that if we manage, together, from our texts to systematize, to develop electronic public procurement in a general way, we could save, with all local authorities, almost 100 billion a year, thanks to this digitization and generalization. these are concrete steps which are enshrined in the single market act. i agree with mr schwab because we must be objective about the single market and the benefits it brings to small and mediumsized businesses. the work we want to do, as i have just said, is to speed up, in all our texts, accounting standards, very small enterprises, public procurement with simplification, activity and investment in small and mediumsized enterprises. i would like to say to mr gustafsson, as to mrs zuber, that the single market does not mean all european policies. what is the single market? it's the floor. it is the basic platform on which we build public and private policies. but of course, if the floor is not fractured, if the floor is solid, everything that you put on it, in terms of private or public initiatives, is more efficient. this is precisely how we work with green growth policies, as mentioned by mr gustafsson in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. that is how we have worked with the 12 levers in the single market act, which clearly show the balance we want. the latter are finding - as i personally wished and as many of you have encouraged me to do - the foundations of the competitive social market economy by taking into account the three words, or the four words: economy, social, market, competitive. you will find this balance in the 12 levers we are going to preserve in the single market act ii which we are preparing for the end of the summer. i would like to say, along with mrs gáll-pelcz, that i do indeed find mr busuttil's report effective, to use his words. i think we need - as mr schwab wished, every time, to be even more efficient, than we can, and i am doing this screening work - to see whether we should use, as i wish, the regulation rather than the directive. i am doing this in the area of financial markets, the single market act and the internal market. it is in this spirit that we are preparing, with mrs schaldemose and the european council, which has a very important role to play as a co-legislator, the single market act. and that is why i hope that parliament, the council and the commission will find a way of delivering, of acting on the forty texts in this brochure which have now been on your table for several months. it is time to act by going further, as we are going to do, by removing the obstacles that president malcolm harbour has mentioned. these obstacles to the internal market are lost opportunities for growth and employment. i believe that we have no right, in this time of crisis, to lose opportunities. that is why we must have the right tool, as mr busuttil has recommended, to implement, with the member states, all the internal market texts as they are already proposed and voted on and also to go further, sector by sector, company by company, as we proposed in the single market act, to make this single market work better. i am convinced that this is the first, the closest to the reserves of growth, competitiveness and employment, and we must look for it where it is.
rapporteur. − madam president, let me start by thanking commissioner barnier and all those colleagues who have spoken in this very interesting debate – all those who have, almost unconditionally, supported my report, as well as those who have expressed some reservations, in particular about the amendment that is to be presented. i will come back to that in a moment. at the very beginning of this debate, commissioner barnier said we are facing a paradox: on the one hand, we all – or almost all of us – understand the potential of the internal market; on the other hand, we know that the internal market often ends up as the first victim of a protectionist tendency when things are going badly. this is, indeed, a paradox and it is the hurdle that we need to overcome. in my report i mention three ways of overcoming this paradox. the first is through transposition. we need to transpose internal market legislation on time and correctly. if we do not do that, we have a problem. secondly, we need to implement laws effectively. if we do not implement laws, it is no use having them in the first place. thirdly, we need to provide citizens and enterprises with the tools to find remedies when things go wrong. some colleagues have mentioned their reservations on the amendment that is to be presented. let me quickly go through it in order to put their minds at rest. the amendment reads as follows: ‘calls on the commission to put in place a fast-track infringement procedure and to consider’ – i emphasise ‘consider’ – ‘establishing an independent body within the commission responsible for prosecuting cases of internal market infringements and pursuing infringement proceedings after obtaining the approval of the college of commissioners’. this amendment seeks to develop the concept of fast-track infringement proceedings. we want to give concrete meaning to this proposal. it would free the commission from the undue political pressure that we all know it often faces when it tries to negotiate better implementation, or better transposition, with member states at the initial stages of infringement proceedings – often with the result that the infringement proceedings are delayed for too long. so this is not about sanctions – as ms rapti understood it to be – but rather about depoliticising the process and making it quicker. it is certainly not ominous: it is about making the internal market work. as to the timing and the question ‘why now?’ – now is the right time because, if we do not act now, we really have lost the plot. in conclusion, i agree with all those colleagues who say that europe’s major strength is the internal market. the question is how to ensure that we make the internal market work for all of us. i believe that we should seize the opportunity of the 20th anniversary of the internal market to muster the political will to address the remaining weaknesses of the market, in order to achieve a truly single internal market that can deliver the growth and economic prosperity that all our citizens want.
the situation we are discussing today is not new. we have third country nationals, such as canada, who can enter all european union countries without a visa while citizens of a number of european union countries still need a visa to enter these same countries. in other words, here we are dealing with a question of lack of reciprocity and not with a question of whether or not the european union is one country as some colleagues have said. today's case concerns canada and citizens of the czech republic, bulgaria and romania. but this is a story we have already seen with the us and we are still seeing it with other countries like brazil, for example, who are still racing to lift the visa requirement for certain countries including malta, lithuania and latvia. these situations show that we are not taking european citizenship seriously enough and we must correct this shortcoming. unfortunately, the european union is being too timid and does not take the necessary action in a situation of lack of reciprocity. as mentioned, the european union is currently negotiating an economic and trade treaty with canada. at the same time, we have canada which is still discriminating against the citizens of bulgaria, romania and the czech republic. i agree that the commission should make it clear that this is not acceptable. where third countries do not show goodwill, as a last resort, the european union should have the possibility to re-introduce the visa requirement for these countries when they come to enter the european union. we have in fact just voted on this in the libe committee in recent weeks where we introduced the idea of a suspension mechanism. for their part, the member states must of course help the european union and show solidarity with those countries which are being discriminated against. i therefore conclude by saying that if we ourselves do not take citizenship and foreign policy seriously, we cannot expect third countries to treat us as a group. on the contrary, the more we show them that we are united, the more we convince them to treat everyone equally in the matter of visas. and that is why i agree that the commission should take swift action on this case and all the other pending cases where there is a lack of visa reciprocity.
on 1 may, the european day of workers was commemorated throughout europe. this day reminds us of the economic and social achievements of workers. due to the economic crisis, these economic and social gains are being undermined and attacked by socially unsound governments imposing austerity measures and fiscal discipline without regard for the problems and exaggerated hardships they are causing workers and families. the economic and financial crisis has become a social crisis. we need to listen to workers and give them a voice more than ever. european workers want increased job opportunities, increased investment and actions that stimulate employment especially for young people. that is their right. the unemployment rate in europe is the highest in 15 years with more than 24 million people out of work. the austerity measures and financial discipline by the european council are not the solution to this unemployment. and that is why we support and promote the european parliament's proposal for a european youth guarantee which ensures the right of every young person in the european union to be offered a job, an apprenticeship, additional training or a combination of work and training after a maximum period of four months of unemployment. in the european political, social and economic context in which we live today, this guarantee can be financed by the european social fund.
in writing. − the irigoyen pérez opinion correctly highlights that well informed, empowered consumers, once offered the proper protections, can be the engine of growth and increased competitiveness for the union. however, it is clear that consumers in many sectors remain very vulnerable, above all in relation to financial products. financial institutions often understate the risk of financial products to retail investors who are not familiar with financial risk. consumer policy that is fit for purpose should be oriented not only towards providing the relevant legal protection, but also towards strengthening consumers’ power to make their own informed decisions and exercise their rights. the implementation of a comprehensive system of alternative and online dispute resolution for consumers, which would make resolving disputes between consumers and traders quicker, cheaper and easier, is an important initiative in this regard. i would now call on the commission and member states to take the necessary further concrete legislative steps to address consumer vulnerability, particularly in relation to the advertisement of financial products and advertisements targeting children and adolescents.
in writing. − the report focuses on the importance of correct transposition, application and enforcement of the eu directives. while emphasising the recent developments revealed by the internal market scoreboard, we should also acknowledge that some member states are still failing to meet their objectives of correct and timely transposition of european legislation into national law. in the current economic crisis, member states should ensure proper and timely implementation and transposition of european directives, especially legislation linked to the single market, which is instrumental in moving europe towards sustainable growth and job creation. therefore more systematic, independent monitoring is needed in order to ensure proper implementation and transposition of single market legislation with the adoption of a more qualitative approach which looks beyond the figures and identifies the reasons for this deficit. the commission should concentrate more of its efforts on strengthening tools to address informational, legislative and implementation gaps that persist within the single market, such as the solvit network, the single market forum, ‘the 20 main concerns’, which audit the progress of the single market and help citizens and businesses to familiarise themselves with their rights, entitlements and obligations within the single market.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, just like racism and sexism, homophobia is a blemish on european values, threatens the principle of equality, undermines the spirit of tolerance and diversity and blights the lives of victims. therefore the council stands alongside parliament today in the fight against it. we need to be constantly vigilant in combating discrimination. this is about defending and putting into practice the values we have enshrined in the un charter and human rights instruments such as the convention on civil and political rights, in treaties, in the charter on fundamental rights, and in eu legislation. this is not only about sexual orientation and identity. it is about freedom, including the right to speak freely, to march, to demonstrate and to express oneself in public. as a legislator, the council has already taken steps to protect european citizens against discrimination. the council directive on establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation is an important one. it prohibits discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, as regards employment and occupation. thus it is already illegal for employers to discriminate against someone just because they happen to be gay – or indeed heterosexual – but of course discrimination does not take place only at work. european citizens also expect to receive equal treatment at school, when seeing a doctor, when renting a house and so on. no one should suffer discrimination because of their sexual orientation. no one should face harassment and bullying. the council is currently examining a commission proposal for a new directive that would extend protection against discrimination to areas outside employment – areas such as social protection, healthcare, education and access to goods and services, including houses. as you know only too well, the negotiations on this proposal have not been easy. the council has been examining the text since 2008. we need all member states to agree before we can adopt this act. however, the work continues and the danish presidency will be presenting a progress report to the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council in june. legislation is, of course, the bedrock of human rights and equal treatment, but it can never be enough in itself. another tool at our disposal is awareness raising. changing attitudes is a long-term process, and i recall with satisfaction that five years ago the values shared by the council and the parliament were given embodiment in the 2007 year of equal opportunities for all, which was set up to remind our citizens that all people are entitled to equal treatment irrespective of their racial or ethnic origin, age, sexual orientation and so on. we need to continue this work. the fundamental rights agency is deepening our understanding of discrimination based on sexual orientation, and the eu also seeks to project its values in the wider world through its external actions. the european parliament keeps a vigilant eye on this process. a glance at the newspapers is enough to confirm that homophobic incidents are still all too common in europe and beyond. the european parliament plays a crucially important role in defending sexual minorities who are not adequately protected by politicians and the law. the eu has led the world in affirming lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people’s rights and we must continue this process together. this is a shared responsibility of this house, the commission and the member states, and it is a shared responsibility for all our citizens in the eu.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, last week, on 17 may 2012, we celebrated the international day against homophobia and transphobia. on that occasion i made a statement on behalf of the commission, and i would like to reiterate here, in front of the elected representatives of the european citizens, that homophobia and transphobia are an unacceptable violation of human dignity and that they are completely incompatible with the founding values of the eu. that is why the commission is fully committed to combating this phenomenon with all the powers at our disposal. as vice-president in charge of fundamental rights and non-discrimination, i have the task of ensuring that the principle of equal treatment remains valid everywhere and for all. lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people across the eu are still victims – victims of exclusion, hate speech, hate crime, discrimination and intolerance. we all know that, and we also know that our basic texts, such as the charter of fundamental rights, prohibit any discrimination based on sexual orientation. as explained in the recently adopted annual report on the application of the charter, the commission ensures that this principle is respected in every eu action and by member states when they implement eu law. discrimination based on sexual orientation is also prohibited in our directives, for instance in the directive on employment. the commission has made a legislative proposal to extend this prohibition to cover access to goods and services, social protection and education. i agree with the presidency that it is unfortunate that this text is in an impasse in the council, and i look forward to the report the presidency is to prepare on its efforts to move forward on it. unfortunately, this text needs unanimity in council and that is the reason why it is blocked, but it is clear also that there is a vast majority of member states who would back it. not only do we have laws in place but the court of justice has also confirmed several times in its rulings that the directives on gender equality in employment and access to goods and services also prohibit discrimination based on gender reassignment. so, with regard to the legal basis we are very clear: there is no doubt what the legal foundations are. on top of that, of course, you have to stay vigilant, and the commission remains vigilant, following up closely every petition and parliamentary question that alerts us to discriminatory practices on grounds of sexual orientation, whenever they concern matters falling within eu competence. hate crime against lgbti persons remains a source of concern, as shown by the recent homophobic murder of the young belgian ihsane jarfi. that is also why the commission has asked the agency for fundamental rights to conduct a specific survey on hate crimes and discrimination against lgbti persons in all member states and in croatia, because we need to have evidence – not only the evidence once a crime has happened but also a mapping of where crimes happen in order to understand more about the trends in this domain. in parallel, the commission is continuing its awareness-raising actions across europe in order to fight discrimination and to promote equality and diversity. in particular, as you know, we support civil-society organisations and national authorities in combating discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. what we do in europe, we also do outside europe. the external action service is very much aware of the difficulties faced by the lgbti community in third countries like russia, ukraine and moldova, to mention only those in which we find not only discrimination and violence but also criminalisation. the eu has repeatedly condemned such measures and repeatedly called on the authorities of those countries to respect their international legal obligations on human rights, including the principles of equality and dignity. let me remind you that cathy ashton, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, condemned homophobia in her statement on 17 may 2012 and called on governments to apply human rights equally, irrespective of sexual orientation or gender identity. and every time she visits a country outside the eu she recalls these principles in very strong language. as eu commissioner for justice, i will continue here in europe to do my utmost to uphold the fundamental rights upon which the european union is founded, not only on the international day against homophobia but on every day of the year, because homophobia has no place in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, there is no doubt that the epp group condemns homophobia and we believe that homophobia must be fought. we have consistently made that clear and we are taking this opportunity to repeat it once again this week. in europe, there is no room for discrimination of any kind, and that includes homophobia. there are no two ways about this. earlier today, all the political groups of this chamber sat down together around one table to draw up a common resolution, in order to be able to speak against homophobia with one voice. since this issue stirs up a great deal of emotion and controversy, the epp wants to keep the debate focused on the real issue: that is, homophobia. otherwise it will be impossible to find common ground. in this regard, the epp would like to raise two points. firstly, we must clearly keep in mind the limits of our competence: that is, what we can do and what we cannot do. we must respect the principle of subsidiarity, which is a basic principle of the european union. this means that matters that are within the competence of national governments should be left to be handled at national level. secondly, we must avoid condemning individual countries, especially in cases where it is not the government of a particular member state that is responsible for a given initiative or incident. homophobia is unacceptable and we have to make sure that it is eradicated in europe and beyond, but to do this in an effective manner we must be credible, we must make sober, rather than emotional, assessments, and we must respect the limits of our mandate. most of all, we must speak with one voice.
in writing. – it is shameful that some countries retain the death penalty for homosexuality or impose some form of criminal sanction for the same. education combined with legislative change at eu and national level is what will make a difference; it will be what improves the track record in every member state, it will be what will transform the way this vulnerable section of society is viewed and treated by its peers and ultimately by the state. as members of the european parliament it is our duty to see to it that this happens in our respective countries. the commission must ensure that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender expression in all sectors is eliminated by swiftly completing the anti-discrimination package based on article 19 of the tfeu. the commission has held that ‘homophobia has no place in europe’. now it must do its utmost to translate this statement into legal safeguards and guarantees.
it has been established that irresponsible behaviour in the financial sector has contributed to the crisis we are in. and so this sector has to pay part of the price of all this. nevertheless, i do not believe that the introduction of a financial transaction tax is the best way to achieve this objective. firstly because probably, a large part of the tax costs will be passed on to the consumer, and moreover, i think it would be dangerous for europe if we think that by setting regulatory standards in the european union, it would mean that the rest of the world will do the same. with the current economic situation, we should be very proud to have such a competitive financial services industry. in view of this situation, i think we need to be careful about introducing a policy or a tax that threatens this competitiveness. i declare that i do not have confidence in the impact assessments issued by the commission because they are far from consistent. it was first proposed that there would be significant losses in gross domestic product and after the criticism was made, the commission adjusted its assessments to show the opposite. i will therefore not support the introduction of a financial transaction tax in europe only and i invite my colleagues in the european parliament to join me in voting against this proposal.
i refer to the report on the proposal for a council directive on a common system of financial transaction tax. this report is in favour of the establishment of a financial transaction tax which would burden the financial sector with new taxes. i voted against this report because it is not in the interest of the countries and of maltese and gozitan workers to introduce a financial transaction tax. this tax leads to job losses in the maltese financial sector at a time when our economy is weak. this is an important sector for the maltese economy as it represents 15% of gross domestic product, and employs around 6,000 workers. this tax also reduces the competitiveness of this sector, has a negative impact on the gross domestic product, and reduces the volume of financial transactions because it leads to the delocalisation of financial transactions. with such a tax, financial activities and transactions end up not being carried out in malta but are carried out in other countries that are cheaper than malta because they do not bear the burden of this tax. moreover, it is the consumer who is likely to end up bearing the burden of the financial transaction tax.
in writing. − for far too long, banks took excessive risks without any proper supervision. financial institutions played a major role in causing the global economic crisis, but it has been ordinary citizens – as opposed to the banks’ handsomely remunerated executives – who have borne the cost. therefore in addition to strengthening regulatory oversight, we should ensure that the financial sector contributes its fair share to the exchequer. although the initiative clearly has some merits, i have a number of concerns that mean that i cannot vote for this proposal as it stands. firstly, it is not being implemented globally, or even on an eu27 basis. this could mean that financial institutions could simply move from a jurisdiction where the tax applies to one where it does not. in malta, as in some other member states, the financial sector contributes substantially to national gdp and employment. implementing the ftt would be a risk at a time when we can ill afford to lose jobs or deter investment. furthermore, although the tax will be levied on banks and financial institutions, it is important that we ensure that this does not result in extra charges for ordinary bank users or pensioners.
in writing. − following the global financial crisis, there was overall agreement that a way had to be found for the financial sector to pay its share of the cost of a crisis which it caused. however, i cannot support parliament’s report or the commission proposal as the right instrument to achieve this. among several problems with parliament’s report is the uneven negative economic impact of a financial transaction tax (ftt) on the eu member states, especially those like malta which have a significant financial sector employing a sizeable share of the labour force. any ftt should be applied at a global level or, at the very least, should include other key global players. the proposal does not have unanimous support either in the eu-27 or in the eurozone-17. a handful of countries, including my own, oppose the ftt proposal made by the commission, since if it were to apply only to the eu it would leave us at a global competitive disadvantage. it is a moot point whether a tax on financial activities – which the imf supports – would work better than the commission’s proposal, but i think that the ftt proposal is a missed opportunity. we risk being saddled with a tax which could be economically damaging.
i must say that i am not satisfied with the commission's reply today. i am not satisfied because, if i understand correctly, the commission is telling us, 'yes you are right, there is a breach of the agreement; but we have a problem solving this breach. i don't think that's a convincing enough answer. as far as i know, we have agreements with switzerland on a number of different sectors and we also have a safeguard clause with switzerland, a guillotine clause, which means that if switzerland breaches its obligations in at least one of the agreements it has with us, then all the sectoral agreements that switzerland has with the european union fall. so i do not expect the commission to come here today and tell us that we have a problem: we do not know how we are going to solve it. i expect the commission to come here and tell us, 'we have a problem, and i will see how i solve it to ensure that the european union does not allow itself to be divided by other countries, and other countries exploit the division in the european union.' on the contrary, the european commission has the obligation to defend all the countries of the european union especially at international level when representing it to third countries.
in writing. – the solution is not for member states to kick countries out of schengen because they cannot cope with irregular migration, but to work together to ensure that this situation does not happen. the value of the eu is in seeking common solutions to common problems rather than an ‘every man for himself’ attitude which inevitably means that the smaller and poorer countries struggle. the countries that directly border non-eu countries, or are islands, already face a disproportionately high burden, and the question of absorption capacity has become particularly acute following the arab spring. my own country, malta, has seen over 700 irregular migrants arrive in the last month which, when taken on a per capita basis, is akin to germany having to cope with 400 000 people. the dublin agreement forms the basis of a common eu approach to immigration. we need a combination of burden-sharing and financial assistance so that asylum seekers and economic migrants can have their cases judged swiftly and fairly. passport-free movement guaranteed under schengen is one of the major achievements of the eu. it would be a shame to see it to unravel because of politicians pandering to populist prejudice rather than seeking a solution.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs ferreira and mr gauzès on their work. the house agrees that member states must both deficit and debt. in this context, i ask the commission to be more vigilant in ensuring that benchmarks are respected and not sidelined by some innovative public expenditure instrument. at the same time we have seen, over the last two years, the austerity programme by each member state, rich or poor, throwing one after another into recession. even ordinary citizens are pointing their fingers at us and telling us why this is being done. we cannot continue to ignore that we are tecking up the biggest economic problem that is costing billions of euros in lost foreign revenue which is morally wrong; unemployment, especially youth unemployment. my national party has proposed a guarantee that gives every young person the right to be in school, in training or in work. such measures and incentives for businesses to employ young people are desirable. it is therefore vital that european leaders with the fiscal pact also have a pact for economic growth and increased employment that can be presented at the council summit later this month.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am conscious that there are seven debates this evening, of which this is the fourth, but it is one where so much has been said that i feel i need to give a fairly detailed response. however, i shall try to do so briefly. whatever frustration and concern you feel, i promise you that that is magnified by the conversations which go on every hour of every day between ourselves – the member states, with other countries in the region, with kofi annan, with ban ki-moon, and with all of those who are really desperately trying to find a way through in syria. a way through that will enable the people to achieve first of all peace – a ceasefire – and then a transition to a government that will have their interests at heart, and that they have chosen. everything that we do is designed and geared to try to achieve that, so i understand your passion, and i share it. i understand your frustration, and i share it. but we really have got to think very carefully about how we try to achieve that outcome as swiftly as possible. while we have been debating we know that a group of observers in syria have been met by stone throwing, and it appears that they have been fired on and have retreated from an area in syria. all the time that we are speaking, we are very conscious that the situation on the ground is as bad as it possibly can be. i want to try to address three or four key areas that honourable members have raised and give my response to them, while bearing in mind that finding solutions is extraordinarily difficult. the first is on sanctions. every day, we look at what more we can do to continue to put the economic pressure on the regime that prevents it from doing some of the things it would like, that demonstrates international concern and commitment, and that shows to those in syria who may not yet have realised it that this regime is going to go, and that the international community and the eu are united in their response to the situation. it is also true that we are supporting the arms embargo. we have asked all countries to observe this, and are working closely with the un under chapter 7. as regards the opposition, we speak to everybody at all levels – the syrian national council, the national coordination committee – and we are supporting the efforts led by the arab league, and also what turkey is doing to try to bring the opposition together. we have talked about umbrella groups, we have talked about representative groups: all manner of ideas to try and get some kind of cohesion and unity between the different groups about what it is they are trying to do. it is very challenging, and yet it is so necessary to be able to demonstrate and bring leadership for the future. as for the kofi annan plan: well, you can declare it dead if you want to, but kofi annan has a mandate from the united nations. he is trying to find ways to bring about his six-point plan and to think of alternative ways to bring the international community together, and i will continue to support him in those efforts until he says, or the united nations says, that we have stopped doing that and we are moving on. that does not mean that he or i do not realise how difficult it is. i have had the good fortune to speak many times on the phone with him, and i know his frustration. i know how hard he is trying to make things work, but what he has asked us to do is to support him in the ways he is trying to bring everyone together, and i will do that. when it comes to the contact group that kofi annan is proposing to set up, he has not yet quite determined what its membership will be. so i do not know what is going to happen precisely, or who will be there. i will be there, and i know that russia will be there; it will take place in geneva on 30 june, and in between times kofi annan is trying to build support to stop the civil war from getting worse and to try and at least achieve some unity of purpose to ensure influence in the region is targeted at trying to prevent that outcome. i think we should support him in that. i think we have to make a really strong distinction between observers and peacekeepers: they are not the same thing. what we have on the ground are observers. they are not peacekeepers. their mandate is limited to observation and, as we have just learned, they put themselves at risk in so doing. kofi annan worries a great deal that we do not make the distinction clear enough. if we are going to move to do anything involving peacekeepers, then we had better be absolutely clear what mandate it is that we are giving them and who is mandating them to operate. the syrian army is 200 000 to 300 000 strong and well-armed, so talk of military action needs to be thought through extremely carefully in what is a very complex situation on the ground. we have to work step by step, and carefully, to try to resolve this situation peacefully. we have to put pressure on the regime; we have to get those who have influence to put pressure on the regime; we have to get the opposition to unite; we have to get a ceasefire that will hold – because until you have a ceasefire, you cannot keep the peace, because there is none – and we have to be clear and sure about what it is we are trying to do. we, of course, raise this with all partners. at the eu-russia summit we talked about syria, and we have expressed over and over again our desire to see russia join the security council. that, again, is what some of the meetings i attended last week in turkey were about, and what many of the dialogues are aimed at: getting us to the point where the maximum pressure is successfully brought to bear on trying to stop the violence. on the middle east process, i agree with much of what has been said. there is no request that i am aware of concerning the arab league wanting to be a member of the quartet, but the arab peace initiative follow-up committee has met with the quartet on a number of occasions and i have no doubt that it will continue to do so. but i do agree that regional involvement is very important. it is why we have been very clear in support of what jordan has been trying to do, to act as broker between the two. we do raise the issues of administrative detention, both publicly, in our statements, and in all the contacts that we have. particular cases have been raised. mahmoud sarsak – for those who do not already know this – ended his hunger strike yesterday, on what was the 85th day. that has been reported to our delegation by the prison service there. but of course there are many people in detention and we have made clear to israel our view that the issue is disproportionate and we need to have certainty about the future of those people. we talk to israel all the time. there is a constant flow of information to and from us, and a constant flow of contacts. we do recognise the importance of the security of israel. we want israel to be a successful country. we want a two-state solution that includes israel, and we want to see israel recognise its international obligations and move forward on the peace process in its own interest. it is my view, and i have made this clear to all of my israeli contacts, to all the people i know there, that if you want a secure israel, solving the issues between them and the palestinians forms part of that security. that was never more true than now, with all the changes and challenges that are going on in the region, all the concerns that israel has – not least about iran – and all the changes too in the neighbourhood, which change the nature of the political and economic pressure being exerted. i believe that is really important. i recognise what the netherlands has done in gaza. that is important, but we need real trade in gaza, we need to have the crossings open to allow the import and export of goods to build an economy in which people can invest. that i think is something we have discussed many times. i just want to say a very few words about egypt, and to start with asmaa mahfouz. our delegation is in contact all the time with her and with her lawyers, but there is no doubt that these next days in egypt are going to be crucial for the transition. today we have the revised constituent assembly. it looks as if it will be more representative than its predecessor, but the challenges of agreeing a constitution by december are formidable, and the constitution is so important. there will be two important judgments on thursday about the running of ahmed shafik in the second round and whether the parliamentary elections from last november will stand. then of course there will be the run-off on saturday and sunday. so there is enormous uncertainty in the country, but i hope that what we will end up with is someone whom we can see has a democratic mandate. we work with all those who share our values and principles wherever they come from, whatever faith they have, as long as they believe in human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the principles and values that we have. finally, i just want to say that we could have talked about other countries – morocco is a good example of a country going through change, and which we have not forgotten – but i do hope that honourable members will stay committed to trying to support the people of syria in the way that we have witnessed in this house this evening. it is so important that we do everything we possibly can to stop a situation that is much worse than we can even imagine.
in writing. – nothing has exposed deficiencies of the united nations - since the end of the cold war - then the crises in syria. the security council namely its structure and veto system is completely hampered. every so often we hear statements from the general secretary stating the obvious and in the meantime thousands die. i may sound pessimistic but the only conclusion i can come to is that the system does not work unless there is complete agreement amongst the main international stakeholders. when this is absent then the only prior is the hope that time will solve the problem. and in the meantime thousands die. if there was ever a misnomer it is the title of this organisation. it is everything but a union of nations. it is disunited and far from able to get to grips with problems and in the meantime thousands die.
mr president, europe is at a crossroads. this resolution is a call for economic growth, but in my opinion it is also an indication of the frustration which parliament – and perhaps also the commission – is experiencing vis-à-vis the effective completion of the single market. it would be deeply sad if, in the fifth year of this legislature, we were to find ourselves churning out yet another resolution on the single market and debating the same problems that were identified in the first year, amongst others the fragmentation and inadequate application of rules; lack of proper transposition and information; potential of the digital market; the citizens’ charter and the lack of resolution on the top 20 concerns; services and professional qualifications, directives, consumer redress and smes’ incentives. once again, we are discussing the potential of the single market, but citizens are tired of rhetoric and instead want to see the realisation of this potential because the single market is very vital for the european union. otherwise, for citizens, unless there is this realisation, this will become nothing more than a meaningless, tired buzzword. time is running short and the continued unity and integration of the market are being seriously threatened. we are already feeling, unfortunately, the effects of protectionism in various ways. it is high time the council came up with more coordinated, urgent specific solutions and decisions concerning the crisis created, after all, by the irresponsible behaviour of some banks. this parliament and the commission – especially commissioner barnier – have been making specific proposals and initiatives, yet we seem to move very slowly. citizens cannot go on being disillusioned at one summit after another. the relaunch of the economy and the single market will need the continued impetus and input and hopefully the leadership of the commission, and the committed ownership by the member states. however, and most importantly, it must be a market which is credible, well understood and trusted by citizens, providing europeans with a realistic and holistic action growth plan in order to achieve a truly competitive, inclusive and social economy.
i refer to the re-emergence of the problem of illegal entry into malta in recent months and weeks of so many irregular immigrants, who for various reasons are leaving their home country on the african continent to seek a better future in europe. this problem is causing a continuous influx of illegal immigrants into the maltese islands. i draw the attention of this plenary session to the need for greater solidarity with malta from the european union and its member states. this is a challenge for the whole of europe and the responsibility should not be borne solely by malta simply because it is on the border between the two continents. for malta this is not possible. the european immigration pact was a failure. the burden sharing is not mandatory but voluntary and has not worked. few member states have offered to take on the heavy burden that the maltese islands are facing. in the face of this situation, member states have an obligation to go further in the spirit of solidarity. i therefore insist that we first need strict but fair rules for all. secondly, i call for more countries to shoulder a greater share of the responsibility for the challenges of immigration until we reach a binding mechanism for all to shoulder a fair share of the overall burden. thirdly, the aforementioned legislative and effective mechanism should be created without further delay... (the speaker is suspended from the chair. )
in writing. − macro-regional strategies promote development based on groups of territorial location. this is logical because states in the same region share certain historical and cultural bonds that can be instrumental for cooperation. because macro-regional strategies are to the mutual benefit of all parties implicated and the mediterranean would profit greatly from such a scheme, in regards to the economy as well as social and environmental issues, i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i am in agreement with the rapporteur that a single european railway area would be beneficial to our union. it is important that neither national boundaries nor lack of development impede this goal. due to the fact that they will lead to a strengthening of the overall infrastructure of the eu, for example by calling for timely implementation and security of funding for these measures, i have voted in favour of these amendments.
in writing. − concerning amendment 6: tachograph requirements are important for ensuring the welfare of bus drivers as well as general road safety. i am in agreement with the rapporteur that the implementation of these rules is of high importance and thus have voted in favour of this amendment. concerning amendment 21: in relation to tachograph requirements and the importance of road safety, it is important that the 'daily working period' is clearly defined, to ensure the welfare of bus drivers and others on the road. therefore i have voted in favour of this amendment. concerning amendment 38: it is important to set specific goals for fitting international transport vehicles with smart tachographs. due to the high percentage of vehicles still utilizing analogue tachographs, i am in favour of the addition of this amendment.
in writing. − the protection of intellectual property rights is essential for innovation and sustainable economic growth. infringement of ipr is harmful because of the costs incurred by businesses and the threat posed to consumer health. given the increase of ipr violations in recent years, i am in agreement with the rapporteur and have thus voted in favour of these amendments.
in writing. − europe's water resources are endangered by unsustainable practices including population growth, pollution and overconsumption. present legislation addresses these issues, but it needs to improve in certain areas, and should also emulate examples of success to ensure a better overall eu-wide policy. i am in favour of the rapporteur's recommendations which call for a more efficient and comprehensive water policy.
in writing. − in order to recover from the economic crisis and stimulate growth in the region, europe needs to make itself more attractive for foreign direct investment. this can be achieved partially through fostering entrepreneurship, which requires reforming the regulatory environment to increase the competitiveness of european businesses and their ability to create jobs. i believe that the suggestions outlined in this report are compatible with such needs in terms of future investment and therefore have voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − this report is particularly timely. with most european economies either stagnating or in recession, investment in the eu is badly needed. however, although there are many good proposals in this report, i and my delegation cannot support the proposal on harmonising the corporate tax base and we have therefore opted to abstain. taxation policy remains a matter for member states and, in any case, there are many more pressing priorities if we are to attract new investment. most important is the need to complete the single market. more than twenty years after its creation, the single market – particularly in the services sector – is fragmented and differs from country to country. as a result of this, there are a number of member states where it is very hard to start a business. without a level playing field for businesses to operate in, we will continue to lose billions of euros of potential business activity. we need to make it easier for companies to do business in europe and to make payments easier and faster, through closer cooperation in implementing rules on vat and avoiding double taxation and by reducing the bureaucratic burden, particularly on small businesses. this will help to attract investment and drive our economic recovery.
the choice before us in tomorrow's vote is not an ideal choice. we are being asked to either vote in favour of an agreement in which we have found defects, or to vote against it without a chance to change what we have found wrong and to keep what is right. the ideal option would be to postpone tomorrow's vote until the european court decides whether or not the agreement violates fundamental rights. however, we must admit that some doubts have already been raised: the civil liberties committee found that the agreement presents a certain obstacle to the freedom to use the internet, and so, if we are not given the chance to remove this obstacle, i feel that, in the circumstances, the agreement as it stands i cannot vote in favour of it.
i refer to the report by my colleague david martin on behalf of the committee on international trade on the international anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, known as acta. i voted with the rapporteur's recommendation, that is against acta, because i believe that with the agreement as it has been concluded, the european parliament cannot guarantee adequate protection to european citizens. the agreement is one that goes against the privacy of the citizen and against human rights. fighting counterfeiting and strengthening intellectual property rights, i.e. trademarks, patents and copyrights, is good, but not in the way that has been agreed through acta. i condemn the process that led to the signing of this agreement. from the very beginning of the negotiations there was no transparency and no consultation with civil society. a number of recommendations made by the european parliament were not accepted. i agree with the conclusions of the david martin report and like him i believe that this agreement should be rejected by this parliament. i would argue that the european commission should propose new proposals for a new agreement to replace acta, which agreement would above all guarantee that the privacy and human rights of european citizens are protected and not infringed.
mr president, i voted to reject the acta treaty and for victory for freedom on the internet. acta has been flawed from the start. it was negotiated in secret and we only learned of it through wikileaks nearly three years into the talks. it is also clear from the minutes of the negotiating meetings that the commission did not take a strong stance on behalf of the eu. but the main problem with acta is its ambiguity. the sanctions are draconian and it is unclear how they would be applied. accountable internet service providers would have sweeping new powers to monitor our internet use. people could lose their internet connection and face criminal prosecution for sharing downloaded music with their friends. intellectual property is one of the most valuable commodities of the european economy and we need to have clear rules to protect the rights of authors and performers alongside data privacy. acta does not do this. the commission must go back to the drawing board.
in writing. − the establishment of support schemes for farmers under the cap is important for ensuring adequate standards of living for farmers as well as good food quality and fair prices for consumers. given changes to the eu's comitology system, i am in favour of these amendments to council regulation (ec) no 73/2009.
in writing. − it is important to make the appropriation of funding fair amongst different sectors of rural development. i am in agreement with the opinion of the rapporteur on these matters and therefore have voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − i am in agreement with the commission's proposals with regard to the common organisation of agricultural markets but i also believe that they need to consider the distinction between delegated and implemented acts. therefore i support the rapporteur's conclusions and am in favour of these amendments.
in writing. − to serve the expectations and health of consumers, the quality of organic products must be regulated. ensuring the quality of organic products cannot be achieved without the application of necessary rules, which must be implemented by the designated authorities. i support the rapporteur's additions to promote and facilitate this and therefore am in favour of this report.
in writing. − changes to the eu's comitology system render certain parts of council regulation (ec) no 485/2008 out of date. it is important that legislation concerning the european agricultural guarantee be modified to ensure the efficiency of the system's financing. with this in mind, i support the rapporteur's proposals and am thus in favour of these amendments.
in writing. − i voted against consenting to the conclusion of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta). i am committed to offering innovators and rights-holders appropriate protection – indeed, a resolution i voted for in november 2010 highlighted this very point – however, we must also have appropriate safeguards to guarantee citizens’ privacy and fundamental rights. in addition, the negotiations on acta were carried out without any real transparency, and repeated calls to involve meps and civil society organisations more closely were largely ignored. furthermore, we should not require internet service providers to be the ‘sheriffs’ of the internet. this would be akin to asking post offices to monitor or filter letters on behalf of rights-holders. given the huge groundswell of opposition from citizens and civil society, i carefully considered how the acta agreement would impact on malta’s citizens, consumers and smes before i voted. unfortunately, as it stands, the agreement simply leaves too many gray areas open to interpretation. given the ambiguity in the text, this is far from ‘smart’ regulation. it is not clear how the agreement would affect citizens in areas such as privacy and freedom of expression.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 contains certain financial provisions that expire in 2012, although its policies continue to apply afterwards. the application of direct payments to farmers is an important part of this legislation. i therefore approve of this proposal to deal with the financial provisions for the 2013 transitional period and to ensure the consistency of direct payment to farmers.
in writing. − the welfare of animals is important for moral and economic reasons. there are problems within national laws regarding animal welfare as well as lack of compliance. a modern and scientific approach is needed, one which promotes animal health and sustainable development. for these reasons i support the rapporteur's conclusions and therefore have voted in favour of the report.
whenever there is pressure on our external borders, many member states have become accustomed to reacting in the wrong way. in some cases, they will work together to strengthen the external borders, they are re-entering and they are raising the internal borders between european countries. what they don't realise is that when they lift internal borders, they keep european citizens out, they lock in their own citizens, and they threaten the freedom of movement which is the european union's greatest achievement. in short, they threaten everything we have built together. we have two problems. the first is that the council is excluding the european parliament from decisions on schengen and therefore on freedom of movement. but it is clearer than ever that it is the european parliament that is fully defending the free movement of citizens. we want the european commission to be with us in this defence. the second problem is that we are not just talking about a risk of a threat to freedom of movement, but we are talking about a threat that is taking place, because as we have heard, we have one country after another introducing internal borders between schengen countries where borders are supposed to not exist. parliament called for this debate to affirm the importance of schengen, to affirm the importance of freedom of movement, and to send a clear message to the council that european citizens have freedom of movement, and we are ready to defend this freedom. i also hope that the commission will continue to support us in this fight for freedom of movement.
in writing. − i am in favour of this dossier as i believe that it strengthens both the common european asylum system (ceas), as well as the dublin ii regulation. while the dublin ii regulation works at avoiding situations where asylum seekers are sent from country to country and other abuses, i believe this report gives further substance to the notion of solidarity and responsibility-sharing between member states which would work to ensure member states across the union step up and comply with their international and eu obligations in terms of asylum. furthermore, such an initiative ensures member states would be equipped to improve the quality of their asylum procedures and have in place an adequate framework to ensure asylum seekers’ rights are fully respected. however, if europe wants a holistic asylum system it must understand that very often asylum seekers are victims of political repression, of organised crime or of economic poverty. thus initiatives must also involve the countries from which these immigrants depart, and must address the problems, especially economic problems of the immigrants’ countries of origin. the more serious the situation becomes, the greater the citizens’ loss of faith in european institutions.
in writing. − i fully support the report on european standardisation, aimed at revising and replacing the existing legal framework on european standardisation by simplifying rules and accelerating the standard-setting processes especially in the fast-developing ict sector. however, alongside the process, we need to ensure cooperation and balanced representation of all stakeholders in the system at national and eu levels, so as to ensure transparency, clear division of responsibilities and consistency of the standards across europe. improving transparency, consultation and involvement of the relevant parties in the process are crucial elements needed to guarantee that standards are useful and truly market-driven tools preserving fundamental and social principles. the focal point of the standardisation process should be the involvement of smes in the standardisation activities, particularly in the work of national standardisation bodies. national standardisation organisations should promote and facilitate the access of smes to standards and their development by applying special rates and providing bundles of standards at a reduced price. member states should also consider exempting micro-businesses from payment for these services.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am very moved. i am moved because we have two wonderful rapporteurs who in their diversity managed to bring to this house and to our action the human feelings and the emotions which we need in our european policy-making. european policy-making is not about institutions, it is not about this parliament, it is not about the commission, it is not about power to brussels. european policy-making is about giving help to people, making them feel that europe is their place to be, that wherever they go they will feel secure, that somebody cares, and the question of victims which we discussed today is a very good example of this europe we are building together. when i become commissioner for justice i had to look at criminal justice and i discovered that of course in the different member states we have very different systems. they all have grown, some over centuries and some over decades. they are all sui generis and they have all their values, but they are very different. what about the citizens who are travelling from one country to another – whether as tourists or students, or because they want to work in a neighbouring country? they are lost when they find themselves victims in a system they do not know, because it is their home system that they are primarily aware of. that was the first element. the second element was when i analysed what is happening in criminal justice, i saw that everything revolves around the criminal, the one who has committed a crime; but in most of our justice systems, the victims of crime receive no attention. that is the person who really counts – or indeed ‘the persons’ if we look at the family of those victims. i had a very important experience with a mother, a mother whose son had been severely injured during a holiday trip to a beautiful southern island. this mother’s name is maggie hughes, and when she wanted to help her son she had no possibility of helping him. she went to a foreign country, she did not understand the language, she could not speak to the doctors, she could not speak to the police, she had nobody to help her. what did this woman do after this terrible experience? she did not come to me and say: can you not do this or that for my son? she asked me: can you not draw up european legislation so that what i have lived through will never happen to another mother? that was the origin of what we are discussing today. that was the origin of saying: yes, we put people at the centre of our european endeavours; yes, we are making laws which will help our people, our 500 million citizens, so that wherever they go and whatever happens to them, they will feel at home in the place where they have a problem. therefore, thank you parliament, thank you council. thank you for having made this possible. i think that the message we give today on 11 september when we think about victims of terrorism is that we also think about all victims. we think about the woman who has been raped; we think about the child who finds himself without any help; we think about the people who have been burgled; we think about the wife whose husband has been murdered in a neighbouring country; and we say ‘how can we help them so that they get their rights?’ what we are doing today is not about the direct victims, it is also about the families of those victims who very often feel completely alone and helpless. in future europe is going to be there in order to help them. they are going to be part of the judicial system. the police are going to be specially trained to care for victims’ needs. victims will get information from the point of first contact with the authorities; they will be provided with interpretation and translation to enable their participation in the court action. they will get specialist support, targeted for victims of sexual violence, victims of gender-based violence, victims of domestic violence, and children who are always going to be considered vulnerable. particular attention will be paid to some categories of victims, victims of terrorism, organised crime, human trafficking, gender-based violence, sexual violence, exploitation, hate crime, victims of disabilities. they are all human beings and our responsibility here is to care for them. our victims package of today, our directive, our european law, is going to be the first step to address the rights for victims of crime across the european union. we are going to tackle as a next step the compensation to victims by the offender. once an agreement has been found between parliament and the council, we will be able to help and assist the member states in getting those provisions introduced into national law, and we will support practical projects on the ground that are crucial for ensuring that victims can obtain effective rights in practice. we are going to say loud and clear: ‘we europeans care about people’ – and support to victims is about caring about people. my thanks to all those people who have managed to help in order to make this legislation become a reality.
on behalf of the ppe group. other when a crime is committed, we immediately think about how we will bring the persons responsible to justice and also how we can prevent the crime from happening again. this is good, but we need to think more about the victims. it is precisely what we are doing today through this law that i welcome. the added value of this law is not only that we are addressing the needs of victims and giving them specific rights, but, that we are also addressing them at european level because the same rights will apply to every victim, wherever they are in the european union. this will eliminate first-class and second-class victims, depending on the country they are in or their nationality. all victims will receive the same assistance. this law is therefore a great acquisition for everyone, because everyone can be a victim at any moment. this law is a big step, as the vice-president of the european commission said, in building a europe of citizens, a europe of freedom, justice and security, a europe that offers a high level of rights, and a europe that, after all, does not leave you alone at the moment you need it most, when you become a victim of a criminal offence. i would therefore like to congratulate vice-president reding, and the rapporteurs in particular teresa jiménez-becerril, on knowing how close this law is to her, also on a personal level.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this dossier as it is my belief that more should be done to safeguard the needs of victims in all member states throughout the union. victims should be able to receive free support from the moment they have suffered harm in order for their recovery from the trauma to be facilitated as much as possible. this directive would establish minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims, which would also ensure that quality support would be given. further to this, i agree that victims’ rights not only need to be standardised throughout the whole of the eu but victims must also be made aware of their rights within the framework. for this reason, information and awareness-raising campaigns, research and education programmes and cooperation with civil society agencies should be established by means of well orchestrated campaigns throughout eu member states.
in writing. – i strongly believe that, in the current economic climate where resources are already limited, the eu budget is one of the strongest instruments we have for investment and solidarity. the quality of our budget will allow for a better development of the policies, taking full advantage of the opportunities they provide in terms of european value added, in particular in times of heavy constraint on the national budgets. today, growth in europe has been stunted because of the severe austerity measures many countries are facing. for this reason the eu budget must, more than ever, work to increase growth and jobs through research, development and innovation, and the better governance of the policies including certain conditionalities, flexibility, positive incentives, concentration of funds on growth-enhancing measures, emphasis on results, and simplification in delivery. further to this it should aim to support long-term development and strategic european cooperation, and give additional support to member states that are currently struggling to overcome the crisis. for this reason, i agree that further negotiation on eu financing must be reasonable and give due importance to programmes such as erasmus, research and cohesion policy, and strive to make the eu budget a fairer, more transparent and more accountable mechanism.
in writing. – the single market is one of the most tangible results of european integration for citizens. yet, despite the significant accomplishments, the present dynamics of the market still do not match what citizens expect of it. in the midst of the economic and financial crisis, a well functioning single market is needed more than ever. europe needs a policy for growth and employment and i strongly believe that the single market is key to sustainable recovery. therefore we should aim for a single market that stimulates economic growth and job creation but also considers citizens’ hopes, fears and expectations. ultimately, it is always the citizens who will define change and who will make things happen. the levels of success of the single market will be gauged by the degree of support and trust it will get from the average anonymous citizen. the single market should be holistic in its concept and structure, thus achieving a balance between an open economy stimulating economic growth and job creation and an economic system fully integrating citizens’ concerns and at the same time giving a human face to the market by championing citizens’ interests, protecting consumers’ rights and enabling smes to compete effectively.
i would like to draw attention to the political developments in malta in recent months. in 2008 the nationalist party won the last general election with a relative majority of 49. 3%, which means a majority of one parliamentarian. in recent months this majority in parliament has suffered defeats in important votes, government deputies have repeatedly abstained and even voted against the government line, even ministers have been challenged. there was also the resignation of a deputy from the parliamentary group in the government. this means that the ruling party no longer has a stable majority in parliament but only a coalition agreement with this mp. in malta the government is running without an absolute majority of the people behind it and without a stable majority of deputies. parliament has not been functioning properly for months. state broadcasting is manipulated by the party in government. such a situation calls for the government to go to the democratic judgment of the people, i.e. an election. the nationalist government did not. faced with an economic crisis, malta needs a stable government capable of managing uncertainties. i call on the european parliament to follow closely the situation in malta.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission would like to congratulate ms costa on her important report. it is in line with the european strategy to create a better internet for children, which was set up recently by the commission to combine a series of instruments based on legislation, self-regulation and financial support. educating and protecting our children is a top priority and it is essential to find this balance also in the online world, ensuring that children and adults can be safe while getting the most out of digital opportunities. parliament is indeed on the same wavelength. first of all, the commission agrees on the importance given by the report to digital literacy and skills for children, since these will improve their job perspectives and help them become confident digital citizens. the report also encourages the provision of access to safe and quality digital content, which is another pillar of the new european strategy, since this will benefit both children and the development of the digital single market. furthermore, the commission would also like to emphasise that the audiovisual media services directive adopted in 2007 contains specific provisions to protect children in regard to audiovisual commercial communications. the commission also welcomes the recognition given to the role of member states to enhance media education. we will continue to support the identification and exchange of best practices in the areas of formal and informal education, in particular through the network of safer internet centres. we also need to ensure that the ict industry takes children’s needs into account and implements the right measures in their products. in this context, self-regulation is a key instrument. that is why my colleague ms kroes invited key ceos last year to join a coalition to make the internet a better place for children through concrete actions on areas which are mentioned in your report: reporting harmful content, age-appropriate privacy settings, content classification, parental controls and take-down of child sexual abuse material. past sectoral self-regulatory agreements have shown that the signatory companies have made progress in the area of child protection. but there is still room for improvement and we are looking forward to seeing the outcomes of that coalition, expected in the coming month. the commission is also well aware of the importance of fighting child sexual abuse material. we are committed through the european strategy to further enhancing cooperation with law enforcement, hotlines and isps to improve the process of notice and action. furthermore, the commission is committed to the launching and functioning of a global alliance against child sexual abuse online as a means of sustaining national efforts to improve identification and assistance for child victims, prosecution of offenders, prevention of crimes and reducing the availability of child pornography. finally, the commission welcomes your support for future funding for a safer internet. this funding through the proposed connecting europe facility will be vital to developing sustainable infrastructures to deliver better internet with high-quality content for children, while boosting growth and innovation. to do so, we must work closer together towards the common goal of achieving a better internet for children: a safe place, but also somewhere that young european citizens can enjoy while having the skills and awareness to make the most out of it.
in writing. – in contemporary society, young europeans are spending more and more of their time in the digital sphere, both on the internet as well as watching television. most young people highlight the positive opportunities offered by the internet, which they say are satisfactory, however there remain large numbers of inexperienced and naive web surfers, among whom minors, who when navigating lack certain awareness, protection and control. while parental control has, in many cases, proven to be a useful tool, it remains only partially effective on the internet and on electronic commutation networks. similarly, across the european union, member states have continued to work to eliminate such gaps in protection and control for minors and have produced laws and have encouraged self-regulation. eu funding has paved the way for tools such as the safer internet programme now well established in all the countries of the union. in spite of this, article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union argues that policies for children are holistic. the importance of safeguarding minors should be at the very top of our priority list and thus i believe a broader framework directive is needed to encourage closer coordination between member states and the eu.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the consumer credit directive as i believe it works two-fold, in guaranteeing high levels of protection to consumers, and by strengthening the internal market. it is safe to say that the harmonisation of credit law has substantially improved the level of consumer protection within the eu, and can prove to be a useful tool for the eu to continue to fight barriers such as those linked to language which currently hamper the full realisation of the single market and to further help the eu to overcome the current financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − i believe that long-term economic growth and prosperity depends on investing in far-reaching and all-encompassing social reforms. the union will never be able fully break away from the financial crisis if it does not view recovery from a social angle to the same extent that it does from a fiscal or economic viewpoint. austerity measures are as important as a proper well thought-out plan for social investment and growth – one system cannot function without the other, austerity measures alone will not work, this has already been proven. tackling poverty, unemployment, illiteracy, shortcomings in our educational systems on the one hand and promoting social inclusion and assistance on the other hand is the way forward. the european social model is based on solidarity, equality, social justice and human rights. putting into place a sound social investment pact, together with investment in innovation and research as well as a social competitive single market, will bring economic returns and help lift europe out of the crisis in the medium term but most importantly in the long term.
in writing. − shadow banking institutions are undoubtedly important players in the eu economy: they make up about 30% of the global financial system. although shadow banks offer an alternative to regular banks, these are still largely made use of by the latter and therefore the interconnection and to a certain extent symbiosis between the two remains of utmost importance in maintaining stability and enforcing the right controls in our financial markets. better financial checks and supervision of credit management by regular banks and non-bank financial institutions such as shadow banks have strengthened and been refined since the crisis. the eu is better equipped to monitor the flow of credit throughout the union and beyond, yet work still needs to be done. the parliament’s call for the setting up of a central registry of risk transfers between these non-bank financial institutions and regulated financial institutions will enable there to be closer scrutiny and controls. the fact that parliament is supporting that real-time mapping and monitoring of transactions is put into place, in order to identify the riskiest deals, is also commendable
in writing. − i would like to express my concern at the lack of decisiveness from some quarters particularly from a number of member states in relation to the budget targeted for esf aid to help repair earthquake damage in italy. i believe that a declaration of political support showing solidarity with earthquake victims is not enough in the circumstances. i appeal to the council and in particular to the member states that are blocking approval of the required budget to allow the necessary funds to become available in the interest of all eu citizens. i also appeal to member states and the council to move away from the rhetoric of austerity to justify lack of reasonable funding for just causes. such an approach to the eu budget is an obstacle to the implementation of eu policies during 2013 that is in contradiction with the declarations made by member states in the recent past. i reiterate my support for the position of this parliament to support the commission’s proposal to add eur 8.9 billion to the 2012 budget to allow the commission to reimburse member state authorities for funds they advanced to beneficiaries in their countries and to ensure that programmes such as lifelong learning including erasmus, rural development, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the 7th framework programme for research and development are given the necessary funding to operate as planned.
in writing. − the podimata report on enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of a financial transaction tax is a recommendation giving consent and authorisation to member states that have indicated their readiness to proceed with the establishment of the ftt tax within the framework of enhanced cooperation. although i have a number of concerns and i cannot support a common financial transaction tax for all member states, as this would have an adversary effect on countries like malta, where the financial sector contributes substantially to national gdp and employment, i cannot interfere in the choice of other member states should they decide to move faster on the adoption of the finical transaction tax on their territories by means of enhanced cooperation, as long as it does not prejudge the member states which will participate. therefore, i am in favour of the podimata report, as long as the competences and obligations of the non-participating member states are not affected and they are not required to raise such taxes on their territories.
in writing. − in principle, i support the beňová report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu (2010- 2011), which endorses the need for a coherent eu human rights policy approach that promotes fundamental issues and priorities like the ones on the rights of minorities, anti-discrimination, roma, citizenship, data protection, etc. moreover this is the first annual report after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and since the charter has transformed values and principles into tangible and enforceable rights. however, i will vote against the reference to abortion.
