i have the difficult task today of replacing our president, mr lothar bisky. i am glad to do so and i speak on his behalf when i first congratulate you warmly on your presidency. you got a majority in one go. however, i would also like to thank the other candidates very warmly for offering counterbalance. they have done a very good job and i hope that in the future many more people will be running. personally, i'm very sorry you're not a woman, but there's nothing you can do about it. i hope you'll show your feminine side once in a while. a lot of members voted for you. i am sure that many members have done so to please you, but i am also sure that there have been members who have thought: we'll make it hard on that mr. schulz. you have been elected at a very difficult and difficult time, at a time of crisis. i think that the european parliament has a very important role to play in this economic and social crisis. we are the only institution directly elected by the people. the citizens are currently afraid of losing their jobs, their pensions, the affordability of health care, their old age pension, but also the future of their children. i hope you will give a voice to those citizens. i'm asking you to do that. i know that in many bodies in the european parliament, money and big business often play the main roles. we are here to represent those citizens. many agreements are made behind closed doors, where the public cannot see the negotiations. i hope that you will ensure that there is more transparency, but also that you will express the different opinions of the large and small groups in the european parliament. you are the president of all of us. we of the unitair links will also be addressing you to this effect and i wish you much wisdom in the coming period.
mr schulz, first of all, i want to congratulate you on the electoral deal that was made two and a half years ago and that has put you in your place. i should like to congratulate you on that on behalf of my group. unfortunately, we did not have an election debate. we would have liked to have seen that. but anyway, the outcome was obviously predetermined. you came off the bus a winner, so we're gonna do it together. you called my colleague a fascist in this chamber about a year ago without any justification, and that is not the way of a democratic member of parliament. you've never wanted to distance yourself from your words either. you shouted it loud and clear across the room, and you don't take credit for it. i am very sorry and i hope you will take back what you said. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is not our intention to call each other fascists, and it does not belong in this chamber. we are all democratically elected and we are also democrats at heart, and we must respect each other as such. president, this european union is bankrupt. never before have citizens had so little confidence in the future of this european union. more and more citizens want sovereignty back to the member states. small countries can indeed prosper and cooperate peacefully - for that is precisely the strength of europe - under the military banner of nato. so all this rhetoric about war, i'm sorry, mr. president, but it's inappropriate. we are fortunate to have had decades of peace in europe, at least in our part of europe. ladies and gentlemen, the megalomaniacal europe of the social democrat schulz is bankrupt. europe is deeply backward, corrupt and wasteful. we must all do something about it. i hope, mr schulz, that you will be our president too, that you will become our president and that you will leave the social democrats behind and stand above the parties. i hope that you will be a worthy president and will have an eye on all the democratic currents represented in this chamber. the non-attached members, although not forming a political group, are democratically elected and entitled to equal treatment with our president and everyone else in this chamber. although we do not share your vision of a social democratic european welfare state - because we believe in the power of sovereign countries - we would nevertheless like to try to give cooperation a good start. so i wish you success in your new position. it would be a very good start if you could finally get down to the task of carrying out a long-cherished wish of this parliament, namely to abolish the moving circus, that wasteful moving circus between brussels and strasbourg. i would like to say this to you, mr president. it would be a fine gesture if you could make it at the next summit and i wish you every success in your new role as president. we're gonna do our best to get this thing off to a good start.
unfortunately, mrs thorning-schmidt, i have never heard so much hollow rhetoric and empty words as i have from you at this moment. you look like barroso. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe has been promising economic growth for 15 years. the lisbon strategy promises that europe will become the strongest economy in the world, and yet it has proved to be a joke. in reality, european socialism has led to mass unemployment, bankrupt member states, economic decline and politicians who are only filling their own pockets. but i have an urgent appeal to you, because the netherlands has a big problem with europe. the netherlands has one of the best social systems in the world and we are proud of that. but europe, the european bureaucracy is destroying the dutch system. it is not possible for european migrant workers to be entitled to social benefits after only one year. it should be at least ten years before you can use it. europe has banned it. it is very important that the netherlands be given the space to keep all those romanian and bulgarian fortune-seekers out of our social system, so that it can continue to exist for the netherlands. so you want to put that high on the agenda, mrs. hella thorning-schmidt?
in writing. - i do not support the resolution on the draft agreement. the reason for this is that it speaks of a move towards economic and fiscal union. while agreements are needed to boost competitiveness in weak member states, economic and fiscal union goes further. the european parliament also calls for a roadmap for euro bonds. i can't support that either. it reduces the incentive for budgetary discipline, because countries in difficulty can still finance themselves at too low an interest rate. in greece, too low interest rates have contributed to the inflow of money which proved unrecoverable due to insufficient competitiveness. that's not why i'm here. it would also be very costly for those countries which, because of their sound budgetary discipline, are now borrowing at low interest rates. i am also in favour of the new agreement, which should help to strengthen budgetary discipline. a step in the right direction for two reasons: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budgetary discipline and the budgetary discipline of the participating countries, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budgetary discipline.
in writing. - my final vote on this report was in favour. this does not affect my serious doubts about the financial transaction tax.
mr president, a prime minister with a two-thirds majority in his own parliament does not need to tamper with the constitution to achieve results. he doesn't need such a large majority to put the knife to the throat of the minority to rule over his grave. that still remains the big question in your motives. why don't you just take the normal route? for these reasons, you will not be stopped by other countries. you are not being stopped by the commission either. an infringement procedure where three subjects are dropped and another thirty or so subjects are left - i am talking about freedom of religion - will probably lead, as you have said, to two or three changes and to the cessation of the infringement procedure, as we have seen with the media law. three amendments and the commission's comments were withdrawn. meanwhile, journalists are being robbed of their jobs and radio stations are losing their frequencies. my question to you, mr orbán, is why not walk the straight and narrow like a proper democrat with a majority?
president, the hungarian parliament has adopted a constitution and many laws in record time. the new constitution does a fine job of enshrining the values of marriage and life. prime minister orbán is charting a new course, showing himself to be euro-realist and dealing with the communist past. that's fine, but prime minister orbán should be careful not to fall into the same trap as his communist predecessors, which is to want to gain maximum control over many parts of society. freedom and responsibility will be at stake. because i too am concerned about the growing political influence on the hungarian bank. i too am concerned that politics will determine the appointment of hundreds of new judges. but many in this parliament are also reacting prematurely. the idea of calling for the suspension of hungary's membership now is left-liberal nonsense. the commission has now initiated the initiation procedure. let us wait for that and the debate with hungary. that's the way it is.
mr president, this debate is actually not about hungary and it is certainly not about mr orbán. this is actually a test for europe. this is a question that we have to put to ourselves. are we willing to defend our common values when it really comes down to it, when those values are under pressure? can the rules that we have laid down in the treaties, in the charter of fundamental rights, in european legislation, actually be enforced? that is the question that we have to answer here today. as mr verhofstadt, the leader of our group, said, this is not about objections to single measures. it is about the accumulated impact of all those measures together, which justifies the activation of the article 7 procedure. i am actually quite surprised at the attitude of the epp group, because if it is true that all the allegations against the hungarian government are lies and invented by the media, then it should embrace the article 7 procedure as an opportunity to prove them all wrong. i also hope – and here i am looking at the other side of the house – that we will get the support of the socialist group for the proposal of the liberal group and the greens to use the article 7 procedure. finally, i think that this debate should not distract from the fact that there are violations in nearly all member states of the european union. just as the debate on greece was more about exposing the weakness of the eurozone as a whole, the debate today is not about hungary: it is about the values of europe, and whether we are willing to defend them.
on behalf of the green group, i would first of all like to thank commissioner hedegaard for her role in durban. we have shown that when europe works together and speaks with one voice, we can indeed make a difference on the world stage. i think this was the most important result of durban: to show that europe can make a difference. thank you so much for that. but there is still a lot to be done, because we all know that the climate has actually done very little to improve it. the gap that exists between the 2 degree target that we've promised and the reduction that we've promised by 2020 is still enormous. we're still on our way to three or four degrees. that's still a big climate problem, and we don't have to wait until 2020 to do it. you are right when you say that we have a lot of work to do between 2012 and 2015. what is the most important thing for the green group? building on the alliance with the least developed countries and low-lying islands. they have chosen the side of europe and we must keep them credibly on our side in the coming period to continue to exert pressure on china and india. these countries need a credible trade policy and a credible technology policy. europe will have to be very consistent in this. speaking of credibility: europe will also have to take the lead in showing that we are willing to act. that means a step up to -30% - leaked studies show it's cheaper again - and the "set aside". the european parliament, the committee on the environment, decided to do so in december. the commission must now take the initiative. we can trade. we have to do it for the climate.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job. it wasn't easy either. the truth is, the gold is actually on the street. we're actually throwing precious metal. in this time of crisis, we can't really afford that anymore. the modern equipment - we've heard it all before: cell phones, but also the circuit boards, basically all the modern equipment -- is crammed with all kinds of stuff that we want back. we are now talking about that in the directive. it is mainly about the collection, but it should not be only about the collection, because if a butcher dismantles a mobile phone, you will still get a worse result than if a specialist dismantles it. so it's not just about taking the equipment, but whether we actually want to take out what we want to take out. so that's why when you collect, you also have to look at reuse, dismantling, preprocessing, recycling and melting. and we have to look at recovering the highest-quality, highest-feasible, rather than the easiest, because we all know that it's being dumped very quickly across the border, and that's bad for the environment, and we're not even getting what we want out of it.
mr president, it is the beginning of january and the season has begun. the season when companies come up with their annual figures from the past year and expectations for the coming year. we all know they're gonna be bad. they'll be disappointed. of course you are . the economic crisis, high unemployment, poor sales. but i'll let you in on a little secret. the explosion in the cost of raw materials will be reflected in almost all company figures. the number of people who have been unemployed for more than a year has risen by tens of thousands. this is a permanent blow to the european economy. that is the essence of the directive we are discussing here today. because we throw away hundreds of pounds of gold, silver, platinum, cobalt without reusing it. this should also be a top priority in the council. but unfortunately, the council is penny-wise, pound-foolish. it seems to be the approach to the euro crisis. i thank the commission, mr president, for the excellent work it has done in getting a good compromise on the table, with mr florenz as rapporteur, but in the end the compromise is not what we need to achieve a europe that is really efficient with its resources.
president, first of all, i would like to congratulate you on your re-election as vice-president. the distribution of value in the food supply chain is far from fair. the report by mr bové and the oral questions point to the problem. the primary producer is caught between highly concentrated raw material suppliers and powerful customers. higher input costs cannot be translated into higher output prices by the primary producer. primary producers remain a very vulnerable group when it comes to the distribution of value in the chain and that is why they must have the space to strengthen themselves together, as my colleague mr ashworth has just said. can the commission clarify how much room the legislation currently provides specifically for making arrangements to recover the costs of sustainability initiatives? and what about the room for self-regulation? what measures does the commission envisage to address undesirable dominant positions of buyers?
mr president, this is not the first time we have spoken about the very crooked distribution of power and margin in the food production chain. and if we are honest, the european commission has been insulting this parliament for years by ignoring our demands. yes, there is a high-level group, yes there are reports, but there are no concrete initiatives. so i am pleased with the commissioner's small undertaking. but who suffers from this lack of action? that's the primary producer. in this respect, it is very significant that the commissioner for industry is sitting here. i have heard him speak about industry, about processing, about competition between companies. but where is the greatest unfairness in the food supply chain? that is between the farmer, the primary producer and the rest of that chain. i haven't heard from him. and to mr agnew, who finds this debate so important that he has already left the room, and to all his colleagues from the british conservative party, who put the interests of the city of london, with its warped financial products, above the producers of their daily bread, i will tell you how the market really works. when a dutch tomato producer, during the ehec crisis, is confronted with a price drop of more than 50% not through any fault of his own, but just as the result of silly remarks made by a german minister he is happy that at least he has a contract with a supermarket for a fixed and agreed price. but what happens in reality is that this supermarket - which by the way is german - then returns his tomatoes because it knows that in this crisis it can force the producer to agree to a lower price. this, commissioner, is the way the market works at the moment, and if you had done your job, this would not be possible in a european internal market. this house talks about fair trade with third world countries, but fair trade starts at home, with a fair price for european producers. that's your job, commissioner.
in writing. − i voted in favour on amendment 3, because i do not agree entirely with abolishing the current system of milk quotas. i do believe, however, that we should move to a more flexible system of attribution of milk quotas in the future.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr farage has of course made a very important point here, because mr brok can say that europe is making peace, but as things stand now i am afraid that will not last very long. what it is is: does mr brok, both personally and on behalf of his group, think it is normal to put a country under curatorship without consulting the people of that country in a referendum? and do you think it is normal that eurobonds might be introduced without your fellow countrymen, the germans or the dutch, being able to vote or decide whether they want to do so? the limit of what is democratically possible has, of course, been crossed. so i would ask you, mr brok: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the first eurotope of the new year is already here, and as far as the pvv is concerned, it is a totally unnecessary summit, again. nothing has been decided yet. vague plans were made to curb youth unemployment in the eurozone and greece was not even mentioned. president. - the next item is the report (doc. even a 70% haircut will not bring their national debt below 120% in 2020. you know that, i know that and all independent economists know that. you're playing poker with the taxpayers' money, liar's poker. and then there is budgetary discipline: that seems to be the magic word for 2012. but you know, mr president, that a strongly shrinking economy does not produce eagle cubs. how can you, mr barroso, defend the fact that the small portuguese pension of 200 euros a month should be paid? and if that does not help, the fact that portuguese interest rates rose to record highs yesterday is a testament to that. the markets don't believe in it. it's the same as asking if water can burn. it is hopeless, mr president. there are 23 million europeans unemployed at the moment. in southern europe, more than half of young people under 25 will be unemployed. i thought the eu promised to bring prosperity, but instead it brings us a nightmare. finally, mr president, there is the terrible esm treaty. we would have liked to have seen the new text which has been adopted, but it seems that it will not be made public until the european council has signed the treaty. we would like to know where we are, mr president, time is running out.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, iran replied to the most recent eu sanctions with surprise, a surprise not only mentioned by officials but also reflected in the further decline in the value of the currency, as the eu remained united in its sanctions package of 23 january. the eu is strong when it stands united and leads, as the vice-president/high representative has said. let us see more of it. however, isolating iran is not a success or goal as such. the alde group would urge the vice-president/high representative to work with turkey and other partners, to do everything possible, to use all diplomatic means available to encourage iranian officials to engage in meaningful negotiations over the nuclear issue. this also means looking into different ways in which iran might be persuaded, and not just at sanctions. the eu should also look at having a permanent representation in iran and eventually open an eu representation on the ground, to relay more directly our joint concerns over human rights violations, besides our vital role in the e3+3 negotiations. may i remind some members on the conservative side of this house especially, that sanctions are an ultimate means and not a goal in and of themselves. i am proud and glad that the eu has always clearly distinguished between seeking to impact individuals with responsibilities for either the nuclear programme or human rights violations, but not the iranian population. they, after all, feel largely unrepresented by their political, military or religious leaders. it is therefore even more important that the eu acts independently of the united states, especially in an election year. the us has consistently chosen different sanctions packages to the eu, but the us sanctions also impact eu businesses by imposing not only direct but also indirect sanctions. i believe food and medicine should always be able to reach the iranian people. one last point that is of particular importance for the people in iran, especially the young generation, and that is the role that technologies can play in either enhancing or threatening human rights. i believe the eu should take its responsibility in ensuring, at least, that no repressive technologies are exported to such repressive regimes, and this we can do now without controversy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, in reply to mr tannock, i meant to point out that there are specific members who are keen on imposing sanctions. the european people’s party has asked for a split vote in a text that is also before this house tomorrow, a text which seeks to have a consistent eu approach to repressive regimes and in which we clearly state that the eu does not impose sanctions in order to target entire populations, but rather to address individuals. i think the text is appropriate and i regret the fact that there are apparently some people on the conservative side of this house relative to where my group stands, who seek to talk about sanctions as a whole, instead of making that important distinction which i am glad mr tannock will make as well.
the leadership of the islamic republic is under heavy pressure, both externally and internally. even the authority of khamenei, the supreme leader, is openly questioned. now, at this moment, it is giving the international community the opportunity to dissuade iran from its nuclear misguidance, perhaps even the last opportunity. madam high representative, you know personally how extremely difficult it is to negotiate with tehran in a genuinely serious way. i hope very much that you will find a closed transatlantic, - mr schaake, can you hear me? - transatlantic front behind you in 2012. the transatlantic front is not moving in the persian gulf at the moment. consider the assistance of england and france to the american fleet, despite all the war rhetoric and provocations on the iranian side. this transatlantic position also supports the inspection regime of the international nuclear community. this is the current test case for tehran, and not the other way around as parliament's president larijani claimed yesterday. the outlines of the islamic schism between sunnis and shiites are once again emerging in full force in the middle east. a nuclear arms race is threatened by iran's nuclear ambitions. your task, europe's task, is to help prevent this disaster.
"blue card" question. what is it? are you aware that the islamic republic of iran has repeatedly threatened the jewish state of israel in the middle east with destruction? have you ever been aware that israel treated iran in the same way? i'd like your reaction!
for the ppe group i was positively surprised by an article from none other than prime minister putin in handelsblad telling the world how he wants to modernize russia, the state and the economy. in that article he states that present-day russia is dominated by the state, that it suffers from great corruption and that everything should be different. that is good news for the russian people, but also for us! because what would be nice if one were able to break through a false culture and thus become a truly democratic country. but, mr president, what i also notice is that in that article there is no mention of the human being in russian society. where the market must be given new freedoms to inspire new confidence, there is a complete lack of concern for the freedoms of people. a society in which man is subordinated to the market, a society in which man, as an individual or collective, is deprived of fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms, will not work, no matter how well it is put. if russia is to become modern and prosperous, it must take the honour of putting an end to all the illiberties twenty years after the fall of the soviet union and it must really start working towards a genuine democracy. we have seen, mr president, and mrs ashton has just said it, that the democratic rights of citizens have been trampled on in recent times. we saw this in the duma elections. and we hope and count on the presidential elections to be different, but the signs are not positive. what is true of human rights in russia is also true of russian influence abroad. if the russian leadership is credible, it will waive an irresponsible veto and it will not hold the syrian leadership in contempt and actively support with weapons against people who are seeking their freedom. mr president, we can now begin to see whether these are not just words but deeds.
draft report by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights. - then i may perhaps take the three minutes to use the time of the two colleagues who are not present. i would like to thank mr fisas for his report. i am particularly sorry that an amendment which was adopted in both the juri and imco committees, namely on a dialogue between the commission and the professional sports organisation, was not adopted in the cult committee. that means that we deny that professional sports must adhere to economic legislation within europe and that there is still insufficient equality when it comes to european competitions. we see minimum ages for sports contracts. not good! we see that there are huge differences in the tax treatment of professional sports. we see a lot of things that don't make sense in relation to each other. the commission must therefore enter into dialogue with the professional sports organisations to ensure that professional sports are brought into line so that in the future we can benefit enormously from these sports and young people learn from them. i call for it. i support what my colleague mr fisas has written on the other points, but i regret that he has not taken up the opinion of the juri and imco committees.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. - sport is the main side-business for millions of europeans. sport is a daily mirror of the society in which we live. it is now up to the eu to put european sport policy on a sound footing and tackle abuses. unfortunately, the proposals of the european commission and the conclusions of the sports council show that good intentions are not followed by concrete action to effectively tackle these abuses. in 2010, for example, as many as 1,100 minors were trafficked in football in exceptional circumstances. to protect these young people, there must be a total ban. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. europe has been plagued by racist incidents in sport recently. the eu needs to show more leadership and take its motto 'united in diversity' seriously by implementing legislation that prohibits discrimination in the workplace. it must use targeted campaigns to make it clear that discrimination is unacceptable. this is of great importance in these times of populism and right-wing extremism. criminals on or off the field operate across borders. then we have to deal with them on that level. sports fraud should be included in the criminal law of each member state. europe must make it clear to sports organisations that cooperation with europol and eurojust is urgently needed. in short, a european sports policy is a desperate necessity and can serve as an example. the first proposals for a new sport policy are too loose for the time being. fair play and fraternity on the sports field are still the main objectives, but this can only be achieved with a strong sport policy.
on behalf of the s&d group, thank you, commissioner, for your positive words and for agreeing with us that there is an absolute need to pay attention to a good waste policy. in recent years we have seen many citizens from all over the world come to our committee on petitions. some countries, italy, bulgaria, romania, still have a very high level of landfilling, but frankly the petitions were not only from these countries. it turns out that waste is a problem that really needs to be taken seriously, a problem that is pressing on a lot of citizens. we see a lack of transparency. citizens want to know what's happening, want to know how the government is dealing with something that is seen as a problem at the moment, but is actually an opportunity. waste needs to be turned from a problem into an opportunity. because it is! you say: "yeah, it's good, we're going to pay more attention to that". but frankly, we have been in the plenary chamber several times - and this is not the first time we have asked this - asking the commission not just to say that something must be done, but to actually do something. we have rules, and those rules are good in the european union. we are very clear that there must be a plan, that there must be a hierarchy and how to deal with waste. but of course it is a matter of putting plans into practice, of actually doing something. that is why we are calling - and my colleagues are endorsing this - for real action, for a zero tolerance policy, for the closure of subsidies, so that pressure is exerted to enforce. finally, as soon as possible, to ask a member state to explain to the court why nothing is being done, to impose fines as soon as the time comes. i therefore ask for three things very clearly and that is also stated in this report, i will repeat it just for a moment. one: a zero tolerance policy. two , you 're not . the commission is also proposing to provide assistance for reconstruction when a member state cannot do it itself. in times of crisis it is difficult to find the people, the resources and the ideas to manage waste properly. and thirdly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. without transparency, he feels like he's being shut out. transparency on what happens to waste: is it toxic, what happens to it, where does it go, and is it done legally? what do we have to do to turn a problem into an opportunity, because we need those raw materials! let us, for the sake of peace, make the most modern regions out of those regions which are still in trouble in europe today and deal with waste in a completely new and creative way, because in the future we really will need every single plastic bag.
mr president, today we are dealing with the report on budgetary control of humanitarian aid, a very worrying report. first of all, the role of the united nations. the report states that the implementation of the control of donated eu funds at the un is downright poor. reports to the eu are vague and late. the court of auditors is prevented from accessing information on projects carried out and there is a lack of transparency, efficiency and effectiveness in the management of funds. reforms previously demanded are simply not being implemented. then there's the cost-effectiveness of relief in general. i know from my own research that fraud is taking place in eu development projects. olaf and the court of auditors are helping to bring things to light. my commitment is to make this happen more often and i will of course fight hard for this on behalf of the pvv. it is inconceivable that despite all these serious matters, an increase in the development cooperation budget is proposed. that is why we are naturally voting against this report.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of this resolution. it is important that consumers are well informed about the products they buy, so that they can make a balanced and responsible choice. they should be able to compare products by composition. the commission proposal [b7-0000/2011] to allow claims such as 'this product now contains x% less salt/fat/etc' does not sufficiently inform consumers. the product is compared only with itself and not with other similar products, which may already have much lower values in salt/fat/etc. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs themselves. the possibility of indicating on the packaging that the product has been improved can provide a positive incentive for producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, although i disagree with the content of paragraph 6.
mr president, a site has also been set up in the netherlands: propylene. there, anyone who disagrees with the pvv website can express their solidarity with all those workers who do such a good job in the netherlands. all colleagues who wish to express their solidarity can do so on the website www.propolen.nl.
president. - following on from what mr wortmann-kool has just said: it is a sympathetic initiative, but it would be appropriate if this house also spoke publicly about the pvv's disgusting initiative with the website where they call on people to anonymously submit complaints about fellow eu citizens. it would also be a matter of honour for the dutch government to distance itself from this.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, this may be a surprise, but problems at schipol airport, where there was a bomb alert today, have meant that ms essayah unfortunately cannot be here at the moment, so she has asked me to represent her. on her behalf, i would like to say that she is very happy with the outcome of the trialogue and the agreement which we reached with the commission and the council. she would like to thank the representatives of the council, commissioner barnier, the chair of the econ committee, ms bowles, the shadow rapporteurs and all those who proposed amendments and contributed to this excellent result, as well as the econ secretariat which makes our work possible. the completion of the single european payment area is of great importance for the european internal market and has numerous benefits for our citizens. from february 2014 onwards, all electronic payments in the euro area will be as easy as cash payments. citizens and companies will benefit from sepa in several ways, but the most obvious of them is that is possible to make payments to all over europe from a single bank account. that is now possible for everyone. all cross-border debit and credit transfers can now be done as if they were normal domestic payments. with sepa only one bank account is needed for the whole euro area by using the international bank account number or iban. this has many great advantages: only one bank account will be needed for the whole euro area. if a person is working abroad he or she will not need a new bank account in that country and may receive his or her salary to the one bank account in his or her own home country. sepa will also make it possible to use one and the same debit card anywhere in the euro area, so when you are on holiday or visiting another euro area country you will be able to benefit from these possibilities. sepa is good news at present concerning the euro and the eu. it will open up national markets to competition and make the payment sector more effective. according to an impact study published by the commission, sepa will benefit the european economy by eur 123 billion over the next six years. the benefits will be even greater because sepa creates favourable conditions for innovations such as automatically combining payments with the book-keeping of a company. this is the case in finland and in other countries such as the netherlands, which started implementing sepa at a very early stage. easy payments also make it very easy to buy goods and services via the internet from all over the eu. consumers will have real options to compare prices and get the best price. buying a computer from the cheapest eu retailer may save hundreds of euros, making prices go down everywhere in the single market. therefore sepa is in many ways essential for a well-functioning internal market. since moving to sepa has been too slow in the past, this regulation sets a clear end-date for the transition. parliament has succeeded in negotiating a single end date for both sepa credit transfers and direct debits: 1 february 2014. in those member states which do not have the euro as their currency, the date will be 30 october 2016. this will make it easier to adapt to the change and to carry out information campaigns for consumers. parliament has also achieved the right level of consumer protection: consumers may now instruct their banks to limit direct debit collection to certain amounts and to establish positive or negative lists of payees. it will no longer be necessary for consumers to provide banks with special bic codes for domestic or cross-border payments after the end-date and after two years. for ease of adaptation to the new system, several waivers provide a two-year transition period after the end-date. for example, a member state may allow companies which use badge files sent to their payment service providers to avoid using the standard message format xml for two years. a member state may also allow consumers to use their old bank account number instead of ibans for two extra years. the payment services directive is being reviewed later this year; this will be an important step in finalising the entire system and ensuring that it works. on behalf of ms essayah, i would like to underline that we are very happy for both citizens and companies in the european union and throughout the sepa area that all cross-border transfers and direct debits can be done as if they were normal domestic payments. we have now managed to achieve a real single european payments area.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all my thanks to the rapporteur who is, i understand, stuck at schipol airport. she did a very good job. i will not go into the details of the proposals because the rapporteur’s representative has set out all the expected benefits from sepa. i would instead like to focus on the process that has taken place. quite frankly, if you listen to the benefits that we expect to get from sepa, it is completely incomprehensible why it has to take so long, why there are such long transition periods and why there are so many exemptions. we are in the middle of an economic crisis. we all agree that we need to complete the internal market, and i am really worried at how something relatively minor, like sepa credit transfers and direct debits, can take so long and be so difficult. i understand that people will have to get used to new systems, but if you look at what we are asking of our greek fellow-citizens, if you look at the changes in the arab spring, do we really think that changing from 12 to 18 digits in a bank account number is the main worry in the european union? sorry, but we need to change, europe needs to change. we need to complete the internal market; we need to strengthen our economic position in the world. payments are the lubricant of the single market, certainly with a view to e-commerce, and therefore i hope that all the member states will meet the deadlines, which are very generous. i also hope that when we talk about new payment methods, which we are going to look at next, the process will be speedier than it has been so far.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the basic question - as mrs hübner has already pointed out and also stated in the questions - is how the european commission can release 82 billion at once for small and mediumsized enterprises and for youth unemployment. you visited us in the netherlands a week and a half ago. we've been able to show you how it works in practice. you take that one euro from the european programmes and you partner with the companies, the universities, the municipalities, the regional bodies. the balance is not one euro, but actually four euros in programmes. you do this three or four years in advance, and in my country - you have seen this too - it is the case that these programmes are set for 2012 and for 2013. we cannot sit around and whine about this now, because then everyone who puts his co-financing and much more on the table will wonder where the trust in the government has gone. so the question is, given that that 82 billion is about the same as what we have for those two years, is this an accounting approach, in the sense of: "there's so much left to spend"? or can you give the space by country, in france, in germany, in poland? then we know a little bit about what we're talking about. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should not be involved in the negotiations, because what bothers me is that the next day and the week after that it was in the newspapers that there were huge reservoirs of projects that were not implemented and that there was a very large margin in the cohesion fund and the regional funds.
the questions which have been put this morning show that we as a parliament want to be more directly involved in all the steps we are going to take and to take our legislative role fully seriously. that applies both to the text, the quotas and the regulation. i am the rapporteur for the general regulation on the five funds and i think the questions are heading in the right direction. i want to make one point today. i am a dutch representative in this parliament and i would like to return to the consequences of not going through with the agreement with morocco at such a late stage. the spanish fishermen have indicated that they are disadvantaged and that they would like to be compensated from the fisheries fund. that is also true of the dutch fishermen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. it's a very detailed question, but i'll get it from my backyard. it is not possible that there is a spanish solution and no dutch solution. equal monks, equal caps, we say in the netherlands. can you answer that?
mr president, my question is exactly the same as that put by malcolm harbour. if you look at all the initiatives of the european commission - for which i must say that they are very much to be commended - we are creating thousands of jobs in europe, or at least we can create thousands of jobs in europe. but we're not reaching the companies. there are many good initiatives in the member states. smes can create jobs, but somehow, despite the commission's enthusiasm, they are not being reached. i have two questions in that connection. the commission has been working for almost two and a half years now: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he will give us an interim evaluation of the way the sma works in practice in the field of the internal market? secondly, should we not link the single market to the european semester? the european semester is a thing that is going well in the member states, including with the national reform programme. member states are on top of it. shouldn't we be pairing up again?
i would ask the commission to look again at the method of communication. when i read the small and mediumsized enterprises' newspapers, i never see an advertisement from the european commission or, for example, from solvit. the union is not popular in some countries, but the single market is. can we not at some point have a television programme on the benefits of the single market, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises?
i am very pleased, mr president, that the compromise reached in the council of ministers solves an acute problem. the dutch government, among others, had almost caused 18 million of the poorest people in europe to lose their food aid suddenly. i'm still worried about you. no one seems to be thinking constructively about how we can help food banks to become independent of direct food supplies from the eu, and i think that is a great danger. member states are not preparing their food banks for the possible end of aid. meps ignore the fact that the programme can continue for two more years provided it stops by 2014. if we allow this uncertainty to continue, we will soon be at the same point as in december, with food banks still totally dependent and poor people suddenly threatened with starvation. we want to start working towards independence now. by giving food banks the tools to collect food that would otherwise be thrown away: trucks, computers, a logistics course, a public awareness campaign, exchange of expertise with food banks that already do it without government support. now that food aid has been secured for the next two years, it is very important to create clarity for the period after that and i call on the commission, the council and my colleagues to do so as soon as possible.
mr president, this debate has gone on for almost an hour before the two magic words are said, and that is soft landing. they are not to be found in the commission text, nor in the text of the agreement. i would remind you, however, of the following, commissioner: in the 2007 and 2009 reforms, when we finally opted for an end to milk quotas, for more market orientation, it was said that all member states should have the opportunity to prepare for the new situation, in other words, to gradually move to that new system. now, we find that the moment you choose to be more market-oriented, you're making that market play a bigger role, that power is unequally distributed when it comes to the food supply chain. this agreement is an attempt to strengthen the position of the primary producer and that agreement should be welcomed. there are good elements in that agreement, certainly, and i congratulate the negotiators. but i have my doubts. the problem is mainly the relationship between farmer and processor, whereas the problems are often further down the production chain, with the buyers of the supermarkets and the supermarkets themselves. this is where the big money is made, this is where you see a situation where supermarkets a few years ago had a margin on a kilo of young cheese of €0.20 and then, two years later, a margin on the same kilo of young cheese of €1.20. that's six times as much. so, for the last time, we ask the european commission: it is a matter of transparency in the food chain, where power is located and how margins are distributed. in conclusion: the agreement is a good instrument in the hands of certain member states to prepare them for the new situation. i am thinking of mountain areas, other disadvantaged areas, member states with a high level of protected origin. but other countries are now stuck in the armour of that milk quota system until the last minute and have to switch from the old to the new system overnight. so that's not a promised soft landing. as mr dantin has already said, we have taken a step, but we will have to take other steps in view of the new situation after 2015, and i hope that the european commission will do so soon.
mr president, in the past year important steps have been taken to strengthen the foundations of our economic and monetary union. the six-pack, the permanent emergency fund, the new treaty and the action of the european central bank to lend 500 billion in three-year loans to our banks are crucial building blocks. the problems are still great, but confidence seems to be returning step by step and we must be ambitious to continue on this path to promote sustainable economic growth. that is why i welcome, on behalf of our group, the report presented by commissioner rehn on macroeconomic surveillance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. but we must continue to build on the strengthening of our economic and monetary union, because that is the basis for our prosperity and employment. the debate on the stability bonds is an important one, because the issue of government bonds in europe is still fragmented over 17 submarkets. we're missing out on some very important benefits. euro bonds will not solve the present crisis, nor should they be an excuse for the sometimes painful but necessary cuts and reforms. however, these stability bonds can make a very positive contribution to a much more efficient issuance of government bonds in the future and can bring benefits to all of us in europe. the ep resolution is therefore also an important encouragement to the european commission to pursue further research into this highly complicated subject. there is still a lot of confusion, so please, continue on that road that is still full of foot holes and clampdowns, because it is in our common interest with a view to the future that we look forward to the issuance of joint bonds.
the radio spectrum policy, mr president, will bring the single market closer and will make communication easier. the freedom party therefore supports the agreements reached. the single market is the very raison d'être of the eu, and this applies to the free movement of goods as well as the free movement of ideas and opinions. no barriers to entry. the european institutions and national authorities must guarantee the free movement of ideas and opinions. the free movement of persons has social effects, including in the netherlands. the freedom party has now launched a website where citizens can share their experiences on this. but now the commission, the european parliament and ten ambassadors have spoken out against the possibility of citizens having their say. even commissioner kroes, responsible for internet freedom, has now turned against this law. that's the wrong signal. freedom of expression is at the heart of a democracy, at the heart of my party's political message and one of the fundamental rights of the eu and this commissioner in particular should know that.
madam president, at times when many people are sceptical about europe and wonder what it can concretely deliver to them, businesses, cultural and economic development, it is nice to be able to bring some good news. radio spectrum, like any move towards a true european digital single market, is such a subject. radio spectrum is scarce but it offers a number of opportunities and it is essential to make europe a global leader in this information society. this political agreement will pave the way for a development that will allow the eu to take the global lead on broadband speeds, mobility coverage and capacity. it will be a crucial building block in creating a flexible and coordinated european spectrum policy where the exponential growth of mobile data traffic can be met by future reallocations and where inefficient use of spectrum belongs to the past. this policy should help to create a true pan-european telecoms market. it is unfortunate that the european parliament was not able to achieve the extension of the allocations of unlicensed spectrum to allow for greater use of wi-fi. to preserve the european level playing field, and to take our opportunities in a highly competitive global economy, we should avoid a situation where newer and better technologies are at a disadvantage simply because they came later.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner kroes said last week that no one would be left behind if greece left the euro zone. so it seems that the commission has prepared an exit scenario which shows that it is better for the greeks to leave the monetary union, and i can imagine that very well. it is our duty as democrats to inform the citizens of all possible options. greece is now being squeezed by austerity, enforced by undemocratically elected bureaucrats. the troika is like a dictatorship. mr barroso, the commission has reversed mrs kroes's position on greece, but i would ask the commission for transparency. on the table with that exit scenario. in the meantime, billions of taxpayers' money are being poured into the bottomless pit of greece, while everyone knows, even the imf, that this aid will not help greece either. greece will have to leave the monetary union if it is to have any chance of economic recovery. even if we were to completely write off the greek debt, the greek economy would not be able to survive inside the eurozone. we and the greeks have a right to an exit scenario. there can be no democracy if there are all kinds of secret reports going around the commission. greece is sick to death and the cure is to reintroduce the greek drachma.
rapporteur. − mr president, if there is one lesson that we could learn from the past few years it is that our economies are totally intertwined. yes, we do need to coordinate. yes, we should let the commission look over our shoulders. this coordination adds necessary powers at the european level but, unfortunately, without adding necessary democracy at the european level too. we as a parliament do not accept such a limited role. with my report and the report of mr gauzès, we are presenting parliament’s view on what is currently most needed. although the council is not legally obliged to take account of it, i feel that it most certainly is morally and democratically obliged to do so. parliament’s main message to the council is this: we need far more coherence between fiscal and budgetary policies on the one hand and social and employment policies on the other hand. it is a tremendous mistake to ignore the social consequences of badly-aimed austerity policies or to forget that a currency is there to serve the people, not the other way round. i really hope that, at the spring council, one government leader will stand up and say: ‘dear colleagues, just hold on a minute. do you remember we had a meeting about two years ago where we set our goals for 2020 and, among other things, planned to increase labour participation, lift millions out of poverty and invest heavily in innovation? i am getting quite worried that, if we go on like this, we will not attain any of these goals. ‘ correct me if i am wrong, but if we all cut social benefits to get under the deficit ceiling, will that not actually push rather a lot of people into poverty instead of lifting millions out? if we cut down on things like labour activation measures and childcare, will that not really mean that labour participation will diminish instead of grow and that rising unemployment will, in turn, increase our budget deficits? ‘ furthermore, of course my calculator could be at fault, but is it not the case that if countries like greece, spain and portugal are not given any hope for recovery their debt will rise even as they are paying it off, because it is a percentage of their gdp and not actually a flat figure? ‘ perhaps what we should be doing is discussing how we can cut wisely in some areas and also invest in others. perhaps we should look further to the future and prepare ourselves for an ageing society by investing in education, innovation and youth employment. perhaps we should make our eu 2020 goals binding: as binding as the budgetary ones. ‘ i know that i am probably complicating things quite a bit by pointing this out, but as i was reading the european parliament’s contribution to our discussion i thought, by golly, they are absolutely right.’ well, any government leader who is courageous enough to point out the pain is very welcome to borrow that speech, and i am very sure that tomorrow’s vote will show that any such courageous leader would have the full backing of the european parliament.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all of you for this debate and to thank the shadows for working closely in a very speedy process. special thanks go to mr gauzès and mrs berès for the excellent cooperation on our reports. i am very proud to form a troika together with you, to refer to what mrs rapti said. we have shown that it is possible to deliver complementary views from the economic and the social side, and i am happy with the broad support expressed in this house for our work. i agree, mrs harkin, that both deficit and surplus countries should be addressed. unfortunately, in yesterday’s alert mechanism report, surplus countries like the netherlands and germany were unaffected. i hope mrs harkin will be able to support the paragraph in my report that counters this asymmetrical approach. i am happy that the call for a job-rich recovery, expressing worries about rising poverty, is growing louder in all institutions and all political groups. what i am afraid of now is that this call will remain lip service. we need measures to give the employment and social goals the power and standing to rise to the level of the budgetary ones, so perhaps we need an excessive unemployment procedure and an excessive poverty-increase procedure. why not expand what was once the six-pack – and is now going to be the eight-pack – immediately to a ten-pack, in order also to include the social and employment goals. and let us differentiate our approach, to give all member states a prospect of recovery.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's policies are not distorted by the threat of a civil war. "we have no one to protect us". is the day of calamity of ethnic and religious reckoning, the so-called day of the ax, already looming? what is the wisdom for the european union in this syrian snake pit? so i have a few questions for the high representative or her representative this afternoon. is there really any serious alternative to the assad regime at this point? the syrian opposition appears to be fragmented both politically and militarily. how does the high representative view the scenario of the disintegration of the syrian state? does it consider that there is a real danger, especially now that insiders say that the presence of al-qaeda on syrian territory can no longer be denied? one last question, actually more of a call. the union must make every effort, first and foremost at international level, to stop the bloodshed in syria by forcing the warring parties to the negotiating table. alternatives, even now, are driving the country further into the abyss.
madam president, it is easy to condemn the brutal murder, torture and rape of unarmed citizens and children in syria, but it is far more difficult to find effective solutions: the eu needs a strategy, and while no one is suggesting it is easy, and the future is indeed uncertain, we cannot and will not stand by and watch syrian citizens being slaughtered. tanks and fighter jets have been deployed; water, energy, food and medicine supplies have been cut off; a humanitarian crisis is looming. this is a man-made disaster for which bashar al-assad is responsible and we must make him stop. mr verhofstadt has mentioned our group priorities and i want to emphasise some additional important and concrete steps that the eu can take to step up its own efforts, irrespective of how china and russia seek to obstruct any un measures. let it not be eu member states who fail to enforce the arms embargo and sanctions. how did a ship with russian arms leave cypriot waters to reach syria? let it not be european technology companies that export systems used for mass surveillance, censorship tracking and tracing of dissidents. let it not be the same oil that fuels our cars to drive to the grocery store fuelling the tanks roaming the streets of homs. can the council and commission guarantee that eu sanctions and embargos are enforced? aside from a government-led war on syrian citizens an information war is raging. foreign journalists are expelled and brave citizen journalists risk their lives to share videos of their freedom cheers that are met with slaughter. we do not have a way of establishing the precise scope of the man-made disaster in syria, but 7 000 deaths and tens of thousands being detained in inhumane circumstances, as well as accounts of rape and hunger, tell us enough. these are people like you and me. in an increasingly globalised and connected world, with half of the citizens in the middle east being under 26 years of age, we must remain conscious of who the future generation will remember as defending their freedoms and rights as though they were their own.
mr president, human rights and their universality are increasingly under pressure as a result of block politics in the united nations and because of allowing countries into the human rights council who have less than a clean state themselves. this is problematic. another concern i have is how to ensure that the un human rights council takes the changing world sufficiently into account. as we speak, prisons are increasingly populated by bloggers. human rights defenders are presented under torture with transcripts of their email, mobile phone and other conversations. people are tortured for their passwords and we see that european technologies play an important part in making that happen in repressive environments. the struggle for human rights has moved online and digital freedom is increasingly essential for human rights, such as freedom of expression, press freedom and access to information, but also the documentation and sharing of human rights violations with the rest of the world. frank la rue’s un report on freedom of expression is essential in this regard. it also clearly states that copyright enforcement could risk undermining the respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. i would urge prioritising digital freedoms within the un human rights council context and to ensure that information is upgraded.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr derek vaughan, for his excellent work and the pleasant way in which he also involves all the shadow rapporteurs in his work. thank you very much for that. the previous two speakers on behalf of the s&d group and the ppe group have already shown that something is changing in this house with regard to the own budget. whereas last year it was really difficult to get cuts through this house, i find that now there is a willingness across the whole of this parliament to look much more critically at our own household. that makes sense. the economic crisis is widespread, and member states are faced with very large cuts. we have only one good answer to that, and that is to increase transparency. we are still far from having sufficient transparency in our budget. so that's one area where we have a lot more work to do. one element of this is also part of the report by mr vaughan, which calls for a study of our own budget to identify where the possible cuts are in our house. last year this house has already accepted the same request twice. both in the discharge report and in the same report we are discussing now, but from last year. unfortunately, the bureau has not responded positively to this so far. my political leader, guy verhofstadt, sent a letter to president buzek in december asking when we as the plenary, as the committee on budgets, would receive that analysis of the budget. i would therefore like to ask the president-in-office, mr schulz, to intervene in this matter. the secretary-general has analysed all the budget lines with the bureau and from this we have a selection as a proposal for the 2013 budget. let them give that analysis to the committee on budgets, and we can do the political work of making the choices there. we don't always have to leave that to the bureau. in conclusion, i very much agree with the general line of freezing and i hope that we can really decide on a much more austere budget for our own house for the rest of the year.
mr president, the member states have been cutting spending for years and rightly so. the european institutions hardly felt the need to cut back. they kept asking for more money and spending more money. fortunately, mr vaughan's report finally breaks with that wasteful tradition and wants to freeze administrative expenditure. bravo, very good, stop wasting! in your report you also ask for an independent evaluation of the budget by a working party of parliament. i'm less happy about that, because i don't think a butcher should be checking his own meat. we'll have to get an outside contractor to do that. the question of how to account for the general allowance for all members must also be raised in this evaluation, because the stain of non-accountability for the enormous expenditure made by members must disappear. accountability and transparency. paragraph 9 of the report calls for a freeze on the travel budget for 2013. at my initiative, the 2012 travel budget has already been put into reserve and i look forward to the secretary-general's report on it.
mr president, in the netherlands we have a saying: not words, but actions. the socialist vaughan report is the opposite: all words, but no deeds. he proposes to freeze the budget of the eu institutions, but does not contradict himself later when he says that the budget will have to be increased because of commitments. the budget must not be increased, but the accession of croatia alone has cost the citizen some eur 1 billion so far and it will cost much more. mrs vaughan proposes to continue structural and organisational reforms, but the committee of the regions, which was asked to do just that, has so far done nothing at all, as the recent budgetary control shows. the institutions are being asked to cut back, but the european court of justice is continuing to expand, which is not a message to the public. the budget for travel and individual allowances is being temporarily frozen and it sounds nice, but what really needs to happen is a heavy saving. in the meantime, a house of european history is being built, which will cost at least 75 million euros. the budget is increasing every year. but what does mr vaughan propose? name a working group. what a laugh! the citizen asks for action, not empty words. it is high time for the european union to listen not to the socialist talk but to the voter who is paying the real bill. and you know what that voter says? the eu has gone completely mad!
mr president, i should like to make the point that we are speaking in a vacuum because of the absence of the secretary-general and the vice-presidents who are responsible for the budget. i believe that this is something that we should consider in the next debates on this issue – that the three of them are all present.
author. − mr president, the issue at stake here today is whether we can be certain that our own european laws always apply within europe, or whether they could be overruled by third country laws. the us, for example, considers that its jurisdiction does not only extend to activities and actors within the us, but also the activities of such actors elsewhere in the world. with that interpretation, us law has extra-territorial effect within europe. the us, for example, can subpoena companies with a presence in the us to provide data stored in europe. we have identified, in our oral questions, a number of laws that might have this effect – for example the patriot act, the medicare act on medical data and insurance data, the foreign intelligence and surveillance act, and the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca). however, data stored in europe is covered by eu law and companies there have to comply with eu law. the commission acknowledges this, but what action has actually been taken to protect companies that find themselves caught between conflicting jurisdictions? this problem does not only concern the extra-territorial effect from us law, but potentially from any other country. there are also other countries where european companies have a presence. for example, more and more companies have operations in china, and they too can be confronted with this problem. as a matter of fact, we are getting more confirmation nowadays that such companies are being confronted with this problem. this does not only concern eu data protection laws, as the title of today’s debate suggests, but all kinds of laws. fatca, notably, raise strong concerns for european banks and insurers. commissioner, we hope to discuss this matter soon in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with your colleague, commissioner barnier. i would urge you to act now. we do not need new legislation, but it is key that we enforce existing european legislation in the interests of our citizens and our companies.
author. − mr president, i do not know about the procedure. simply, the most important question has remained unanswered, and i would like to be able to put the question again to the commissioner in order to get an answer before we leave. the question is: under current eu data protection rules, what can a company do to protect itself if it has an operation in the us and it has to comply with the subpoena? the subpoena says that data stored in europe – and therefore covered by eu law – must be provided to the us authorities. this is not through a mutual legal assistance treaty; this is a company which has an operation in the us and is being obliged to provide data stored in the eu. that data is covered by eu laws. how is the commission going to protect those companies, which are asking for protection?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0176/97). partners who want to be together, parents and children who want to be together and who now, for whatever reason, live in different countries. but it seems that member states are using that directive for the opposite, to deter migrants, to deter what they call in my country, the netherlands, 'disadvantaged migrants'. this is a flagrant abuse of a directive which is intended to respect family life and thus also to respect human rights. countries are ageing: can you get married at 18 or can you wait until you're 21? countries set income requirements for migrants who want to do family reunification, income requirements that they don't set for residents. countries are increasingly setting examination requirements: they require you to speak the language before you enter a country and they won't give you a residence permit if you don't speak the language. i see that in the netherlands. i see people trying to bring their partner to the netherlands, but if the partner happens to be illiterate, never learned to read and write, then he or she will not simply pass the dutch citizenship exam. the dutch authorities are thus saying: it will, with your right to family reunification. i therefore ask the european commission for clarification. can the european commission do this or should it introduce stricter rules to combat these abuses? after all, this is a question of family reunification and not - as i hear my french colleague say - of the absorption capacity of a country. it's not about that. it's about the right to be together. so could we be doing more to change this kind of abuse of integration legislation, or is that really very unwise? if we open pandora's box, are we gonna get a lot of trouble? the netherlands seems to be setting a trend. belgium is also now using integration rules to refuse permits. france seems to find it interesting. the question therefore is to us, to this parliament and to the european commission: we are not going to let the matter go on as it is and try to get judgments through the courts which are binding on europe to prevent abuse. and are we trying to use the directive for what it is intended to do, namely family migration, or are we trying to adapt the directive so that abuse no longer occurs? i have to be honest with you, i would like to see improvements, i would like to see tightening up, but i think our political line should be this: we are keeping it as it is and we are encouraging citizens to go to court and to claim their right to bring their partner to europe.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). this isn't about immigration policy. as claude moraes said, of course, you can't separate the two completely, but let's keep a close eye on what this is all about. this is about immigrants who want to build a stable family life. that is precisely what is in favour of integration. people who are forced to remain alone while their loved ones and their families live elsewhere have no stable situation. it is therefore in our interest to ensure that people can live in a stable family situation. we should also bear in mind that there are still many people who cannot claim this right, for example people who live together unmarried with children or same-sex couples. i therefore welcome the extremely forward-looking opinion of the competent committee in the council of europe to the european commission in this regard. of course, abuse must be prevented and forced marriages are something i abhor. but i must say, ladies and gentlemen - and this is a purely personal comment - that i think it is a bit of casual feminism to say that we must now fight this with this instrument. if we're going to empower women, i can think of a few things, frankly. we must focus on better implementation of the directive, on reducing the number of different interpretations, on bringing about more harmonization, a more harmonized application of the directive, rather than increasing the differences. i am therefore pleased to note from the commissioner's words that there is no support for the restrictions requested by the dutch government.
president. - i asked the dutch minister for immigration and asylum, mr leers, recently whether in his crusade against family reunification he had no compassion for people who love each other. his answer was: "life happiness is not a criterion for me". how can you say that? i am not a christian democrat! didn't christian democrats once say that the family is the cornerstone of society? does not christianity teach that love is the highest good? and does not the human rights convention state that family life needs protection? not according to this minister, who thereby denies his parentage and party. i now receive many emails from people who are desperate, who cannot build a family life because of the current dutch policy of integration tests, increased income requirements and far too high costs for residence permits. that's true for everyone, but especially for lgbt people. lawyers are now advising them to take the european route. that is to say, they move to another european member state because no member state has a policy as hardline as the netherlands. how far can a government sink? fortunately, commissioner malmström has shown time and again that her happiness does matter. abuse must be prevented, but europe will not make it impossible for lovers to live together in one of the member states. i'm still struggling with the green book. does the commission not thereby send the signal that family reunification policy is under discussion? could that energy not be better spent punishing a minister who is a disgrace to christian democracy and to the community of values that europe claims to be?
mr president, the influx of family immigrants into the netherlands will again be over 40 000 this year. family reunification is thus one of the main drivers behind this ongoing mass immigration, with problems such as cultural alienation, increasing ecological footprint and threatening the welfare state. i would stress that this is a matter of family immigration. they are not refugees in danger or at risk in their own country. the netherlands is now asking for the european directive to be extended so that we can decide on migration ourselves. after all, each member state is different. the netherlands wants to have room for its own necessary policies, but commissioner malmström believes that the problems of one country do not count. is she in this for the europeans? no, commissioner malmström's green paper is for immigrants. the commission argues that whole families should settle in the eu, but the right to family life can be exercised just as well, if not better, in the country of origin. commissioner malmström has no regard for the reasonable requirement that member states should be able to decide for themselves on matters affecting their survival. i would like to ask the commission once again to put the interests of the member states and the interests of society first. regulations must serve the interests of all, not just the interests of immigrants and the commission in its ivory tower. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8))
"blue card" question. what is it? president, mr zijlstra, i hear you say that it should be the dutch government itself which decides whether or not to admit family migrants. that's actually the case. my question to you is: are you aware that most family migration in the netherlands involves people coming to someone who has a dutch passport? whether that is someone who was born and raised in the netherlands or someone who later got a dutch passport, that is another matter, but it is dutch people with a dutch passport who bring a migrant, their partner or their child, to the netherlands. the netherlands could arrange that themselves, but they do not. why not, mr zijlstra?
mr sargentini wonders why the netherlands does not apply the rules that apparently exist. my answer is: there are no rules. the requirements the netherlands wants to impose on partner migration relate, for example, to a minimum income and to matters such as when there may be an independent right of residence. the european parliament considers that the european directive is still too restrictive in these matters. the netherlands is therefore not asking for the directive to be applied more strictly throughout europe, but for the netherlands to be given the possibility of applying wider rules.
the report on the implementation of the family migration directive and the green paper identify problems and shortcomings in national implementation. however, what some member states, including the netherlands, are doing is turning the problem around. they claim that the directive leaves room for abuse. does the commission have data or have member states provided data to support these concerns? the eu needs a common immigration policy. yes, but it's about the most basic rights, that's what it's about, too, like the right to a private and family life and the right to marry and have a family. the same applies to refugees, who are now being questioned by the green paper as to whether they should be included. is the commission aware of the practice in the netherlands of family reunification of refugees who have acquired status, where the criterion of actual family situation is used? is the commission aware that establishing such a de facto family relationship requires not only that there is, for example, a biological link, but also that interviews are conducted, including with very young children, and that mothers are told on the basis of so-called wrong answers that they have no relationship with their own child? what is the commission going to do about this? the netherlands is fighting for basic rights and wants to return to agreements made. are we letting member states get away with going back to international conventions on fundamental rights? i want to hear no. i want to hear from the commission that they are going to ensure that we respect and uphold rights in europe and not agree to these hardline proposals.
i have a specific question to put to the commission. maybe it's a little early. but given the reactions that are likely to flow in to this green paper and given the tone of this debate, does the commission think it is likely that it will come forward with proposals to change the directive soon, or is the current trend that the commission thinks we should leave it at that? is it possible to give an indication of that?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0414/97-97/0161 (cns)) that's a good thing. it can be a stimulus for trade, economic growth, poverty reduction and social, commercial and economic integration between the southern mediterranean countries. the commission has identified this dossier as a priority in the framework for responding to the so-called arab spring. with the current developments, it does not seem that democracy is a natural consequence of these uprisings. so let us not be naive in our trade policy. i am pleased to note that the european parliament has been able to express its views on the matter. 10 of the 19 recitals and 8 of the 20 paragraphs are devoted to the alleged failure to function of the mechanism implementing protocol 4 to the eu-israel association agreement. this seems to me not only disproportionate but also contrary to the statements made by dg taxud last year that this agreement is being implemented satisfactorily.
- a writer. - mr president, i would like to join all colleagues in urging the belarusian regime to abstain from the death penalty for the two young men kovalev and konovalov. belarus is the last country in europe to still use the death penalty, having done so 400 times since the 1990s. and that's not the only stain on the land. every week i get the names of concerned ngos and belarusian citizens who have been arrested and detained for alleged opposition activities. the number of people who are going to prison is only going to increase and that joins all those protesters from december 2010 who are still in prison. cogito ergo sum. what is it? i think, therefore i exist. that is a judgment we are sticking to. if you can't think of a regime, you can't exist. let us all stand up for the right of people, including in belarus, to exist and to think.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty. the most popular diversionary manoeuvre of its own failure for the indigenous rulers. in modern egypt, this conspiracy theory is making a spectacular comeback. spying and agitating are now considered domestic and foreign ngos. let me give you two recent examples. for example, the egyptian minister for international cooperation, faiza aboul naga, has made it clear that the united states and israel are doing everything possible to undo the 'people's revolution' at the moment. it is very remarkable that it is not the minister for international cooperation who is speaking here, but the "manager of the international conspiracy". an equally sad example of the official witch-hunt against ngos is the mobilization of the media. see the action of the government newspaper al-ahram, which published the complete list of conspirators indicted in court. in addition, the magazine literally flooded its web page with angry readers' reactions. these anti-western tirades even surpassed those of the mubarak era. the conspirators are called dogs, traitors, deserving nothing less than public executions. the european institutions must take a clear stand against this deceptive and corrupt conspiracy theory. this arab continuity is increasingly threatening to turn the hopeful arab spring into less pleasant political seasons, autumn and winter. at the expense of the future prospects of, in this case, the entire egyptian society. it is not for nothing that the european parliament, in paragraph 1 of the joint resolution, assures the egyptian people of its support for the respect of basic fundamental rights. let me add something to that. i have made several attempts this week to contact cairo and outside cairo, especially the christian minority in egypt, and i have been able to do so. it is not only this minority, but also the baha'i community, for example, that is very concerned about the political developments. what exactly is the muslim brotherhood going to do? what's the space? if there is room within the church community, that is a minimum, but what about society as a whole? if we look at what is happening right now under the smoke of alexandria, namely that the entire christian community of a village is being forced to leave that village because of a sham trial, again between a man and a woman, then i can imagine that fear enormously. i hope that the european institutions, the council, the commission and the european parliament will respect and defend the fundamental rights of all egyptians, including those of the christian minority in particular.
- a writer. - president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: the extreme salafists have now become the second largest party in the country and are taking a dominant pivotal position. respect for the law has not grown. we all saw that at port said. dozens of spectators were killed at that football game and the police stood by and watched. the arab spring was short-lived and has turned into a winter. there are so many places where violence is rampant and justice is lost: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i call on the egyptian authorities and the egyptian parliament to use the support of europe. allow observers in the upcoming presidential elections. allow aid agencies to work on agricultural projects. my appeal to mrs ashton is: the european union is committed to the protection of human rights and the right to freedom of religion. europe is offering many hundreds of millions of aid. we should not be afraid to use that as leverage.
author. − mr president, it is clear where the liberal group of the european parliament stands – with the egyptian people, their rights, freedoms and opportunities. this has been our group’s position for decades. we supported human rights when mubarak was repressing speech, women, association and political parties and when he imprisoned politicians. we will continue to do so as long as is necessary, to stand by the people of egypt. despite the brave struggle for freedom that so many egyptians undertook, and despite the toppling of the mubarak regime, the promise of a true transition is hampered by the way in which the supreme council of the armed forces is copying the oppressive tactics mubarak used. it is time for civilian rule. the latest crackdown on internationally-respected ngos is one of many worrying examples. repressing organisations working on human rights and fundamental freedoms in the name of nationalism is misplaced and dangerous. we support the egyptian organisations that have spoken out against this move and call on the scaf immediately to drop charges against international ngos and their staff. it is an increasingly-connected world, and egypt cannot close itself off from the international community. it should not want this if it wants to see trade and the economy blooming, which is essential for the well-being of the egyptian people. europe would like to develop a genuine partnership with the new egypt. we are willing to open up our markets, to take away trade barriers and to assist in the development of egypt’s economy. however, the clear condition is genuine reforms in the field of human rights – and let me highlight especially women’s rights, democracy and respect for minorities.
rapporteur. − madam president, my report, which is an own-initiative report, addresses a number of issues, some of which are controversial, sometimes surprisingly controversial. i will start with the first one: the one on quotas or binding targets for more women on the executive boards of listed companies. i would like to start with a quote by an american feminist who said, decades ago already: true equality will only have been achieved if we have as many incompetent women in positions of power as incompetent men. i do not think i need to say much more about quotas, but i do not think there is anybody who is really in favour of quotas. the trouble is that, so far, voluntary measures have achieved next to nothing, and we need to do something because doing nothing is not an option. if we see the report last week from the commission demonstrating that only 13 % of board members are female and only 3 % are actually leading listed companies, that is pathetic. the commission promised us concrete measures last year and last week the report, as i said, exposed the complete lack of progress. i have to say to the commissioner that i am slightly disappointed at the follow-up. you propose another consultation, commissioner, whereas after decades of stagnation and after a year of trying with voluntary measures, i would say that the time to act is here; it is no longer a time for words. another issue that to my surprise turned out to be slightly controversial and something that i would like to put on the political agenda is that of single-person households, not to be confused with single-parent households – single-person households. thirty per cent of all households, europe-wide, are single-person households. only one person – not with children, just one person – and they are in relative terms and in absolute terms placed at a disadvantage; a huge disadvantage, compared to others when it comes to taxation, social security, housing, pensions, insurance and what have you. the european union does have all sorts of policies in support of families, which is fine; i support that. but demographic developments show that the composition of households is changing and it is time that the commission recognised the new demographic reality and ensured fair and equal treatment for people living alone. no one should be either rewarded or penalised for the size or composition of their household. i am also very happy that parliament wholeheartedly endorsed the paragraph calling, or rather reiterating, its call, for a road map on lgbt rights. commissioner, this is a very strong political appeal by this house – a repeated appeal – to the commission to come forward with proposals for a road map analogous to the gender equality road map. if we can do it for women, and the european union has achieved a lot for women and gender equality, we can do it for lgbt people. finally, i am also surprised and a little bit dismayed at amendments against the unblocking of the horizontal anti-discrimination directive and the calls to give fresh impetus to the talks on maternity and paternity leave. i mean, if you do not want quotas, if you do not want to address the gender pay gap, if you do not want to unblock the horizontal anti-discrimination directive, if you do not want to talk about maternity and paternity leave, then what do people actually want to do for gender equality? because it is not going to happen spontaneously, colleagues; it is not going to happen. we have been waiting for decades; now is the time to act.
blue-card question. − i am pretty shocked by what i hear. not only do you say that you are opposed to same-sex families, but you actually deny their very existence. i think that is very offensive to all those same-sex families with legal status in many member states. there are five member states where gay couples can get married – legally married like anybody else because they love each other and they are committed to each other – and in other member states they can sign up to a registered partnership. you are simply denying reality. what do you have to say about that?
blue-card question. – madam president, just a brief question for mr nuttall. i understand that he considers that those people in the top jobs right now are there purely on the basis of merit. as we have observed, 97% of them are white men. so, mr nuttall, you say they are the best people for the job. would you say that the people in top jobs, 97% of whom are white men, have done a great job with our economy lately?
rapporteur. − madam president, i thank the commissioner for her strong words. i think you can count on the majority of this house to support any measures you take. first of all briefly on quotas: i think there are a couple of misunderstandings here. quotas, as many people have said, are indeed a necessary evil. this is not an instrument to push incompetent women into top jobs. this is an instrument to break the glass ceiling, which is not a visible brick wall but consists of very subtle, invisible, sometimes even subconscious mechanisms that favour men over women. that is what we need to tackle. secondly, i heard the word ‘subsidiarity’ a number of times in the debate, when we talked about lgbt families in particular. frankly, i think that the subsidiarity principle is invoked rather selectively. we very often discuss matters here which are outside our competence but i would say that free movement is one of the four pillars of a europe without borders. that is definitely the competence of the commission, as are equality policies. so why is addressing the recognition of lgbt families not an eu competence, when we have an eu alliance for families which is funded or co-funded by the commission? why does that only apply to one single model of families? why not to all families in the whole of the european union, even in those countries where the families exist but the people are not recognised? in my country for example, same-sex couples can legally marry. it is a law and i find it very annoying that a law in my country is not recognised in another country. this is not about imposing gay marriage on all member states. it is simply about mutual recognition. we recognise the ingredients of cheese and beer across the european union. why do we not recognise love and family, the most important things in our lives?
the turning point seems to have been reached. the markets are calming down and confidence in the eurozone seems to be recovering, as president van rompuy rightly said here. we are therefore going to meet an important basic condition for getting back on the road to economic growth and also for creating a confidence-building investment climate. let's face it, corporations have a lot of money in the bank. private investors are afraid to invest, and if confidence is restored, that money can be reinvested to fuel further economic growth. but everything will depend on whether we actually add butter to the fish. president van rompuy spoke about the growth strategy we need. but we have a europe 2020 strategy. but we must do it too. and the only way to do that is to put our hand in our own bosom. it does not help if the commission points to the council, the council to parliament and parliament to the member states. i think the excellent letter from the 12 heads of government, which points to the european commission and to what the european commission should do, is an excellent example of this. but if those government leaders make an effort of their own to combat tax evasion, to implement the europe 2020 strategy in their own budget. that means saving education by cutting back. but it does, for example, promote efficiency in public services. do what we promised and we'll get out of this crisis.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. that is the amount these countries have received from the globalisation fund in recent years. and how sad that it is precisely these countries, countries that are doing relatively well, that are restricting access to the globalisation fund. when the crisis hit, the globalisation fund was extended to include large companies and industries that had gone bankrupt due to the crisis, resulting in thousands of redundancies. and if only it were true that this would no longer be necessary, that the crisis was already behind us and that there would no longer be mass redundancies due to crisis bankruptcies. but the opposite is true. the crisis is becoming more and more acute in all countries in these times of austerity. the crisis is the reason for the mass layoffs. i think it is cruel and morally unacceptable that countries like the netherlands, germany and sweden block the crisis derogation. and also incomprehensible. because these countries are against it because they are against the fund in general. the egf should not exist, and so we are against everything, but we are of course making good use of it in the meantime. because, as mrs harkin said, the netherlands has just barely managed to raise 8 million euros in 2011. the mature reasoning should of course be that as long as this fund exists it should be used as usefully as possible. the crisis is a very useful investment.
rapporteur. − madam president, can you please check the vote on the first part before we move to the second part. let us take a check on the first part and then vote on the second part.
rapporteur. − madam president, sorry, maybe i am confused but, now we have taken a check on the first part, can we vote on the second part because i made an intervention during the vote?
rapporteur. − madam president, i called for a check during the vote on the second part; i think many people were not aware that we were voting. can we please first take the vote on the second part, and then move to 26?
madam president, i propose adding at the end of this paragraph a sentence relating to the independence or strengthening the independence of eurostat. i propose we add: ‘calls, therefore, on the commission and the member states to take the necessary steps for strengthening the independence of eurostat, including by changes to its institutional status’.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a binding quota for women in management positions. in this way, brussels is trying to impose a quota on women in the member states through european legislation. as far as the pvv is concerned, dutch companies are responsible for their own personnel policy and the eu has nothing to do with it. dutch men and women are waiting for this quota. the women's quota is another typical example of the senseless european meddling.
"blue card" question. what is it? i am very much in agreement with you, mr verhofstadt. but the fact is that the vvd is part of your group and part of the coalition government which does not renounce this reprehensible initiative. did you ask the vvd to put pressure on rutte and if so, what was the response? i think it is too ridiculous for words to say that it is reprehensible and that the netherlands, the vvd, are silent.
for the greens/efa group a polish colleague, a member of the european parliament, recently said that more dutch people should see the film 'the lives of others'. because then they would understand how unspeakably hurtful it is for people who have lived behind the iron curtain, that there is a bulletin board that calls on citizens to click on other citizens. this hotspot stigmatises, stereotypes and encourages discrimination against workers from central and eastern europe. the anger over the checkpoint doesn't come out of nowhere. the dutch government's policy has filled a steady bucket of angry blood. the exclusion of romanian and bulgarian workers, the blocking of schengen, the curtailment of social rights of eu citizens. and this tipping point is the last straw. the debate is not about the pvv or geert wilders, however much he might like to. his reprehensible initiative is the trigger and nothing more. this debate is about prime minister rutte's position. a prime minister who is shirking his responsibilities. it is his responsibility to condemn this hotline in the strongest possible terms, because it stigmatises eu citizens, and he is abandoning them. it is rutte's responsibility to protect the citizens of his country from discrimination and to tackle the sources of it, and he is failing to do so. it is rutte's responsibility to uphold the fundamental european right of free movement, and he is abandoning it. prime minister rutte has put himself on the spot by saying over and over again that he will not condemn the checkpoint. and he seems to think it would be a defeat to go back on his feet and do it anyway. we shall be voting with an overwhelming majority on thursday to adopt a resolution in which we make it clear that not condemning it is a much greater defeat for him, for the reputation of the netherlands and indeed for all europeans. if rutte is to be a prime minister who wants to talk to the big boys and the big girls of europe, he must face and deal with the consequences of this checkpoint and his government's policies like a real man. if he does not, he does fit in nicely with the illustrious line that is now forming: i have to say that i am very pleased with the results. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. the question was put to me, i will answer it. mr van hecke has described very well how painful it must be for people from central and eastern europe to have such a point of reference. it was horrible under communism and it is still horrible for these people that there is another tipping point that reminds us of this. and of course, it's not exactly the same, but the feelings are. and we as politicians must also take into account the feelings we evoke. and indeed, as mr verhofstadt has said: if there's a criminal action to be reported, you report it to the police. and you do that about a dutchman as well as about an eastern or central european.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. this makes the pvv one man, geert wilders. wilders is the pvv. in the french and english-speaking world, they understood this immediately and sharply. so it is rightly said there: p double v. pw, that's right, the wilders party. the great leader wilders saw the light one day and spoke the impressive words: the netherlands is not doing well, it must be different! he was the only member of the new p double v party, wilders' party. the party is mine! wilders' party has only one member and only one characteristic: it's got to be different. so, about every quarter, something or someone gets taken down head-on: moroccans, turks, greeks, queen beatrix, ritual slaughter, the euro. this is the world. well, who among us has not had a great leader like wilders on his flip side? today it is the poles and the eastern europeans. tomorrow it's you or me! that is the whole point, madam president, nothing more and nothing less. the great leader wilders thinks that things should be different and shakes off his frustration time and time again. i think it is too much of an honour for the p double v to be debating that in this house. especially when we know that a debate here costs tens of thousands of euros an hour. we could have spent that money better. i quote with approval p double v donor hartong: this is a joke. mr president, today's debate would not have been necessary if prime minister rutte had immediately and unequivocally distanced himself from that website. the prime minister should have rejected the website immediately, because it incites aggression and stigmatizes a large group of people. such a condemnation was all the more necessary because rutte is relying on the wilders party as a tolerant partner of his cabinet. the prime minister should also have praised in one breath the daily contributions of many poles and eastern europeans to the dutch economy. and i say that on behalf of my group in general, but in particular on behalf of the poles, the czechs, the latvians, the lithuanians and the hungarians in my group. if rutte had spoken that condemnation immediately, we would have had a better use of our valuable time here today.
eight years ago, 12 countries joined the european union. everyone knew then that these countries were not ready for this, but they did not want a stable eu, but first and foremost a large eu. the conditions for accession were simply relaxed. the result is that 300 000 people from central and eastern europe have already moved to the netherlands. the reality is that the size of this group causes major problems in the areas of housing, the labour market, training and social security. unfortunately, there has also been a sharp increase in crime and nuisance. yes, mr. chairman, this is reality. this is evident from the central and eastern europeans reporting point of the party for freedom, which has received over one hundred thousand reports so far. president, it is the brussels elite who are partly responsible for the transfer of crime and nuisance to the netherlands thanks to the open-border policy. freedom of movement for persons, but also freedom from crime and nuisance. the dutch are sick and tired of it. and they're not alone. france has the same problem and now president sarkozy is even threatening to suspend france's membership of the schengen area. and in the meantime, mr president, we are having a debate in the house. not about the problems, as the citizens would expect. no, about the pvv's point of contact that wants to map these problems. it's the world upside down. this parliament sweeping the problems under the carpet, this parliament - including the president - does not want to know these facts. we listen to our citizens. you're running away from trouble? we didn't! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are like children who are arguing and then burst into tears when the presents are gone. they can now drop their mask of moral superiority, because the citizens are getting it. mr president, it is time to abolish this parliament. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, of course we are aware of the figures. i would also point out that although in this case there is a contribution from polish workers to the dutch economy, the negative contribution from the enormous emigration, the gain drain from poland to the netherlands, is many times greater in poland, a gap which must then be filled by european subsidies. but what i am talking about, and what is much more important, is that the dutch are dealing with nuisance, as i said. in the fields of housing, the labour market, education and social security. and this finding does not diminish that. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, may i ask you a question? the honourable member is aware of poland's growth rates and would it not be good if the netherlands were to achieve them too? and do you know people in your area who can say they've never had a polish worker do services? can you turn that up? and is it not true that the netherlands has gotten its prosperity by being an open country? and is it not true, mr president, that polish workers make a great contribution to our open economy and that those polish workers pay taxes, pay social security and therefore build up rights under the law, and that they are not entitled to the assistance. you know that, too. you should know that.
"blue card" is the answer. the fact that there would be no right to benefits for central and eastern europeans is blatant nonsense. in total, more than 12 000 of these people are currently receiving benefits in the netherlands, a tenfold increase over a few years ago. why did the netherlands get rich, was your question? the netherlands has become rich thanks to working dutch people, dutch people who have put their country on the map. it is precisely these dutch people who are failing you now by talking only about the effect of a migrant worker as an individual, but not mentioning the problems i am raising here and which the councillors in the big cities also see, namely in the areas of housing, the labour market, education and social security. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" question. what is it? i have two questions for mr zijlstra. the first question is: for the last 18 months, you've been an informal part of the government. so all that hassle you're talking about and all the other problems the pvv wants to tackle, i'm wondering: what has the pvv actually done in the last year and a half? the second question is: have you ever delved into the history of europe? because then you might see that in the pre-open borders era europeans were causing substantially more harm to each other in the form of war, dictatorship and violence than in the peaceful, prosperous european union we have today, with occasional practical problems that need to be addressed.
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, the pvv has opposed the way in which all these countries have been admitted to the eu since its foundation. in 2004, all these countries joined, when they were simply not ready. and yes, i have studied european history. and you may be looking at the situation 30 or 40 years ago, but europe has always been falling, every emerging empire has been falling again and again, precisely because of internal contradictions caused by mass immigration from outside. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, the pvv is a party that does not tolerate violence in public spaces in any way. we reject all forms of violence. this website does not in any way incite violence against anyone. it's an inventory of what lives among the civilians. something that in a real democracy would be appreciated by real politicians, and not condemned and even threatened with censorship, as by the people here, who think they represent a democracy.
mr president, today we are discussing the 2013 budget report by the christian democrat la via. it is about solidarity and even more power to brussels. a quote from the report: 'parliament considers that the solidarity and austerity measures taken at national level must not lead to a corresponding reduction at eu level.' you heard right! while citizens in the member states are doing their utmost to save, brussels says: well, party on, because we're not cutting corners. we, the euro-elite, will never give a penny. you know, it is our children who will be the victims of this horrible policy of the socialists and christian democrats. the day will come, mr president, when the netherlands, as a member state, will not only reject the budget for the past year, but also that for the new year to come. the pvv is already doing it. i'll close with a warning from woodrow wilson: "when government does not know what it is supposed to do, it ends up with trying to do everything. liberty has never come from governments. the history of liberty is a history of limitations of government power, not the increase of it".
thank you for putting this important subject on the agenda today. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as you know, about a quarter of people with diabetes do not know they have diabetes. in the netherlands, about one million people out of 16 million have diabetes, and a quarter of them don't know it yet. so, as you say, it is very, very important to work on prevention, on the many things that people can do at home. to do that, we need a lot of innovation and high-tech breakthroughs. after all, it's already possible to track your diabetes with your smartphone, to keep track of what medication you need. and maybe in the future, it will also allow you to get better remote care and better home testing for diabetes. so there are opportunities for an innovative and high-tech approach and that is precisely what needs to be included in the active and healthy ageing strategy, in the digital agenda. it is also important that efforts be made to facilitate access to another country for these products, because at the moment there is hardly any real free movement of medical innovations. the care can be smarter, more efficient and cheaper, and there also needs to be more real support for people who don't know they have diabetes yet.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we welcome the conclusion to these trade wars over beef and think it should be a moment for reflection. with the rise and growth of the economic power of the bric countries, the us and the eu share a huge interest in ensuring that the wto rules are respected. long-lasting conflicts such as this one, which has lasted for almost 15 years, do huge damage to effective multilateralism. this report should be used as a stepping stone for broader eu-us trade relations. we ask our american counterparts to respond in good faith and remove the bse ban on eu beef. in both the eu and the us we can benefit from keeping the global perspective in mind. doing so should push us closer to breaking down trade barriers and moving towards a more integrated trans-atlantic market space to drive jobs and growth and to launch the free trade negotiations at the next eu-us summit. our cooperation should be based on mutual trust, reciprocity and complementarity. in line with this sense of urgency, i believe we should all – parliament, the commission and the external action service – work to encourage the us to stop any disproportionate protectionist measures. the remarks by president sarkozy, who wants to match the ‘buy american’ clauses with ‘buy european’ measures, shows what kind of downward spiral this can lead to, and it would be undesirable. our perspective should not be focused inward; we should be on the ball and aware of global competition: the competition for trade, talent and, eventually, values. so we should work together with an open mind.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i keep thinking how wonderful it would be if we could hold a debate about the country without the name being such an issue. if we could just concentrate on the progress and on the hard work that still lies ahead, there is enough to do as regards more fundamental rights: stopping corruption and reforming the economy and the labour market. bizarrely, reaching a solution should not be too hard. greece has made an offer for a composite name with a geographical denomination, and macedonia has always stated that what it finds most important is that its identity, culture, nationality and language are not questioned. we would like to give the process a small but significant push by applauding the offer, so we have put in an amendment. i hope that other groups will vote in favour of this and – who knows? – maybe next year we will be back here and freely speak about ‘north macedonia’ in which macedonian people with macedonian identities and macedonian culture happily speak macedonian. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i think that discrimination against whatever national group or other minority or even against women should be firmly combated. some groups should be singled out by mentioning them – the lgbt community is one of them. i have no problem with a mention of bulgarians but i would find it important to have a nuanced vision on this because there is a bit of going back and forth between bulgaria and macedonia in stigmatisation and stereotyping. but, if there is discrimination, it should be combated.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as all other speakers have said, iceland is a modern country with a very democratic tradition. it can be an asset to the european union. if we look today, indeed, the people of iceland and its government have pulled themselves out of the economic crisis without looking back in anger but looking forward, as the people in ireland have also done, and this is a big achievement. of course there are matters still to be considered. one important thing in this case is that in iceland the grip of the state on the economy is too great, so they should open their economy to foreign investments, foreign ownership, and indeed competition. this is an important point. the other thing concerns icesave. i am from the netherlands. concerning the united kingdom and the netherlands you can see that the obligations under icesave have been taken seriously by the icelandic government and that the icelanders are paying back money, so i am confident that they will fulfil all their obligations. of course we need to monitor, but the prospects are good. in other words, apart from sustainable fisheries – and i think we have to have a deal on this, a commitment – we can look to future icelandic eu membership soon and indeed, together with the authorities and the population of iceland, we have to convince the population that the route to europe is the best one for such an old and democratic country in such a modern environment.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, there is progress in bosnia and herzegovina with the new government, the state aid law and the census law. however, bosnia and herzegovina still needs to find a durable solution for refugees and implement annex vii of the dayton peace agreement. the main and last step necessary to comply with the conditions of the saa (stabilisation and association agreement) is implementing the sejdić-finci ruling. the parliamentary committee working on this failed to come up with concrete results – that is regrettable. if you are already late for the train, small steps to catch that train will not help, especially if that train is already moving. we want bosnia and herzegovina to jump in, but quick and well considered reforms are needed. if bosnia and herzegovina wants to apply for candidate status in june, the leaders need to deliver to us and most of all to their own citizens. the desire of the bosnia and herzegovinian people to join the eu crosses all national, ethnic and religious lines and the young people need perspective, and an eu one. a better coordination mechanism and the country speaking with one voice to the eu are necessary, so is political will and leaders to talk about what binds rather than what divides the country. divisive nationalism and extremism can divide a country, especially in a fragile region with a fresh war history such as the western balkans. all forms of extremism must be condemned and addressed in the region as a whole. bosnia and herzegovina is a country with many faces, but it is definitely not one of wahhabites. therefore, the only reference in the report to wahhabites is far from reflecting the reality and this reference should disappear. for reconciliation, justice is necessary. the obstruction of justice and the denial of history and of genocide is taking the country backwards not forward. people should also be free to choose whether they want to see a movie or not. banning the movie of angelina jolie is a wrong message for freedom of thought and expression, crucial in any democracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, religious extremism, like all extremism, is deplorable. a group that refuses to allow women in political posts, wants to base legislation and justice on a religious book and discriminates against other religions, and whose followers put their children in medical danger, should have no place in political institutions. i am of course speaking of the netherlands here, where the party of mr belder does all these things out of christian religious extremism. aside from the luckily very limited group of voters for his party, most other christians in the netherlands are very, very moderate. in the same vein, almost all muslims in bih are very, very moderate, and in the same vein it would be as disproportionate to adopt a resolution here that warns of the threat of wahhabism in bih as it would be to adopt a resolution on christian extremism in the netherlands. we will of course adopt a text on the netherlands tomorrow, but without mention of this. there is undoubtedly extremism in bih, as there is in the rest of the balkans. let us warn of all extremisms that are intolerant and discriminatory. i for one have up to now been attacked by nationalist, orthodox and catholic extremists at the diverse gay prides i have been at, not yet by wahhabis up to now. i hope you will support us in taking out the specific mention of wahhabism in the report and let us worry about extremism in general. otherwise it is a brilliant report and if this is taken out we will happily vote in favour.
the european parliament, according to paragraph 27 of the resolution, is concerned about wahhabi extremism in the western balkans. and this statement gives me the immediate reason to ask commissioner füle a couple of questions. does the commission share this concern about the wahhabi manifestations in bosnia-herzegovina and, if so, what is the commission doing to combat wahhabi extremism in bosnia-herzegovina? paragraph 27 also praises the grand mufti of bosnia for his stand against terrorism and violence. by contrast, prominent bosnian artists and human rights defenders such as refik hodzic and fedja stukan claim that grand mufti cerić is personally responsible for fomenting ethnic distrust and outright hate speech, including threats against "godless people". i would like to hear from the commissioner what exactly brussels thinks of the social role, or contribution, of the grand mufti.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report. however, i support the agreement on biodiversity from the un meeting held in nagoya in october 2010, which stated that all subsidies that threaten fish stocks should be abolished. the economic crisis in europe was created by the dysfunctionality of the euro and by financial speculation. it is important that those neoliberal policies are changed. i can support short-term proposals to ensure that austerity policies are eased in countries that are very badly affected, but only when this does not contribute to overfishing or negative environmental impacts.
parliament was right to criticise the way the elections to the duma were conducted. what really struck me is that the lessons of the presidential election were not learned. yes, on election day everything may have gone a little more normally, but the counting on the day after, and also the nominations, the role of the media, in the run-up to the elections, really could not. i think that russia, which is also a member of the council of europe, cannot afford to do that, because the rules of the game must also be followed there. mr president, there are hopeful signs too. i have never seen such a peaceful opposition, such a peaceful civil society, take to the streets, demonstrate and show that they are not interested in what is happening in the kremlin. what we have to do today is to make sure that we start uniting those people, those people, those peaceful protesters, together with the people in the kremlin or in the duma who are also willing to reform; we need to bring them together. that is the text of our resolution. and we must all agree with mr swoboda's proposals. as for the rest of the case: in a few months' time mr swoboda will come with a new text, which we can then refine even further.
for the epp group the government of kazakhstan is keen to deepen relations with the european union. the letter from the foreign minister to the high representative earlier this week provides proof of this. and incidentally, the kazakh authorities flagrantly violated the fundamental right to freedom of religion. under the guise of a new, enforced religion law, enacted in the fall of 2011, they boast of the forced dissolution of as many as 570 so-called religious organizations. it's just something to brag about. the christian congregations are under police and secret service surveillance, and they are also dealing with government-established anti-sect centers, which are supposed to mobilize public opinion in an anti-religious sense. searching the homes of defenseless christian citizens, seizing their property, all without any legal credentials. this is the black and white of the compulsory re-registration of religious communities. chicanes against house churches, including huge fines for their pastors, complete the horror of religious persecution in kazakhstan. that is the reality, council and commission. it will be clear to you that this is not the time to be forging ties with kazakhstan.
the events of 16 december in kazakhstan have shocked many people, including me. my thoughts are first and foremost with the families and friends of the victims. there is no excuse for a government to let a strike or a demonstration end in such a massacre. what exactly happened that day is not clear, but it is important that we hear the full truth. when the president of kazakhstan said that he would launch a full investigation involving international experts, i thought: there is hope. but i regret to say that there was no such foreign contribution. i therefore repeat the call for an international, independent inquiry which parliament made in february. moreover, mr president, there is a general negative trend in the field of human rights in kazakhstan. the colleagues have already said something about that. it is of the utmost importance to us europeans that kazakhstan develops into a stable democracy, a prosperous partner in central asia. i therefore believe it is essential that we focus on democracy, human rights and an independent and impartial judiciary when negotiating a new partnership and cooperation agreement. that is particularly good for kazakhstan, but also for us.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last year i was an election observer in nigeria. the hope and anticipation among nigerians was remarkable. they welcomed observers; anything that could ensure their vote would count and be counted transparently. on the night before the first round, an explosion close to abuja killed 25 people preparing for the elections – most of them youngsters, serving their year in the national youth service corps, sons and daughters of nigeria. violent extremism kills indiscriminately and, combined with poverty, corruption and related problems, it does not take much imagination to picture how the extremists would achieve their goal to destabilise the country, to pit people of different religions against each other and to recruit those without perspective. nigeria is home to one fifth of africans. it is a leading nation in west africa, for better or worse. half of the population – 75 million people – are under 18 years of age. they will demand the opportunities they deserve. many of the youngsters know more about the world than their parents did, through media and new media, including the fact that not everyone is poor and that it is not necessary to be poor in such a rich country. the young generation filmed the vote count of the elections on their cell phones and they will hold the authorities accountable. i would not be surprised at a nigerian spring one day. we must invest in this young generation and do what we can to give them education and opportunities. an important prevention for being recruited by extremist networks is such independence economically. nigeria is rich – i emphasise it again – in resources and in human capital. the eu stands ready to help to ensure more equal benefit from wealth and more equal distribution and good governance and to prevent and end the terrorism in a sustainable way.
for the greens/efa group, by mr nigera: it's home to over 150 million people and is africa's largest oil producer. if nigeria is not doing well, the whole region will be destabilized. and nigeria is not doing so well. while the country can make good money from oil, more than half of the population lives in poverty. large-scale corruption is at the root of this. the oil dollars are disappearing into the pockets of the happy few. the gap between rich and poor is widening, and nigeria is one of the many countries in africa where resource wealth should be a victory, but instead becomes a curse. poverty makes people susceptible to extreme ideas. religious groups are stepping into the hole that the government is falling through. your poverty is due to the other, the other adhering to the wrong religion. or some variation of that: your poverty is due to the fact that you are not strict enough in your teachings. be stern with us in the teachings. people of different ethnic groups in nigeria are fighting each other to the death in the name of a god. and we're allowed to name it. but then we have to look at the real causes of poverty and see if there is anything that can be done about it. one of them is corruption. europe can at least do something in the short term to combat that corruption there by implementing our directive on transparency in the oil and mining sector. because if we make public what european companies are paying the nigerian government, then the nigerian government will know, and the money won't go into very deep, dark pockets. it is therefore disappointing to me to see that shell, the largest dutch oil company and a very important player in the niger delta, is working with the dutch government to try to undermine the transparency directive. i would ask my colleagues and the european commission not to allow this to happen.
the number of attacks by the radical islamic group boko haram has increased dramatically in recent times. hundreds of people have been killed. religion is being used by boko haram to destabilize nigeria. socioeconomic inequality, poverty, high unemployment, corruption and especially the hopelessness of young people, are fertile ground for extremism. i think - and my colleagues have said this - that we as the european union must not only strongly condemn the violence but also do everything we can to support nigeria. the most important thing is that we as an international community also expose the underlying causes that make it impossible for people in a rich country like nigeria to become truly rich. that means that we must also do everything we can to encourage cooperation in the region. we as the eu must contribute to that process. i understand that the dutch foreign minister last week asked for boko haram to be added to the list of terrorist organisations. i wonder if that has happened, and if not, when.
the islamic terrorist group boko haram is in control of northern nigeria. a distressing situation, in which christians would rather protect their churches and faith communities themselves than rely on the police or the army - this is what i heard from a local observer this morning. the unbridled violence of boko haram and its muslim followers is creating a huge tension within the large christian minority in northern nigeria. the older generation wants to dissuade the younger generation from taking revenge on their muslim compatriots, who are also victims of boko haram, on biblical grounds, and instead to show a spirit of reconciliation. a spiritual struggle that deserves strong, impartial government support. i am therefore touching on a key problem which is also mentioned in the resolution. how far has boko haram infiltrated nigerian government institutions? i have two questions to put to the high representative or her deputy on this. i am now giving them to the commissioner and i hope to present them to mrs ashton next week when she attends the foreign affairs committee meeting. because does mrs ashton or the council have any idea what's going on? to what extent has there been high-level infiltration in nigeria? and my second question is, based on the news reporting: how much is boko haram manifesting itself closer to europe, in large nigerian communities in, say, britain? the commission has already made a number of proposals.
we are all concerned about the reports in nigeria. the attacks in kano on 20 january, which killed more than 150 people, the kidnappings, the failed rescue operations and the tragic events of the past weekend, in which a suicide bombing at a church killed at least three people and led to a retaliatory attack that killed ten. the explosive tensions between the populations show the impotence of the nigerian government. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. nigeria's wealth should bring it enormous prosperity, and the opposite is true. oil seems to bring nothing but problems, like environmental pollution, kidnapping of foreigners, profits flowing to richer countries. and we, the european union and its citizens, can play an important role in the stabilisation of nigeria. if all the profits from oil extraction were not going to the big international companies like shell, then the local population would also benefit from this lucrative source of income. and if these big international companies paid their taxes properly, then the government could become stronger. that is why the transparency directive must be adopted quickly, as my colleague judith sargentini has just said. a fair distribution of wealth is a guarantee of stability. the new union's external policy plans give prominence to principles such as democracy and the rule of law, peace and security. the way in which the european union, and the high representative in particular, will assist nigeria in the current developments will show us what these principles mean in practice.
the problems of piracy have only increased in recent years. what we see is more ships being hijacked, more seamen being taken hostage and the pirates' area of operation has become much larger. also, the price paid in lives and ransoms has increased. hundreds of seafarers are currently being held in camps in somalia, under conditions that you and i would never want to be in. it is therefore high time that a stronger approach was taken to piracy. and i think there are four points. the member states must really use all their resources to free the seamen who have been captured, and i believe that this includes targeted action on the somali coast. the second. the eu member states must all agree to the use of certified and armed security guards on board. now you see that one country does allow armed security guards, and the other country does not. but those pirates know exactly how those ships sail and they follow them exactly, so you know which ships have no security on board. so that's an extra risk, especially for those ships. so it's a security risk, but it's also a competition, it's competition. the third. there is evidence that the pirate leaders are laundering money through banks in africa and in europe. this means that the security services must identify these money flows and ensure that the banks that cooperate with them are dealt with. 4. other somalia is a lawless and lawless country. the commission must develop a plan to improve somalia. as far as i am concerned, commissioner piebalgs, there can be a little more ambition, and i would like to hear your answers.
"blue card" question. what is it? president, mrs gomes' speech is impressive, but changing somalia is not something we are going to achieve overnight, it is a matter of i don't know how many years. the problem is now. there are sailors trapped now. ships are being hijacked and people are being held. so i would like to ask you: how about taking armed security to make sure those ships can sail through safely? we have to solve somalia, but we also have a problem now, what do you think?
this is an important debate, because piracy off the coast of somalia, and indeed in a growing area of the indian ocean, is a very big problem. time is of the essence, because innocent crew members are being subjected to violence, exposed to unacceptable risks. there are 450 to 600 crew members trapped. i would also like to draw attention to the italian soldiers trapped in india. i welcome the cooperation between europe and the deployment of european naval vessels in the atalanta mission, but we must do more, do more to combat piracy effectively. because the pirates are becoming more violent and their arsenal more sophisticated. we must therefore ensure that we gather all the knowledge we have to deal with the pirates on land and dismantle them there. because we have the knowledge to locate those pirates before they actually attack the ships. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. training somali forces on the ground. we are looking at the possibility of targeted action, short-term investigations, whether it is possible to use special forces to deal with these pirates very specifically. also, tracking the money flows, and tracking down and prosecuting all those who are cooperating to smuggle the money away from the pirates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it cannot be that all those innocent crew members are constantly at risk. that's why i'd like to draw your attention to this.
on behalf of the alde group the beauty of road maps is that we can work from a vision, from a vision of the future, and that applies here as well. the starting point was where we should be in 2050, and that's clear. 80 to 95% less greenhouse gases. you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know. that's good for the environment, good for public health, good for our economy. the commissioner has just emphasized this point again. we are also providing the security that the business community so desperately needs. it provides the certainty to be able to invest in the low-carbon economy in a truly responsible way. on the other hand, false promises are perhaps the worst service we can render to business. false promises, with the message that we can take it easy on those co2 targets. but how can we massively embrace the two-degree objective without accepting the corresponding consequences? that's how you create those false promises. mr president, i must be frank and say that i am once again very disappointed in the right half of this house. chris davies had written a very balanced response to the road map, but anything that might hurt even a little bit is left out. let 's face it . there's no path to a low-carbon economy without pain. but we have to go there! after me long, said the french king louis xv, and sometimes i think the echo of those words still rings in strasbourg 350 years later. but there is hope! at the end of his life, he renounced his irresponsible attitude. let that part of history repeat itself.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report, which is a balanced report on the future of our climate agenda and, in particular, on the future of the european economy. that's important, and that's why we're talking about it here. the christian democrats in this chamber say that we may have to slow down a little, but i would point out that we are doing this ultimately because of the climate, and the climate is not negotiable. if we do not act now, we will be hit by climate change and then our economy will be hit really hard. we must now take steps to prepare ourselves and to establish as europe an economy which is prepared for the future and can even play a leading role internationally. that's what this is about. this report will give industry the investment security that everyone always says it wants. it is precisely to the industry that we want to advance! what are we going to listen to: an industry that is stuck in the past or an industry that wants to move forward? we must now choose the industry of the future, that is the point! commissioner hedegaard, we have put forward a wonderful vision for 2050, but now it is a matter of action for now. we must now tackle the emissions trading system, we must now set targets for 2030. we must now focus on energy conservation. the action must be taken now, because the long term may seem far away, but it is an investment that must be made now. you have the majority in the council, 26 countries are involved, and you will soon have a large majority in parliament: it's time to act!
on behalf of the alde group when we talk about water and its great international importance, we often refer to a famous quote from the world bank's director in the 1990s. and that is as follows: if the wars of this century were fought over oil, the wars of the next century will be fought over water. a very ominous prediction indeed. we're gonna be beating each other's brains out about water shortages. but the quote goes on, and often that's forgotten. the sequel is: unless we change our approach to managing this precious and vital resource. because unlike oil, we are talking about a renewable resource that we can use as often as we want. only then we have to deal with it in a very sensible way. this is the subject of the world water forum in marseille, and it is also the subject of the rio+20 conference in june. this week the united nations world water development report was released. that report is also alarming, but it is not defeatist. there are some very critical elements in it, and the depletion of groundwater is a problem that is completely underestimated. in china, in the middle east, in california, and in many other parts of the world. and we must pay very close attention to this, and especially to the role of agriculture in this. but cooperation is of the utmost importance. yesterday the danish presidency concluded an agreement with china to export more technology from europe to china. china is going to invest 500 billion euros in water management over the next decade. and that might be a nice water-oil analogy, too. the water shortage is not only a threat, but also, of course, a very great economic opportunity. let us agree on this at rio+20 and make sure that we really achieve much better management of water internationally.
for the ppe group unfortunately, i hear the words 'monitor', 'monitor' and 'studies' again from the european commission, when what we need now is action, and action on two levels, in relation to the farmers of europe, who are in great uncertainty about their markets, but also in relation to the citizens, who are concerned about the possibility that this animal disease may have consequences for public health. if i look at the 10 countries that have closed their borders to european products, i see that some countries are closing their borders only to live animals, other countries are talking about live animals and animal products and meat. some countries ban products from three member states of the union. some of them five, some of them eight. moreover, all these third countries have different requirements for the lifting of restrictions. what is the european commission doing to remove these restrictions? the european commission always points out that it has exclusive competence in this area. it does not like countries to get on the plane and negotiate bilaterally, but as long as national ministers think they can do it faster alone than jointly with the european commission, they will keep trying. in other words, the european commission, you will have to prove that you are worthy of having that exclusive competence by streamlining what happens, for example by encouraging uniform certificates to those countries. my last point concerns public health. i am glad that the commissioner is saying that it is not zoonosis. the disease probably cannot be transmitted from animals to humans, but we need to communicate about it clearly, and all of us in the same way, and not each country separately.
in writing. - i shall abstain on the vote on the resolution on the pvv hotline for central and eastern europeans. it is not for the european parliament to make a legal judgment on the point of reference, as the resolution seems to want to do. the european parliament must not sit in the judge's chair. i'm having trouble with the checkpoint. it is good that the problems of nuisance are being addressed, but that is up to the police and the judiciary. it is not good to discriminate on the basis of nationality or ethnic background. citizens are equal before the law. it may also be that eastern europeans are the most troublesome. that's one-sided. such an image does not do justice to these fellow citizens of the european union, who often work very hard, under conditions that are less than those of dutch workers. but i do not support the european parliament's resolution because it is not balanced and nuanced either.
in writing. - today i voted against the resolution on discriminatory websites and reactions by governments. although i do reject the pvv's site because of its discriminatory nature, the resolution is one-sided on the whole. the influx of labour migrants from central and eastern europe is indeed a problem this was also shown by the study of the temporary dutch house of representatives committee on 'lessons from recent labour migration'. the resolution does not mention these problems and does not propose solutions to them, whereas it is precisely at european level that cooperation is needed to deal with these problems.
in writing. the vvd rejects the resolution condemning the netherlands for the pvv website. the leader of the vvd delegation, hans van baalen, has said a double "no". no to the stigmatizing and polarizing pvv website. this website is a negative signal to well-meaning workers from central and eastern europe, which is damaging to the netherlands and to relations within the eu. the vvd groups in both the ep and the lower house have therefore directly spoken out against this website. the leaders of the vvd and d66 delegations, together with the chairman of the alde group, also issued a statement on 13 february. problems must be recognized and addressed, but not in this way. there can therefore be no misunderstanding about the composition of the vvd. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism. this is a fundamental difference with the hungarian legislation, which is in breach of the european treaties. that's not the issue here.
author. - refugees from the horn of africa seeking safety often travel via egypt to israel. they must then pass through the sinai desert. that desert is a no man's land that the egyptian government seems to have no control over. the journey through the desert is facilitated by bedouin smugglers who exploit the vulnerability of these refugees. women are raped, people are locked up for months to extort them further, people are killed for their organs or people are killed just because they can. this resolution takes the example of a young eritrean man, solomon. but there are many more solomons and myriams who are or were in the same circumstances in the sinai desert. and i think it is a fact that many female refugees, as soon as they know they are in israel, ask for an abortion. conceived in the desert. egypt is not doing enough to control the sinai and to prosecute the gangs and smugglers. egypt also still has no functioning asylum policy, which raises the suspicion that they would rather lose refugees than be rich, and that their well-being is not in egypt's interest. the european union is trying to help democracy in egypt to move forward after the arab spring. in a democracy, this is not the way to deal with refugees, and europe should make recognition of the geneva conventions a condition. but it is not only egypt that is guilty of abusing refugees. israel is sending people back into the desert. israel is now building the world's largest prison for refugees, and you don't lock up refugees. you've fled sudan, eritrea, somalia, and what's happening to you? you end up in egypt or israel, in a situation that is inhuman. i call on mrs ashton to take this to egypt and israel and to protest strongly.
author. − madam president, the sponsoring of the word economic forum in davos this year by the government of bahrain shows its ambition to belong and to be taken seriously by the international and business communities. bahrain’s authorities can only be credible if they respect its citizens’ human rights, period. in a country that heavily restricts freedom of speech and of the internet and has people fired for expressing their political opinions, business development is impossible. when tens of thousands of peaceful protestors are met with violence and doctors face political trials, investment is unattractive. where tensions between shia and sunnis are growing and citizens face military trials, there is a risk of a proxy conflict involving saudi arabia and iran. eu-based companies in bahrain should take back fired employees, and we should freeze the export of weapons and technology from the eu that is used to repress people. bahrain’s authorities should put themselves on the right side of history and show their unconditional commitment to respecting human rights and make reforms. the release of political prisoners, especially of abdulhadi alkhawaja and mahdi abu deeb, are of particular urgency to this house.
mr president, we welcome the major steps that serbia has taken to gain candidate status, notably the capture of mladić and hadžić and the constructive resumption of the dialogue with kosovo – although serbia still has quite a lot to prove in that regard. the negotiations should start as soon as possible so that serbia can start working even harder on sustainable and profound reform, starting with chapters 23 and 24. we expect serbia to remedy the huge flaws in its review of the judiciary. while its initiative to start carrying out this review is commendable, taking the initiative is really not enough. they do not seem to realise that the execution of the process is at least as important, and the way this has been done now reflects badly on them. we expect serbia to improve the position of ethnic minorities so that they will have a good future in serbia and will not feel they need to ask for asylum in the eu. we expect serbia to combat extremism, xenophobia and homophobia so that this coming october the people of belgrade can walk freely and safely in a gay pride parade. i will be there too. we also expect serbia to continue fighting corruption and organised crime. we expect serbia to do all this not only because it bring accession closer and is popular in the polls (or not), but mainly because it means a brighter future for all serbians.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr wammen and also commissioner füle, for the warm words of support for the resolution. we have such a balanced resolution because we all worked on it together, so my thanks also to all the shadow rapporteurs. we want to convey in this resolution the message of interdependence between the eu and turkey. turkey is a key country for the security and prosperity of the european union. turkey has enormous potential for economic growth and it has a strategic role as a corridor for the european union’s energy supply. complemented by the value of potential synergies between the eu and turkey, the foreign policy and security policy can do a lot for us both. i believe, however, that interdependence can only produce positive results when it is framed in a context of mutual commitment. this requires efforts from both sides. for turkey, this means concrete results in the reform process and also an improvement in bilateral relations with its neighbours. from the eu and its member states, i expect renewed efforts to create the conditions for the opening of chapters. i fully support mr füle’s new positive agenda for eu-turkey relations. it was initiated by him and we support it. we must now increase our cooperation through that, but that also means we must have more coordination in areas like foreign policy and the fight against terrorism. there is much to gain for both of us. this resolution expresses our concern about freedoms: the deterioration of press freedom and freedom of expression in turkey. i have just met mr ahmet şık who was released from prison just this week. he came here to visit us in parliament. in turkey pre-trial detention lasts too long, legislation on terrorism is too wide-sweeping and these sorts of things do not fit in with a country which should have independent and all-over impartial justice. the long pre-detention happening now is, de facto, a punishment. so i ask my colleagues to look into that. turning to bilateral relations: bilateral relations continue to affect deeply the negotiation process. i call on the government to do something, to come up with positive steps. we have not just reported on negative elements in this resolution. we have also highlighted positive developments and i would like to stress once again that we fully support the parliament of turkey in its obligation to draw up a new constitution with checks and balances which are important for a modern and prosperous turkey.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. i would like to stress the urgent appeal made by the turkish-jewish scientist and publicist rifat bali, with whom i am in correspondence. he wrote to me: 'the eu must state very strongly that the passive attitude of the turkish government and judiciary towards anti-semitic expressions in the turkish media is unacceptable. such manifestations must be severely punished". i expect you, commissioner füle, to address prime minister erdogan directly on this abject anti-semitism. the turkish leader denies this ghastly reality with the irrational argument that islam would exclude anti-semitism. on behalf of the protestant community - and that is my second point - i have three other urgent requests to the commission. these action points towards the turkish authorities include: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the turkish authorities do not allow the use of the turkish language in the schools, and that the turkish authorities do not allow the use of the turkish language in the schools.
the president, commissioner füle, who is a fan of islam, and mrs ria oomen-ruijten have completely lost their way. it's going the wrong way with turkey. there are many journalists in prison and cartoonists are being hauled into court. freedom of expression is increasingly restricted under the islamization agenda of the ak party. corruption is on the rise and illegal immigration through turkey is on the rise. the most scandalous thing, mr president, is that the illegal turkish occupation of part of the eu member state of cyprus has been going on for over 35 years now. the turkish minister baris is even threatening to annex northern cyprus and will soon be carrying out illegal gas drilling in cyprus. this is a clear threat of war from turkey to europe. this is unacceptable. every year we see critical reports on turkey, but this parliament does nothing. turkey is even rewarded with over 500 million euros of european tax money. the report by mrs oomen-ruijten is a joke. there is no sanction against turkey. if the turks boycott the eu during the cypriot presidency, turkey will never have to return to the negotiating table as far as we are concerned. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" question. what is it? president. - i do not wish to go into the language of mr madlener, but i do have a question. doesn't the universal declaration of human rights say that you can love anyone regardless of their religion? does your comment mean that you no longer support that statement? because then you're really lost.
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, mr oomen-ruijten knows that the pvv wants to oppose islam in europe. we do not want any more islamization. there is already enough islam in europe, and turkish membership, which you so much want, would lead to millions of turks coming to western europe. that's bad for the netherlands, and i think it's bad for your backers, too.
"blue card" question. what is it? it is nice to ask a blue-card question to a member of the alde group who is very liberal and in favour of unlimited freedom of expression. mr kazak, can you tell me what is the attraction of the accession of the republic of turkey to freedom of expression and freedom of the media in the arab world at this critical moment? the rapporteur is also guilty of gliding loosely over it and thinking that it can. what does the arab world think of turkey as a model? can you give us some concrete indications of the attraction of turkey as a model for the democratization of the arab world, something we have been waiting for in vain so far?
president. - the motion for a resolution (doc. the dutch newspaper ncr-handelsblad quoted a film-goer as saying: "if only all christians had not been killed off in 1453, we would not have been bothered by it now". turkish nationalism is mixing with the shadowy aspects of islam. we can see this in the course of the erdoğan government. he's growing closer to hamas. erdoğan is the great leader of the so-called arab spring, a spring which has now led to the expulsion of the israeli ambassador in egypt. it is no coincidence that many lawsuits have recently been launched against the land ownership of aramean monasteries. erdoğan is firmly in the saddle and is working with his islamist ak party to expand the power base, including through these lawsuits. a dangerous cocktail of turkish nationalism and the dark side of islam. admitting turkey to the eu would be a mistake of historic proportions. good neighborhood is enough.
mr president, today we call for a renewed boost in eu-turkish relations and to open the negotiation chapters on the most essential issues now: the chapters on fundamental freedoms, justice and the rule of law. our emphasis on these key issues prompts the turkish authorities, the government first and foremost, to ensure the rule of law is upheld. while we are open to cooperation in relation to the middle east and on mutual security challenges, we strongly condemn the abuse of anti-terrorism laws. it is, after all, nato’s second largest army, but a significant portion of this army’s leadership now faces the most serious charges of committing terrorist activities or of plotting a coup. it is essential for turkey, its role in nato and its relations with the eu that both process and outcomes of these trials are fairly conducted and that suspects get a due process. the same goes for the high number of journalists imprisoned, as many colleagues have mentioned. the climate of fear and mistrust in institutions in turkey is undermining its potential to be a leader in a changing world and we urge the turkish government to take its responsibilities.
"blue card" question. what is it? president. - i have a very simple question. today our greek cypriot colleagues have made several references to what the turkish cypriots would like, what their wishes are and what they think. can you explain to me why the turkish cypriot colleagues are not represented here in this parliament so that they can tell us that themselves?
mr president, turkey’s importance keeps increasing. turkey’s economy is growing and turkey is becoming a regional and global power. europe and turkey need each other more than ever. but ironically the accession negotiations have entered a stalemate. the commission has no real leverage on important issues, due to the blocked chapters. the positive agenda is important to keep supporting the reforms, but if we want real changes we must support the opening of chapters 23 and 24. the report we will vote on tomorrow is important because it recognises these issues and it gives support to the positive agenda. it supports the reforms but also says that there are still reforms that need to be carried out, especially on freedom of speech and press freedom. we are concerned about the wide margin of appreciation allowed by the anti-terror law; we are concerned about the arrested journalists and those working under the threat of being arrested. but i am also concerned about attacks in europe on turkish press offices and ask for investigations to be carried out in europe to find the perpetrators. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
"blue card" is the answer. it is clear that negotiations are under way; i think it is important in these negotiations to look at what is important for turkey and what is important for the european union. i've underlined that. you're against it, that's your problem; i think it is important that we look at how we can properly conduct further negotiations. that's what my speech is about.
mr president, people are fleeing all over the world. unprecedented atrocities in protracted wars, the growing influence of islam. there's a lot to run from. the freedom party is in favour of taking in these refugees in its own region. both the physical distance and the cultural distance are the smallest. i would also point out that the refugee convention states that refugees must apply for asylum in the first safe country they come to. the uprooting that occurs when someone flees is thus kept to a minimum, and integration - necessary when return is not possible - is facilitated. but now, mr president, we are talking about the resettlement of refugees. a disgraceful plan to bring afghan refugees in turkey and somali refugees in ethiopia to the eu, for example. brussels is even willing to pay for this, and this payment, mr president, is the wrong incentive. not only does it not cover the costs, but the money can be spent much better and much more effectively in the regions where these refugees are received. and that, mr president, is helping more refugees.
mr. chairman, judge o.w. holmes once made this great ruling: "reduce taxes and spending, keep the government poor and preserve your freedom". i thought of that when i read the report by mr vaughan, a socialist, on parliament's budget for 2013. although some small steps are being taken towards cutting costs, it is all too little too late. the budget of parliament is going to increase again, by as much as 2.7%. the pvv, however, wants an absolute reduction in the entire budget. the house of european history, a prestigious project costing tens of millions of euros, must be scrapped as soon as possible. mr president, good governance is not that difficult. cut spending, reduce the size of the european public administration, and preserve freedom. when will parliament do that for our citizens?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have managed to make sure that the food programme did not abruptly stop for the 18 million poorest europeans who depend on it. it is continuing for this year and for next year. we now have no time to lose in giving food banks clarity about the future after that. my worst nightmare scenario is that we continue giving food banks the idea that the programme will go on after 2014, only to discover – much too late – that it will not. if we do not give clarity now, food banks will not take the necessary steps to become independent of eu food aid. i am pretty sure that a majority can be found in this house to continue direct food aid in some form, but i am equally sure that there will be a majority in council to block this and that there are even countries ready to go to court over it. can the commissioner confirm that a deal made in council means that the programme could continue for two years, but on the explicit condition that it will stop after that? can he also tell us whether there is a foolproof way to get around this council blockade or whether the strategy is to propose something in the cohesion policy and then just hope for the best? because if hoping for the best is all the certainty that we can offer food banks, i think we are doing the poorest people in europe a disservice if we do not say very soon that the programme will stop giving direct food aid in 2014 so that they will have at least some time to adapt to the future.
madam president, i would like to take advantage of this meeting to ask you to condemn in the strongest terms the coup d'état in mali and to demand the restoration of constitutional order in that country. i also take this opportunity to welcome the democratic elections which have taken place in senegal and the election of the new president, mr macky sall. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i would like to add as an oral amendment ‘ethnic and religious communities’.
madam president, this has nothing to do with an oral change to the text. it is a normal amendment which should have been introduced during the normal proceedings. i am against.
i voted against the report on the refugee fund because i do not agree with the decision of parliament's legal affairs committee to take article 80 of the lisbon treaty out of the way. i think that the committee should have considered this question as well. the fact that the commission has not done so now creates a situation where the legislature has taken the place of the judiciary. and that's wrong in any democracy.
president, the estimate of the 2013 budget does not show any substantial savings. the only way to reduce this wasteful project is to insist on a single seat in parliament. i therefore vote against this report. the best way of saving, mr president, is of course to close down this mickey mouse parliament. all the member states already have excellent parliaments which have a delegation in the council through their representatives. i predict a saving of a little over two billion euros. in the meantime, it is of course crazy that for huge license fees, people are working with old microsoft software, when this should of course be open source software. open source not only eliminates licensing costs, but also significantly reduces it support.
president, belarus is also known as the soviet museum. mr lukashenko is doing his utmost to keep his collection of soviet heritage in good condition. in view of the regime's flagrant violations of democratic principles and human rights, i agree with this report. however, i would like to put a footnote to the call to move the 2014 ice hockey world championships. i think this is an unnecessary form of symbolic politics and mustard after the meal. this situation reminds me of the gratuitous uproar over the olympic games in china.
mr president, i do not think that enlargement of the european union is at issue. and certainly not at a time when a great crisis is sweeping through the countries and the european union is tottering. although the report recommends that serbia be proposed as a candidate country, it lists all sorts of problems which should lead to the recommendation that serbia not be promoted as a candidate country. it is clear that a country like serbia is miles away from the old union countries in all areas of economy, governance, human rights and crime.
as i said earlier, mr president, enlargement of the european union is not an issue for me at all, and certainly not at a time when a major crisis is sweeping through the countries and the european union is faltering. as with serbia, i can say that kosovo is miles away from the old union countries on all fronts in terms of economy, governance, human rights and crime. i therefore voted against the report.
mr president, i do not think that enlargement of the european union is at all a question of discussion, and certainly not at a time when a major crisis is sweeping through the member states and the european union is faltering. apart from the question of whether turkey should be part of the european union for geographical reasons, we are also talking about an islamic country with 80 million inhabitants, which can exert enormous power within the european union. in addition, it fulfils virtually none of the conditions for being considered a serious democracy. i am sure that we cannot welcome such a country.
president, montenegro is also far from ready for eu membership. the balkan countries are still far from matching the old union countries in terms of economy, governance, human rights and crime. i also believe that the european union should no longer allow any state to enter.
mr president, once again we are seeing an initiative whereby europe is taking over the role of national governments. the fact that the commission is only taking a one tier board into account is telling. the differences between countries in corporate tax legislation are such that it is much more effective to regulate it at national level. the case is that in many countries this is regulated by self-regulation in the form of codes. i am quite clearly against additional regulations in this area and i am totally against european regulations. i therefore voted against this report.
mr president, why is it that i hardly ever read reports these days that do not mention climate change? it's climate change before and climate change after. how can anyone take themselves seriously in making policy if they continue to base themselves on scientifically questionable assumptions? that is why i voted against the annual report on the european investment bank.
president. - in accordance with the policy of the dutch government, i am of the opinion that romania and bulgaria should not be admitted to the schengen area. the present report calls on the netherlands to abandon this blockade. i do not agree with this, except that the netherlands is simply a sovereign country. in fact, i believe that the schengen agreement should be comprehensively revised to combat the influx of illegal immigrants and crime.
for the epp group in recent days, shocking reports have been broadcast on dutch television and radio about the abduction and forced conversion to islam of christian girls and women in egypt. take, for example, the images of carved crosses on the hand and wrist of the 27-year-old married egyptian woman who escaped her kidnappers and torturers. i understand that on 9 december 2011 the high representative responded to earlier questions about this extremely serious violation of the legal position of egyptian christians. she then lamented the difficulty of proving the charges of kidnapping, abuse and forced conversions. at the same time, the high representative wrote to the egyptian authorities to continue to urge them to cooperate in this heart-breaking matter. i would like to make you, mr high representative, very happy to keep this promise. the fact that the evangelical broadcasting in my country is so moving and factually based gives you every reason to do so. speaking of facts: egypt's oldest and largest human rights organization euhro officially reports that in the last 10 months, over 1,500 christian parents have come to it for the abduction of their daughters. in 80% of cases, the victims are underage girls. so far, only 10 have returned. madam high representative, i have before me the images of an egyptian couple with a nine-year-old daughter, watching the video of their abducted 15-year-old daughter, nabila, in tears. "if you want me to come back home, you must first convert to islam!" nabila swears. this new public evidence of the abductions and forced conversions of egyptian girls and women calls for appropriate action. the european union must continue to urge the egyptian authorities to find out the truth about these violations of the law in order to secure justice for the country's significant christian minority. madam high representative, what can i expect from you in particular and will you please inform me through your department?
for the greens/efa group two weeks ago, i was in dakar, senegal, and i spoke to a touareg, who had just fled from mali, a well-educated man, a marabou, a spiritual leader, but of the liberal kind. all his children, boys and girls, had gone to college. none of his children lived or worked in mali, because it was too dangerous, too obscure, and the touareg felt too heavily discriminated against. the man said "those rebels, those touareg rebels are villains, they may use islam as an argument, but they have never seen a mosque inside!". a reasonable man, but even this man said, "i understand and i support these rebels". and i think that's a very dangerous signal. i left him, not quite understanding what the hell was going on. but it is very clear to me that there is no conflict in mali that has just begun. we are talking about generations of non-cooperation and the lack of respect between majorities and minorities. but here too, and it is the same every time, there is an unfair distribution of wealth. there's money in the soil of mali, resources that could make the country rich. but these are not being used properly, they are not being distributed fairly and i think that is part of the solution.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of the following criteria: the problem is the huge influx of arms from neighbouring countries. can europe play a preventive, positive role in this respect? because both in the syrian golan and in southern lebanon, thousands of un peacekeepers are stationed. many of them have european nationality. is it feasible, madam high representative, to have some of these european blue helmets temporarily control the syrian-jordanian and syrian-lebanese borders? the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. is the eu pressing the syrian national council to engage in political talks in addition to the syrian authorities? the eu has also welcomed the syrian acceptance of the kofi annan peace plan.
there have been incredibly many positive developments in burma recently. there was a good reform agenda by president thein sein, which has led to democratic and economic progress. the regional council elections were also positive. i also think - and many of my colleagues have already said this - that these positive developments should be rewarded. i therefore believe that we as the european union must take the lead in this. i therefore support mrs ashton's initiative to go there next week and also to open an office there. the council of ministers will be meeting next week to discuss the possibility of easing sanctions. i think it is too early to remove all sanctions. because there are still too many big problems. i therefore also think that mrs ashton should ensure that the arms embargo is maintained, that the visa restrictions for the junta are maintained. burma has certainly taken a step in the right direction with this president and with the democratic elections. but this must be followed by economic and political support for reform, the release of all political prisoners, fair and free elections, an end to violence and human rights violations in areas where minorities still live. it is only when all this has been done that we can, after the easing of sanctions now, lift them completely.
i think that wage dumping is the central theme of the question and i have a question about that too. in international road transport there are many drivers in the netherlands who are writing me dramatic letters at the moment saying that dutch companies are opening a branch in, say, romania, then taking the staff from there - with the same trucks they had in their company in the netherlands before - and then telling their dutch drivers that there is no more work for them unless they accept the working conditions that apply to the romanians. i think that is a direct form of wage dumping. a simple movement in europe can suddenly bring down working conditions for the same company. i do not see any guarantee in the commission's proposal for a directive on the posting of workers that this kind of fraudulent activity by companies will be prevented. i would like to know from the commission how we are doing this and whether it is europe's intention that we should reduce wages.
i thank the commissioner. i had also seen, of course, that the commission proposal mentions letterbox companies. my question is: what does the commission understand by important or non-important economic activity? the second question i would like to ask is: is the commission prepared to make more proposals in the future for minimum agreements on social rights in the various countries, for example a minimum wage linked to national income? because then we'll also solve this problem structurally.
mr president, i have spent the last half hour enthusiastically retweeting mr andor’s tweets about the employment package – while of course listening very attentively to the rest of you – because i am really happy with the questions that the package raises. finally the debate seems to be shifting to the real economy and to the actual people who live in europe. finally there is attention to job creation and to labour demands and to greening the economy, which i think is a highly welcome and long overdue shift of the debate. the specific questions i have concern wages. firstly, will the commission adapt the scoreboard for macroeconomic imbalances in such a way that excessive wage moderation is considered an imbalance as well? secondly, will the commission address country-specific recommendations to those countries without decent minimum wages? thirdly, how do you envision making a tripartite forum for monitoring wage developments at eu level fruitful and durable? past attempts have not been that successful.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that ikea is a dutch company, as is eni, the italian oil company, coca cola hbc, the so-called greek soft drink bottler, and the largest portuguese supermarket, jerónimo martins. of course, these companies are not really dutch. this is an ingenious structure with an administrative office in the netherlands and real activities elsewhere. these companies do this in order to pay as little tax as possible through secret agreements with the dutch tax authorities. they often make use of the network of tax treaties established by the netherlands, which allows them to shift their profits to tax havens after paying a minimum tax in the netherlands. it is shocking to see such multinationals avoiding taxation, while people all over europe are having to tighten their belts because of the austerity rage. the heaviest shoulders carry the lightest loads. this problem cannot be solved at national level; the european union must act. in the resolution we call for transparency. the annual accounts of multinationals must be much clearer and more specific, i.e. they must give an insight into turnover and profit figures by country. tax treaties, both between member states and with third countries, should be scrutinised and coordinated to prevent their being misused for tax evasion. we must also have a european minimum rate of corporation tax. i hope the commission will take up this widely-received resolution and make proposals in a hurry.
it is always nice to see that when we talk in general terms about our tax system, we are always in favour of greening the tax system. we always want to include environmental costs in the pricing until it becomes concrete. then, according to some of our colleagues, all we have to do is to defend the single market. if so, please stop using that environmental rhetoric which is apparently only for the bühne. then we know for sure from now on that we will never have to hear that again. but let us use the facts well. they say the price of diesel is going up for everyone. that's just not true! perhaps for luxembourg, which now has a levy of 32 cents per litre. yes, that levy should go to 40 cents in 2018! indeed, luxembourg will suffer, but germany already has a 47-cent levy. so germany will not have to change anything until 2018. why can't i hear that? and the answer that, this could mean the end of the diesel engine, what nonsense! where's the most expensive gasoline? in the netherlands! 70% more expensive than diesel. where do you have the least diesel cars? right, in the netherlands! so let us use the facts, this is a very modest proposal and let us turn the rhetoric of environmental costs into action for once.
rapporteur. − mr president, today we are at the conclusion of a process which started in march 2003. we have been working on this transatlantic data sharing deal for nine years, and i think that – whatever the outcome of today’s vote – one conclusion that we can already draw is that it is telling and disappointing that, after nine years of negotiations with our closest friend and ally, we can only come up with an agreement that commands half-hearted support from a divided house. i therefore think that, whatever today’s outcome, we need to have a closer look at how we deal with our transatlantic friends and at the position of the european union in the transatlantic partnership. we need to reflect on whether we are not weak compared with our partner. as you all know, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) voted a couple of weeks ago and – to my regret – rejected my recommendation to vote against the eu-us agreement, so the position of the libe committee is to recommend adoption of the agreement. however, i think that everybody – or almost everybody, including those who will vote in favour today – still has a number of questions. firstly, i would like to say something about a new element, namely the declaration of the european commission, which we received yesterday and which, as i see it, does not change anything: it does not contain any new elements. it is only the european commission’s interpretation and is not binding on the us, so it does not make us change our minds. with regard to the gue resolution proposing to submit this agreement to the european court of justice: although i have great sympathy for it and it is very tempting, i am a democrat and i am very reluctant to outsource political decision-making to the courts, and i think that this house should take its own responsibility. i said there are still a couple of questions that i would like to put to the commission. the commission has its own interpretation of article 4 on the purpose limitation, but i am still curious to find out – and i am sure many colleagues here would like to know – how you conclude that systematic use of the data for other purposes is explicitly excluded. which words in article 4 lead you to that conclusion? how do you conclude that the use of pnr data for public health purposes, immigration policies and customs is explicitly excluded, and how is the use of the data for those purposes based on articles 82 and 87 on police and justice cooperation? i think that much has been said about the retention periods. i would also like to ask the commission about push and pull. you say that pull will only be used in a very limited number of exceptional cases, but i would like to put some figures before you that we received from the association of european airlines. just a few figures from 2010 and 2011 show that there are ad hoc pulls tens of thousands of times a day. in december 2010, for example, there were 82 500 individual ad hoc pulls a day. i would like to know: how you can conclude that that is exceptional? concerning judicial redress: the agreement specifically states that no rights may be derived from this agreement, either for individuals or for other legal persons. how can you come to the conclusion that there is full judicial redress for eu citizens? i realise my time is up and i would like to save the rest of my time for after the debate.
blue-card question. − mr president, i have a question for mr voss and his political group. he rightly points out that there needs to be a legal base for the transfer of passenger data, so i wonder why this house has not reacted to the fact that, for three and a half years now, data has been transferred to canada in the absence of any legal base and that, under the us secure flight programme, data is being transferred from europe to the united states for flights not going to the united states, while this house does not seem to care. why is it that we want a legal base in one case and not in the other cases?
blue-card question. – mr president, i have two brief questions for mr kirkhope. you said we have to accept the authority of the legal department of the european commission. i ask you: do you accept the authority of the european data protection supervisor and the article 29 working group, who have both pointed out that this agreement is a violation of eu law? my second question: you rightfully referred to security purposes, but i would like to know why the conservatives – who are always concerned about small government and stating their preference for it over big government – allow the systematic use of these data for public health purposes, immigration policies and customs policies?
the primary task of the public authorities is security, and with this in mind, in europe each member state has the responsibility to protect its own citizens against terrorism. never should any country be prevented from doing so by brussels' meddling. the citizens have a right to expect security. countries should therefore decide for themselves who may enter their territory and what conditions are attached to this. and that applies, of course, to countries outside europe. america knows perfectly well how to fight terrorism, so what is brussels doing? if a country demands personal data from anyone who wants to enter its territory for security reasons, it is not only its right, it is its duty. if a citizen does not want to give up his personal data, he will not be able to enter. that is a personal decision, with which brussels has nothing to do. because, mr president, let me be clear, personal data is the property of the individual, not of companies and certainly not of brussels! it is therefore absolutely not for brussels to negotiate whether or not to provide personal data of eu citizens to third parties. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in the middle east. but this agreement does not even acknowledge that islam is one of the greatest inspirations for modern terrorism, and that is shameful. brussels is naive and the member states accept the limitation of their responsibility towards their own citizens. and i blame them for that. (the president declared the request for a 'blue card' question to be answered) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. president. - this is an example of the naivety i mentioned earlier. i believe that i can say from the figures that there were 11 000 attacks in muslim countries last year, all of them terrorism inspired by islam. where do you think the attacks in toulouse, in madrid, in london, the twin towers came from? how can i prove that islam is a source of terrorism? look around you and read the paper. and again: it is a shame that the only members of parliament who seem to recognize this are on this side of the house. i heard mrs ernst say that security is an illusion. the attitude of this parliament is indeed that.
the example of toulouse was mentioned earlier today, and i would like to mention the example of the nigerian who flew from yemen via amsterdam to detroit. his father had called the american embassy and said: "my son is up to no good". the french authorities also had information about the terrorist in toulouse. our security services have information about individuals who have evil intentions and they don't do the right thing with it. i think it would be primarily to our own security, if our security services did what they could with the information they have. on the other hand, pnr is actually a form of signals policy. in times of danger, people do strange things, people make irrational decisions, and then you can't go back. collecting data from every traveller around the world who moves is more about signals politics than effective counterterrorism.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask ms foster if she sticks by her slur on me, and – by extension – on all those colleagues who will oppose this agreement, in saying that i have not given sufficient thought to security. i would like to know whether she has actually read the agreement and the objections against it. can she please answer the question on how public health, immigration policies and customs controls have a bearing on aeroplanes at 37 000 feet above the ground?
rapporteur. − madam president, very quickly, first of all, i would like to clear up a misunderstanding. i have said this countless times: nobody in this house disputes the need to use data in the fight against terrorism and serious transnational crime, mrs foster – nobody. but we do dispute the use of these data for other purposes like communicable diseases, as the commission said, and immigration and customs checks. secondly, i would like to put a question to the commission. you have a certain interpretation of article 4 that is not shared by everybody, but what is key here is this: is it shared by the united states authorities and how do we know? thirdly, i would like to address mrs corazza bildt. yes, politics is about compromises, but certain things are not negotiable, like fundamental rights and eu law. i do not understand how we are able to reach a good agreement or an acceptable agreement with our australian friends and not with our american friends and allies. that escapes me completely. i think the analysis by our epp colleague, mr engel, was spot on. without the agreement, we do not have weaker safeguards, because the safeguards that are there are provided by existing us legislation and will still be there, even if we vote down this agreement. on push and pull, commissioner, as renate weber right said, not all carriers will shift to ‘pull’, and you know and we know that this clause is not enforceable. even if ‘push’ is in place, as it is today, ‘pull’ is still being used. this means that the americans go into our computer systems and pull the data. i have not heard you answer my question: why do you qualify as ‘exceptional’ tens of thousands of pulls – up to 82 000 – a day? how, frankly, do you qualify that as exceptional? finally, on monitoring. if the experience with the swift agreement and the monitoring of that is anything to go by, monitoring is a joke. one last question. colleagues, ask yourselves, look yourselves in the eye and ask yourselves: if other countries knock on our door and ask – and we know that they will, as qatar and japan have already done, and south korea and cuba will come, south africa will come, china and russia too – are we willing to give them our data for use in profiling on the same terms as we are doing for the united states now? that is a key question.
for the greens/efa group the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. in the debates we have had in this parliament, the greens have tried to bring forward generous proposals, giving protection to victims of trafficking in the form of a residence permit. we have not succeeded in doing so, it has become a temporary residence permit and a temporary residence permit means that after, for example, a court case, you could be sent back to the place from which you were trafficked, perhaps also to the people who helped to traffick you. that's still a shortcoming. i am glad to see that the victims package now being negotiated with the council recognizes that victims deserve support regardless of their legal status, i.e. whether they are legal or illegal. that will help victims of human trafficking.
the directive on trafficking in human beings, mr president, provides greater protection for the victims and better means of dealing with the perpetrators. unfortunately, however, the member states are still not making full use of the opportunities offered by the directive and, moreover, are still not tackling prostitution in particular. we know that 80% of the women and girls trafficked end up in prostitution, mainly through a mixture of lies, false promises and corruption. and then they're trapped in that underworld. we must try to get them out of it, madam president, because unfortunately this crime is still not widely recognised. the result is that european projects to warn or to take care of women and girls are barely getting off the ground. the cooperation between the police, particularly between western and eastern europe, really needs to be much better. we must not hide this crime out of shame, but we must make use of the directive. i call on the member states to do so and i support the european commissioner in this. we must get rid of these crimes, because they can still happen too much unhindered and we must continue to fight against them.
rapporteur. − mr president, in reply to a number of colleagues who were confused about exactly how to vote: if you are for the agreement you have to vote for the report and if you are against the agreement you have to vote against it. i just wanted to be absolutely sure that there is no confusion. (applause and laughter)
rapporteur. − mr president, just for the record for the administration, i would like to dissociate myself from the report as obviously it is contrary to my recommendation. (applause)
in writing. - i do not support the lulling report. the principle of reforming the taxation of energy products and electricity on the basis of co2 emissions and energy content is positive. however, higher energy taxes should be compensated in other areas, for example by lower taxes on labour. the eu does not (rightly) provide for this. in order to make a successful revision of the energy tax, compensation with other taxes at national level is necessary. as it is not currently provided for, the consequences of the present proposal are insufficient to assess.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, a lot has been said already here about the quality of the fingerprints and the whole system and different steps in the chain, but i would like to raise another issue, and that is the justification for having biometrics in passports in the first place. in the netherlands, a recent request for access to documents revealed that the justification given at the time, namely document fraud and particularly lookalike fraud, was actually only established in between 20 and 40 cases in the course of a year in a country with nearly 17 million inhabitants. so one wonders why this whole system – which is extremely costly and which clearly has a lot of shortcomings – had to be introduced on such a thin justification. i wonder if the commission is going to include that element and that information in its evaluation.
i have received reports that greece is planning to detain migrants, whether they have applied for asylum or not, if they are allegedly a danger to public health. for example, people who carry diseases or live in unsanitary conditions. i hear there are plans to build more detention centers. there is talk of street and downtown cleanup operations. racist and xenophobic tendencies are on the rise. greece is currently failing to meet its legal responsibility for reception facilities and is thus forcing third country nationals to live in poverty, only to then detain them again for that reason. fortunately, the eu is helping to improve the situation. but is this the kind of action the commission had in mind? is eu money being used to lock people up? and will the commission take action to combat the increase in discrimination and xenophobia? this requires extra attention, especially in these difficult economic times.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission and in particular of my colleague connie hedegaard, who unfortunately cannot be here today, i very much welcome the report on women and climate change. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and also for her very convincing opening statement. this is a good opportunity to discuss how the eu can help women put their stamp on future climate policy. climate change is already a fact of life for many on our planet, especially in the developing world. as you know, climate-change effects hit the most vulnerable the hardest. in the poorest and least-developed countries, women, children and the elderly are the first to suffer. as the report rightly says, even though climate change is gender-neutral, its effects are gender-differentiated. when addressing climate change, the eu looks at how consumption and lifestyle patterns have an impact on our environment. by supporting sustainable, green, low-emission development, we are helping to mitigate the effects of climate change and to stimulate economic development, which will make the poor and vulnerable – predominantly women and children – the principal beneficiaries. the eu supports mitigation actions through the geographic and thematic programmes of this development cooperation. as an example, i would like to mention the sustainable energy for all summit this week in brussels, where two panels were dedicated to access to sustainable energy for women. better access to modern sustainable energy – to cooking stoves, for example – will reduce the use of traditional biomass, which will in turn reduce deforestation. it will also increase the available time women have, which would otherwise be spent on collecting wood and cooking on inefficient fires. we have to ensure that we have more of such win-win programmes. the eu also aims to mainstream climate-change adaptation into eu policies including those on migration and disaster risk reduction. it is all about being forward-looking in order to minimise the inevitable adverse impacts of climate change and gender inequality. gender is already among the 11 forms of social impact which should be screened as part of any impact assessment carried out today by the commission before it makes any kind of proposal. as underlined in the report, gender-neutral policies start with gender-balanced representation in policy definition. decision-makers need to listen to women and make use of their knowledge in adaptation and mitigation strategies. however, while women constitute the majority of the world’s poor, women’s voices are often insufficiently heard. women are under-represented in national decision-making and in international climate negotiations. in the recent communication on a renewed eu-pacific development partnership it is stated clearly that gender inequalities may hamper countries’ capacity to address climate change impacts. this is particularly relevant in a region like the pacific, where women are under-represented in public decision-making and levels of gender-based violence remain high. pacific leaders acknowledge the need to take women’s experience, knowledge and priorities into account more effectively if they are to address the impact of climate change successfully and be able to achieve sustainable development. in line with the goal of raising women’s representation to the 40% level advocated in this report, women have chaired the last three conferences of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), and the durban conference of the parties adopted decisions explicitly referring to the need to ensure gender balance in the adaptation committee and the standing committee on climate finance. the eu needs to ensure gender balance among the members of these bodies as far as possible. the danish presidency decision to present the set of indicators on women and climate change to the council illustrates the fact that this critical area is high on the agenda. this is an important step towards developing a comprehensive toolkit for evaluating the gender dimension of decision-making and policies at all levels. we will need funding and capacity-building to enhance women’s knowledge of climate change and how to adapt their daily lives. it is our responsibility to give the concerns of women and the most vulnerable a place in national and international climate policy. the report before us is a very useful contribution in advocating climate equity: i commend it and i applaud the rapporteur and the european parliament for this initiative. i would like to conclude on this positive note: i truly believe that climate action can contribute to development in the world’s poorest regions and improve the living conditions of many men and women in the developing world. the commission will continue to mainstream gender issues into policy-making, including the fight against climate change and adaptation to the adverse effects of climate change.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - first of all, thank you very much to our rapporteur. the poorest population in the world is 70% female. as the rapporteur and the commissioner have already said, climate change is particularly hard on women. they are the main victims of natural disasters and conflicts over, for example, natural resources. ironically, women are among the least climate-impacted population groups, and the share of women in decision-making in new climate strategies is actually far too low. but they are the most experienced experts and i think that they can make a good contribution to a better climate policy. there is still far too little knowledge about gender equality and climate change, but it is clear that more equality is better for the climate and a better climate contributes to more gender equality. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that needs to change, and i would say: a smart girl is prepared for climate change!
- i'm the reporter. - ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a financial and economic crisis and we cannot ignore it. the newspapers are full of it every day, the television news programmes are opened with it and the european council meets on virtually nothing else. but besides this pervasive crisis, we have another crisis, a very quiet crisis. a silent crisis of disappearing species, of disappearing habitats and of ever-growing oceans. that is the crisis we are discussing this morning. the figures are known; 25% of all species in europe are seriously threatened, only one sixth of all habitats in europe are in a favourable state, and as much as 75% of all fish stocks are overfished. according to the accountants of teeb, the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity, we lose 3% of our gross national product every year because of biodiversity loss. that would be 450 billion euros a year for europe! and that is very different from the one-off emergency fund for the euro that our government leaders have been working for two years now to raise that money. you could also say that we are talking about the largest multinational in europe today. because there is nothing that produces so much food, that provides so many services and provides us with so many products and so many jobs. today we are talking about europe's greatest service provider, nature! and any other multinational of that size would be politically sanctified, indeed, it would be too big to fail. but in the multinational nature of things, unfortunately, that often comes down to a few words. because let us be honest, we were also here ten years ago when we adopted the previous biodiversity strategy. and the loss of species would have stopped in 2010. we have failed miserably in this, and why? because in those moments when it really mattered, fine words proved to be of little value and other interests prevailed. so the big question today is: what are we doing differently than we have done in the last ten years to avoid having to find out in 2020 that we have failed again? let us begin with what we are legally obliged to do. is that too much to ask of member states? why should the citizen obey the law and not the member states? so it is not like the netherlands to refuse to restore nature in the western scheldt, as required by law, and then get angry when commissioner potočnik does not accept that. it is also of course very important that we integrate these environmental concerns into the other policy areas. we are having a unique moment! the agricultural policy is being reformed, the fisheries policy is being reformed, the cohesion policy is being reformed. half of europe's territory is agricultural land. without the active contribution of farmers, there is no nature. but i also say to my colleagues: without strong nature there is no agriculture, without bees there is no pollination, without fertile soil there is no crop. we must also develop and implement the no net loss principle. can anyone suggest a better way to halt the loss of biodiversity than simply stopping these activities that destroy nature? we also need to stop talking about incorporating natural capital in our national accounts, and simply start doing so: not words, but deeds! we must also dare to think bigger. many europeans think that true nature is only to be found in africa or the amazon. - that's not true! europe has a great natural heritage, but it does not yet have its own serengeti or yellowstone. but we can have it. there are areas of poor agricultural land, areas where people are moving away. let us invest in it in a different way and build it into new wilderness, into attractions for nature lovers. a real safari in europe, it can be! it also gives these desolate areas a whole new economic perspective. finally, mr president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive contribution to bringing the report to its present position. and of course commissioner potočnik, who does not fail to speak out for nature, which is important in europe and beyond. he did that in an impressive way in nagoya and will do so again at rio+20. the next step is to legislate. i am very much looking forward to helping him in this parliament and, in particular, to fighting with the council. colleagues, let us be careful with nature, the world's greatest and most important service provider. this multinational is all of ours! and one exception has already been made, state aid is possible!
a day of laughter is a day not lived! this report by mr gerbrandy is incredibly ridiculous. first of all, the sheer naivety of thinking that humans can manipulate the preservation of genetic diversity. secondly, it's very ridiculous to ask accountants to include ecosystems in their accounting system, say the flowers and the bees on the balance sheet. it is, however, irritating to hear that we should develop more wetlands, or swamps, in europe. that's asking for the return of scary diseases like malaria. it is ridiculous that mr gerbrandy is trying to create a european environmental police force, one that will come as a big brother to check whether we are actually complying with the costly, useless and harmful environmental rules of brussels. i also read that the eu must indoctrinate schoolchildren and students with the new biodiversity doctrine, that good agricultural land must be given up to ecosystems and that fisheries are being further hampered, while we do not even know what the state of fish stocks is. but the biggest joke is in his tail! mr gerbrandy wants the eu development cooperation commission to introduce the concept of biodiversity sustainability. i was unconscious! unfortunately, mr. gerbrandy believes his own rumours. i hope very much that this parliament will show more reason and not go along with his madness. and of course, mr potočnik, we are not going to flood good agricultural land in the netherlands, especially not in zeeland, because that would be a huge destruction of biodiversity.
there are still people in this house who think that biodiversity is just a "protect areas" thing. for those people who believe that, or still believe that, it's very important to know that biodiversity is the core of our food, the core of clean water. we all do! people who only shout that we should not protect areas, they still have not understood what the essence of biodiversity is, so mr hartong, do your homework a little better! various studies show that the biodiversity we destroy costs 3% of our gross national product every year. that is the value of biodiversity and that is what we have to talk about. we already see concrete examples: in agriculture, we see the bee population declining, and bees are crucial to our food supply! but also in fishing, yes, it's getting harder and harder to fish, but why is that? because we overfish! that is the problem and that is what we have to talk about. that is why we wholeheartedly support the commissioner with his biodiversity agenda for 2020, but of course there is a big problem if we only talk about targets for 2020. we need to talk about policy now! we are also talking in this house about our agricultural policy and our fisheries policy. let's get real about this. i therefore count on all those who are saying today how important biodiversity is in the real reform of our agricultural policy and our fisheries policy, so that biodiversity does not remain in words but is actually acted upon. (the president declared the request for a 'blue card' question to be answered) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" question. what is it? i would like to ask my esteemed colleague mr eickhout the following, because he talks a lot about biodiversity, the preservation of species, etc. will he sign the letter from the pvv to the danish presidency condemning the terrible slaughter of friends in the faroe islands?
"blue card" is the answer. i think that is a very good question, because i have just heard mr hartong and i have heard him say all kinds of nonsense about biodiversity. but suddenly, with the whales, if he can bother the danish president a little, he thinks it's very important! i am happy to say, mr president, that we are consistent as green leftists, so yes, we will sign that letter, because we consider this, like biodiversity, to be an important issue. so please be consistent, on your side, and not just talk about whales, but talk about real biodiversity. we shall come back to this in due course.
- i'm the reporter. - i would like to thank my colleagues in particular for the very broad support for our report on biodiversity. unfortunately , there is one exception . mr hartong, from your own country. he does not have the decency to attend the end of the debate. he started laughing, and i saw many smiling faces during his speech, only, unfortunately for him, those were smiles of sympathy and of substitute shame. i'd like to give him one piece of advice: let him live on mars for a while. on the red planet he is not bothered at all by the european commission and perhaps he can look at the blue planet from that red planet and see, above all, the great importance and the great distinctiveness of that blue planet and why we humans can live there and not on mars. maybe someone would like to pass that on to him. in addition to the broad support for the report, i think it is also important that in this debate we have expressed very strong political support for greater protection of biodiversity. and that is important not only for the adoption of my report, but above all as a political signal to both the european commission and the council in the further development of legislation. this is a non-legislative report. it will of course only really come into play when we are talking about legislation. then it is also about the other policy areas. i am very pleased with the fine words of my colleagues on this subject, but i would like to remind them of those words when we actually start to take concrete decisions on the new agricultural policy, the new fisheries policy, the new cohesion policy and, of course, the development policy. those are the moments that really matter and then the beautiful words of today are hopefully worth as much as they are today.
on behalf of the alde group the commissioner was just referring to the informal environment council held in denmark this week, and i would like to start by quoting from the press release: "there is no other way out of the economic crisis than through a green economy, which will strengthen the development of new and greener technologies, resource reductions, and the protection of our nature and the biodiversity. a green transition will create millions of jobs and make europe more sustainable and competitive". i must congratulate both the commissioner and the danish presidency and minister ida auken on this message which i consider to be extremely positive and visionary. it has been a long time since such positive voices have been heard from the council. i hope therefore that the council will take this forward. we have just discussed this in the debate on biodiversity and next month we will be discussing resource efficiency in the plenary. i believe that the seventh environment action programme should set out the priorities for 2020 with the associated objectives, indicators and actions. i am also concerned that we are looking beyond 2050 and are setting out the vision of a green europe. the informal environment council has already started to do so. the seventh environment action programme must be an overarching framework that streamlines all the objectives and actions in eu policies, because only in this way will we preserve nature for our children and our economy. because i keep saying it: greening and economics go hand in hand! finally, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr leinen, for his excellent work and i would like to call on the commission to really speed up the new proposal in order not to widen the gap between the sixth and seventh environmental action programmes. we have shown today that we come from this house with excellent ideas for you to inspire.
i would like to thank mr leinen for his report on the seventh environmental action programme and indeed we greens also feel that we need a seventh environmental action programme, first of all mr gerbrandy, to set out the vision for 2020, but also for 2050, because what kind of economy do we want to live in as europe? the choice is not how green the economy will be, but that it will be green. only an economy which manages its natural resources efficiently will be able to survive, and it is of crucial importance to europe that we move in that direction. that is why we need vision, but also action programmes to take these steps now. that is why we fully support the focus of this report on implementation, integration and the international dimension. let me just get back to implementation: we have seen time and again the importance of implementation. when we see what can go wrong with oil drilling in the north sea, and when we see the problems we in the netherlands, a very prosperous country, have in simply protecting our nature in the western scheldt, we realise that we need the european commission to point this out to us. then the integration, that green economy: everyone here calls it, but it really means something fundamental. we must look beyond gross national product. we need to look at broader indicators and i call on the commission to really do that much more quickly, beyond gdp. but green economy also means that we have to start thinking about what our energy system will look like in the future. that means that we need more than just a low-carbon target for 2030. we must also set targets for energy saving and renewable energy. finally, there is the international dimension. everything we do in europe has consequences for third world countries. we must always bear this in mind, because without that world the green economy will never take off internationally. let us make a real start at rio+20.
i thank mr leinen for his report and the great emphasis on a broad approach to implementation and integration. i also thank you, commissioner, for your attention to this and your preparations for a seventh environmental action programme. mr leinen is quite right when he says that it is not just about the environment, but above all about all the sectors of the economy, about transport, about health care, that it is about economic policy in general. the environment is economic policy, now and especially in the future. i would like to draw your attention to two specific concerns. very often we rush enthusiastically into a new technique that has not always been proven to be the right one to produce the results we seek. we are paying a lot of attention to biomass and, of course, the economy of the future will be more dependent on biological raw materials. but we have been too enthusiastic about biomass, and as a result, a lot of it is now going into the furnace, whereas it could be used for more than just energy. so i think you are right, commissioner, and mr leinen is right. a lot of implementation, but also, and most importantly, how are we going to do that with biomass? sustainable use. how should we treat biomass so that it actually leads to that co2 reduction, so that it does not lead to more water consumption and to conclude: nanotechnology also has many ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. - the pvv voted against this report. the report is gross in its use of vague assumptions and far-fetched conclusions. for example, according to the report, 'climate change is not gender neutral'. moreover, women 'do not have the same impact on the environment as men' and the report advocates 'climate justice'. the climate hysteria and feminism are all but wiped out by the report. the pvv cannot take this report seriously. what is the next report we can expect? women and fishing quotas? women and carbon emissions? the citizens will ask themselves whether the european parliament really has nothing better to do. the pvv votes against this useless report.
in writing. − although i agree with the essence and majority of the text of the leinen report ‘review of the 6th environment action programme and the setting of priorities for the 7th environment action programme’, i strongly believe that competences in tax matters should remain with the member states. therefore i voted against §65, which takes the view that the 7th eap should address fiscal reform measures to enhance member states’ activities on shifting taxes from labour to natural resources and to pollutants.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the agreement was reached quickly, and that is what is needed, because the current rules are due to expire in a few weeks. the maximum tariffs in the agreement are, however, considerably lower than those originally proposed by the commission. the result is good for consumers, who will already notice the difference when they travel abroad this summer. calling is getting cheaper, texting is getting cheaper. but the real work, of course, is mostly in the manipulation of data. it's a major surgery. now it's what's crazy about it, say, about 3 euros per mb, and soon it's going to be much lower, namely 70 cents per mb. today is europe day and we celebrate europe's success stories of the past. indeed, intervention in the mobile phone market is one of europe's success stories, but it is a success story of the past. my question is: is that what we've done now the success story of the future? because what we've decided now is a suboptimal solution. it's a solution with a lot of consumer hassle. the basic is the disconnection of the national and international market and there are all things with dual imsi, the dual sim card and local breakout. why take the detour? it could have been a lot easier. now consumers have to spend hours in the evening studying on the computer which contracts they have to conclude everywhere. if the objective is the digital single market, why this detour? there is an optimal solution, and that is "roam like home", and we could have achieved that much faster. my question is, without further intervention, will that happen in 2016? the proposal was therefore to do so earlier. a genuine internal market is europe's success story, and it has been mentioned here. so , what do you say ? the commission has also proposed that the maximum tariffs should be gradually reduced to a single european tariff as from 1 july 2014. benefits: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. "stop roaming now" was the motto. i have some questions: the roaming agreement includes net neutrality. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on this subject, and the dutch parliament has passed a law to ensure net neutrality, namely that providers cannot simply give priority to certain websites. you said, commissioner, that after a study by berec (which was actually carried out on 6 march) you would come up with a proposal for net neutrality. the success story must give a continuation to the digital market.
the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the blood of all its citizens. as far as the pvv is concerned, this is too premature and must be preceded by a question. is there really an arab spring? i'll help you answer that question on the way. in tunisia, two bloggers were recently sentenced to seven years in prison for their atheist views. in the same country, tunisia, there is talk of criminalizing relations with the state of israel and of incorporating this into the constitution. in egypt, unfortunately, it's not much better. this year alone, an estimated 1,500 coptic girls have been abducted, circumcised and forced to convert to islam. the islamic sharia is also threatening to be introduced in egypt. i now ask you the question: do these developments really deserve the arab spring label? does anyone dare to use this term in front of all those women, christians and non-muslims who are oppressed? instead of an arab spring, an islamic winter is looming. i hope my colleagues will have the courage to face this. the emergence of fundamentalist islamic parties in the region is at odds with the values we embrace in europe. we must be careful not to make too light a decision to enter into trade relations with such regimes. we're sending the wrong signal. the message that the european union must send is that it will not deepen trade relations as long as regimes commit human rights violations or fail to act against them. we also owe it to the victims and the many vulnerable minorities in the region.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. any breeder may freely use a variety for the development of a new variety (limited breeder's exemption) and may also freely market his new variety (general breeder's exemption). it is also necessary to include such a breeder exemption in patent law. it turns out that even varieties are indirectly patented, for example by a patent on a trait. in parentheses: i also reject such an exclusive claim to god's creation on principle. my first question to the commissioner - and i promise to wait until the end of the debate and therefore await your reply - is: is there any prospect of a revision of the biopatent directive? my last question concerns the unitary patent regulation. the itre joint consultative committee advised the juri committee, which was responsible for the matter, to include a limited grower exemption in the regulation. amendments to this effect, also by my esteemed colleague mr de lange, were unfortunately not adopted in the juri committee. what is the commission's view of a limited grower exemption in the regulation on cooperation in unitary patent protection?
i come from a country where, since the introduction of a handful of tulip bulbs, so to speak, some four hundred years ago, hundreds, if not thousands, of species and varieties have now been developed. the european agriculture and horticulture have grown up precisely by constantly reinventing themselves, constantly developing new and better species. this is not just true of my country, it is true of all the agricultural regions in europe. the innovative capacity of european agriculture, of agriculture worldwide, will only become more relevant. we're going to have nine billion mouths to feed, and so we need species that use less water and fewer pesticides and, for example, are more resistant to disease. our growers can meet that challenge, but we have to give them some space and clarity, and that is what is lacking at the moment. in the area of breeding law - and i am referring to the international upov convention, among other things, but also to article 4 of the bioprotection directive - we propose that people can use each other's breeds to breed, develop and discover new breeds. it's called the breeder's exemption. by contrast, patent law requires that any use of a variety be licensed by the patent holder. the rapid development of patent law in europe is jeopardizing the freedom of breeders, the freedom of development, and that must not happen. it is not ethically acceptable - and colleagues have already spoken about this - but it is also economically undesirable because it will paralyse any innovation. so i join my colleagues in calling on the commission to firmly enshrine the breeder's exemption in european patent law, or at least the limited breeder's exemption, which gives freedom to the whole process up to the point where you go to market and put a finished product on the market. it is therefore important to answer the specific questions put by mr belder and, if he cannot answer them himself, to have a colleague answer them in writing. we have already named a tulip in the netherlands after robert schuman, and that is a great honour for me on this european day. we also named a tulip after princess máxima. if the commission now sets about creating clarity in this area, who knows, commissioner, that will one day produce another 'tulip guchtiniana'. if i see you sitting like this, at least it'll be a nice pink one. i wish you the best.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. mr president, accountability of public resources is a major concern in the european union at the moment. we must also, especially in this time of austerity, give a very clear account at european level of all that we have achieved, in this case in the year 2010. i am also a member of the libe committee and i have looked at the various agencies and the committee's performance in this area for 2010. as far as we're concerned, we're headed in the right direction. there are many criticisms to be made, particularly in the area of agencies, but i dare say that the libe committee is going in the right direction - and i am entitled to say so. i have two questions to put to the commission. first of all, the question of sis i and sis ii. is there any more information on that at this time? how do these expenditures develop (especially since the system as such is lagging behind)? secondly, the external borders fund. i have the impression that there is also a certain under-spending at the moment. it is remarkable that on the one hand citizens say that the external borders need to be better guarded, and on the other hand there is under-spending.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - mr president, the role of parliament, as of any parliament, is to be the legislator, the voter and the policy monitor. we have those three functions. in the latter function, that of control of power, of control of the implementation of policy, we are much worse than in that of legislators or of voters. this is particularly true of our control of expenditure in the european development fund. it is a fund outside the eu budget, so much less transparent to us than the financing instrument for development cooperation. it is money that is spent outside the eu and that makes it even more invisible to us. we are still in a position to discharge it. that's very nice of us, but i don't think we should overestimate ourselves. the national parliaments do not carry out the control either. the european development fund should therefore be brought into the eu budget as soon as possible. that would strengthen our control capabilities. it's very unsatisfying to have to work like this. but if it is then brought into the eu budget, that should not be an excuse to reduce the whole of development money.
i am sorry to say that the danish presidency is not listening, but first of all i would like to welcome denmark to this house. it is the first time in many years that the council has been present. it is the seventeenth time in a row that we have had a negative report from the european court of auditors. that alone should be a reason for parliament not to grant discharge to the commission. i think there are few national parliaments which would be so co-operative with their governments as to prevent that. the trend is not in the right direction either. the european parliament has given many opinions over the years on how it could be improved. the role of the member states is essential. the commissioner said it: 80% of the money is spent by the member states. therefore, in the 2006 interinstitutional agreement, the european parliament clearly stated in article 44 that annual reports should be provided by the member states and then commented on by the commission. parliament could analyse this and start a dialogue with the commission on the improvements. for six years parliament has not been able to take note of these annual reports. that is most curious. if you have an agreement between three parties, it seems to me logical that those summaries should also be available to the three parties. i welcome the commission's statement, but unfortunately the commissioner did not make any reference to article 44 of the interinstitutional agreement. that article is essential. i am extremely sorry that he does not refer to it. he has made some progress, however. the commission's statement will affect the voting behaviour of the alde group, which is likely to be different from that in the commission's own budgetary control. they voted against it, but i'm keeping the surprise until the end.
president, the court of auditors recently produced excellent reports on the closure of 2010. the rapporteur, mr macovei, then made excellent comments on these reports by the court of auditors. unfortunately, it turned out that there was a lot wrong, especially with the agencies. today we are voting on a large number of amendments to those reports. the socialists are, as usual, against greater transparency, against greater control of expenditure, against calling the agencies to order. the dutch party d66 also seems to be in favour of this. the commission has tabled a number of amendments to undermine transparency and to delete as soon as possible the excellent findings and recommendations, in particular those concerning the agencies' fees. i can't believe this! ronald reagan once said , "some want to check government spending, others want to write government checks". the pvv prefers checking rather than spending more and more. i would therefore like to thank the court of auditors and the rapporteur for their good work and to express my disdain for the socialists and d66.
i would like to ask the president, ladies and gentlemen, who among you knows the executive director of the european environment agency, professor mcglade, personally? i ask because you, in your majority, are about to seriously question her integrity. this is despite the fact that year after year the european environment agency is seen as an example of how an agency should be run, that year after year the european court of auditors says that everything is right about the european environment agency, and that the environment agency itself has refuted all the allegations or has shown that they are simply not true. deferral of discharge is nothing more than a political motion of no confidence against the current director. i have to be honest. the only conflict of interest i see with professor mcglade is that between her incredible commitment of 20 hours a day to the agency and her personal health. because that's the only real conflict. the absence of any grounds for postponing discharge from the environment agency makes me wonder if there is a hidden agenda here. maybe the epa is too strong? is professor mcglade too good to be a principal? i hope that is not the case and i therefore urge the ppe, in particular, not to chase after ghosts but simply to give the european environment agency the discharge to which it is entitled.
president, the commission recently proposed an increase of 7% in the 2013 budget. it's not understandable. government leaders in greece, france and the netherlands have to leave because they have to cut back, but the european budget could increase by 7%? it's not understandable. there is another reason to be critical of the size of the european budget. the 2010 discharge showed that the budget was being spent irresponsibly by several agencies, as evidenced by the excellent work of the rapporteur. the environment agency in particular is proving to be a very bad place. as long as the agencies are not properly accountable, we must suspend the discharge to those agencies. at the same time, i would say that the accountability of the european parliament's budget is also below par. as long as meps can spend €4 300 per month on general expenses without being held accountable, this parliament should refrain from condemning other european institutions.
in writing. - i do not support the fjellner report. the european court of auditors notes that the number of errors has increased over 2010 in the policy area which has had the highest error rate for many years, namely the structural funds, the so-called cohesion policy. the european parliament's report makes a number of justified requests to the european commission. i am glad, for example, that my amendment was adopted, which calls for the emergency fund to be checked for legality, regularity and effectiveness of expenditure. a missed opportunity, on the other hand, is that the granting of discharge is not made conditional on progress in the national declarations. they make member states more aware of their responsibility to handle the eu money they manage with care. this would help to reduce the error rate, as a substantial proportion of errors could have been prevented or corrected if member states had been sufficiently alert. it is a shame that ministers from countries in difficulty are turning down the invitation from the european parliament to talk about improvement. the good requests in the report can only be enforced by the european commission by postponing the granting of discharge. i regret that the committee on budgetary control has not taken this step.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, criminal law is not just a subject. penalties are a restriction on the fundamental rights of the accused and the convicted. you have to be careful with that. of course, restrictions on fundamental rights are justified in certain circumstances, but they must be justified on the basis of good reasons, as laid down in international human rights instruments and the charter of fundamental rights. there are two threats, broadly speaking. first of all, we are the politicians. the media, more than ever, is devoting extensive attention to speaking crimes. lawyers are sometimes even more frequently on camera than politicians, and the prosecution and the judiciary today also employ an army of forgers. politicians may try to catch up by enacting new laws that either expand or redefine the crime, or increase the penalty. if they succeed in convincing their european colleagues that this legislation should be introduced throughout europe, they will have succeeded in their eyes. but it's not supposed to be like this. criminal law is not designed to be a short-term success story. before you agree to new criminal definitions or increase penalties, you should have thought carefully about the consequences. is it really bringing more criminals to justice and rehabilitation, and is public opinion still interested in these harsher punishments in the long term, or was this an incidental shock to society that could also be offset by better enforcement of existing law? the second threat, unfortunately, comes from brussels. we are used to making full use of the powers conferred on the eu by the series of treaties. the treaty lists a number of offences for which minimum harmonization is desirable. in addition, the eu may also harmonise minimum levels of crime as necessary for the implementation of already harmonised eu policies. this leaves a lot of room for manoeuvre, and i can think of a reason for any crime to be dealt with at european level. the same convention, however, also respects national traditions and cultural differences, which are reflected in criminal law. the emergency procedure, which is specifically provided for by criminal law and by which a member state may oppose harmonisation if it is contrary to the fundamental principles laid down in its constitution, is the procedural consequence of this. there is a tension between the two components, the broad powers and the restraint and respect for national traditions. that is why we cannot follow the same path in criminal law as in other areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my report now makes it clear that in the field of criminal law, symbolism, that is, political hype, is not to be tolerated. before harmonization can be implemented, a test framework must be established which demonstrates the added value of harmonization through statistical data and, moreover, makes it clear that there are no other less intrusive solutions available outside the criminal law. and, in addition, human rights are still the decisive factor. this too will have to be explicitly checked at all times. equally important is the safeguarding of consistency and coherence. this will require special measures from all eu institutions, including the european parliament. the libe committee has no right to coordinate, but fragmented criminal law is bad criminal law. i thank all my colleagues on the libe committee for their overwhelming support for this report. we hope that we will have to develop these rules further in an interinstitutional working party with the commission and the council. i am confident that together we will succeed in ensuring that future criminal law rules are only introduced when they are absolutely necessary and that they continue to be of high quality.
rapporteur. − madam president, it is a great pleasure to be presenting to you today my third report on the situation of women in turkey, which presents a strategy towards 2020 and is inspired by the gender aspect of europe 2020. in preparing my report i spoke to various ministers, members of parliament, women’s ngos and many others, such as young university students. of all these meetings, the one that affected me the most was the meeting i had with arzu, a woman who was staying in the shelter. her story has helped me in evaluating the law on the protection of women from violence. i will come back to that. in my report i have made a call for zero tolerance for violence against women. the report indicates what needs to be done about violence and stresses that, without good implementation, even the best laws cannot protect women, so i put forward suggestions to ensure that the law is strictly applied. more shelters are needed. the existing shelters should be made safer, and the personnel must be better trained. there should be vocational courses offered to women in the shelters. this is important, because many of the women who have been victims of violence are housewives or, like arzu, have lost their jobs because their ex-husbands also attacked them at their places of work. arzu was continually beaten up by her husband even after obtaining a divorce. the law which was in effect at that time did not protect victims who were not married. it must be made clear to turkey that the law protects women, regardless of the relationship between the victim and the perpetrator. many positive developments are also taking place in turkey. the ankara prosecutor’s office has established a specialised bureau dealing solely with violence against women, which is very successful. we need more of these in turkish cities and rural areas. the gender gap in primary education has been closed, but there are worries concerning the new education reform. the new system should not jeopardise the successes achieved so far concerning the schooling of girls. the percentage of women in the labour market has risen to around 30%, but more needs to be done on issues such as childcare and maternity leave to further increase this ratio. trade union activities should also be made more accessible for women. in my report i ask for a new law on political parties and elections which would establish a temporary mandatory quota system ensuring the fair representation of women in electoral lists. in order to successfully make the necessary changes, a change in mentality is needed. women are not only mothers or members of a family, they are individuals. this must be made crystal clear. the commission is actively engaged in improving women’s rights in turkey. last week, during the launch of the positive agenda, commissioner füle once more highlighted the importance of women’s rights within the positive agenda, as well as the importance of chapter 23 negotiations on this subject. indeed, in order to give the eu more leverage in the area of women’s rights, chapter 23 negotiations should be opened. i want strongly to underline the importance of the commission and turkey continuing to promote of women’s rights in turkey and to place women’s rights at the heart of the accession negotiations. finally, i would like to thank everyone, especially the shadow rapporteurs, who have contributed to the drafting of this report.
mr president, i would like to begin with a more positive tone than the wailing i heard this morning. i was preparing for the debate on one of those projects in which european structural funds are used to preserve industrial heritage and to provide the opportunity for new businesses to be set up, etc. four hundred jobs were created in two years, and eventually about a thousand jobs were created. the point is to bring together existing instruments, with the use of private capital, with local and regional authorities. that is why i have three questions to the commissioner and the minister. first of all: can we not put forward the financial framework for 2014-2020, which we are talking about now, and which will also release new funds, revolving funds? there will be a council, an informal council, there will be a summit. shouldn't it be a political message? a signal to clarify section 1 of the mfk. it's gonna make money again. secondly: can you not ask every country to come up with a real action plan for smes? why do you have to? because some countries still have their own bureaucracies. after all, we can improve things, cut red tape. for example, prefinancing of projects is still a major problem. the banks won't do it, the companies don't have the money. we need to draw a line through that and create a dynamic. can i have an answer to those three questions?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, ukraine is at a crossroads. the country could either go the same way as belarus, which would mean that there is no longer only one ‘last dictatorship’ in europe but two (and there may be other contenders for that, mr landsbergis), or ukraine could develop into a modern democracy. this is also possible, because today ukraine is not belarus and should not develop that way. with regard to the rule of law, i must say that indeed there is probably some progress, but it must materialise. this means that the timoshenko case is a test case. there are other cases, but we should use this case to see whether progress is being made or not. it is true that mrs timoshenko is being treated better than before, but this should not be the end of the case. the court of cassation should be free, fair, open and transparent in the revision of court cases. if you look further, the way homosexuals were treated in a demonstration – which had to be cancelled – is a bad thing. ukraine should accept that everybody is equal. the fact that there is a law before the rada saying that homosexuality should not be propagated is a bad thing, because education on this issue should be transparent, free and fair. again, ukraine should change in this respect. as the commissioner said, the coming elections – whether they are free or fair – are also a benchmark. i am not in favour of a boycott of the european football championship. why not? we are having these discussions because of the championship in the same way that we talked about human rights in china because of the olympic games. we should use the opportunity; those who represent their countries in ukraine should use the opportunity to draw the attention to the human rights situation. ukraine need not become like belarus. let us help her not to do so.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask the speaker whether, if the party of regions cannot bring about change in the system in ukraine, the socialists and the social democrats will change their policy and put real pressure on that party. in other words, what would the consequences be?
president, although the problem of ukraine is not that of yulia tymoshenko, her case is a political one. what are the problems? the commission's report last week showed that: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is in the process of doing so. the increasingly poor treatment of prisoners and a growing anti-gay climate, an anti-gay climate that now threatens to be even enshrined in law. i therefore call on the ukrainian parliament to reject this law. ukraine must break away from the culture of political reckoning, because today's perpetrators are tomorrow's victims, and vice versa. and this culture is all about maintaining power and not about using power to move the country forward. mr. president, next month the world will be watching ukraine for the european football championship. but unfortunately the cameras will not only be focused on the field, but also on the political institutions in kiev, the prisons across the country and on the tymoshenko case in particular. i sincerely hope that next month the world will be talking about players like shevchenko and timochuk, and not about timochenko and loetschenko. but only the yanukovych regime can provide that. the necessary political changes will not only lead to a successful football championship, but also, in my view, to a successful association agreement.
mr president, today we are talking about the situation in ukraine, but some are trying to water down the debate on whether or not to boycott the european football championships. but what we should really be talking about is the deficiencies of a consistent, strong and strict eu policy. we have tools at our disposal – the association agreements and the european neighbourhood policy – to influence positive developments in the relevant countries. last week the annual package on neighbourhood policy was published. ukraine is the country in which we have achieved the most progress – but then why is it that today, ukraine seems further from eu values than ever? just last weekend the gay pride parade could not take place due to extremists. we should ensure that ‘more for more’ is put into practice. respect for the rule of law and democratic values are priorities of the association agenda. if partner countries want to benefit, they should respect these values. we should make our policy clear, as well as the consequences of not complying with the priorities of the association agenda.
in writing. - the report is technically flawless and it is good for countries to work together to fight crossborder crime. but member states must determine their own criminal law and, above all, their own level of punishment. europe must not interfere in this. we should have made that message clearer today as the european parliament and as representatives of the people. i particularly disagree with recitals g and m, which speak of harmonization in criminal law.
in writing. - violence against women, suicide, honour killings, rape, forced marriages: these horrors are commonplace in turkey. it is therefore totally incomprehensible that the report dares not mention islam as the cause of women's oppression. any reference to islam is fearfully denied and swept under the carpet. the european parliament has deleted the paragraph dealing with the problem of illegal muslim marriages. the european parliament has repeatedly condemned the violence in the country and has called for the immediate release of the hostages. the ep is blinded by the self-created multicultural utopia which is being tried to maintain against its better judgment. this is unacceptable. the pvv will abstain because the problem of women's oppression in turkey is mentioned, but not the cause of it.
the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. i have respect for countries like ireland, portugal, spain and italy for their efforts, but also respect for a country in a very different part of europe: poland, our growth star in eastern europe. president. - we are making progress, but the situation is still very fragile and the growth engine is failing. that is why we must do everything we can to safeguard our social market economy. to tackle unemployment and especially the unacceptably high youth unemployment and also to ensure a strong sme as a major job engine for our economy. that's urgent, and that's why we have to be creative. it is also to safeguard our social model for the future. mr president, our group is in favour of economic growth built on a solid foundation; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. to focus on just spending more money and increasing our debt, that is not our course, because then we shift the burden onto the future generation. growth is not a magic bullet that will allow us to avoid painful and sometimes unpopular measures. no, if we really tackle the issues now, then we can provide perspective and regain trust. that's our commitment. our group is in favour of concrete solutions, and that means reforms to restore the health of public finances and reforms to restore the health of the foundations of our economy. this is also clearly reflected in the oecd report published today: that must be a significant effort. these reforms can be painful, but they make money in the long run rather than cost money. the first and foremost priority is competitiveness. it is precisely when we restore them that we can regain a strong position in the export market, provide jobs for our people and also ensure economic growth. i would also like to mention in particular - as i have just said - youth unemployment. the commission is also proposing to give young people a second chance, including the setting of binding targets in the member states. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment and sustainable development. president. - we must continue with the reforms. continue the effort on the basis of the six-pack, the stability and growth pact and macroeconomic surveillance, with the commission for the first time having a heavy role in assessing member states' plans. commission, i would urge you to be ambitious. show good examples, but also point out where there are shortcomings and where more effort is needed. the second spearhead for the ppe group is our internal market. president. - mr president, we have heard the new french president hollande talk about growth, but not about the concrete reforms he intends to introduce in france to restore the health of the french economy. we have not heard from president hollande how he intends to promote the single market. that alone can produce 2% economic growth per year, and we must do more to improve that, in the interests of the 500 million consumers in europe. a lot of potential remains untapped. i am glad, commissioner, that you mention the european patent, because we really have to work on that very quickly. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. we also know that in many areas european legislation is in order, but that it is lacking in implementation. the infringement procedures also: they're too slow and too predatory. perhaps we should also be much more active in reporting in the context of the european semester; i am not going to go into the details of the report, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the report, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the report. the bureaucracy is also important in connection with the internal market. it needs to be addressed. an additional 25%. the third priority of our group is to increase investment which actually contributes to growth. research and innovation, investment in infrastructure, the use of unspent european funds, the role of the european investment bank, today rather than tomorrow, including project bonds. i hope we can get started on that very quickly. i would like to wish you, mr president, much wisdom, also tomorrow and in the run-up to the european council. we are at your side to make these priorities come true.
president, following the g8, mrs merkel will be put under pressure tomorrow to agree to the new growth agenda, that is to say, to pump a lot of money into the economy. i don't think that's wise. loading guilt on guilt is unwise. i advocate a different growth agenda, one that will increase opportunities for business: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, such as reducing corporate taxation, favourable depreciation on investments, good and accessible education in top sectors and a higher retirement age. the euro policy must also be reconsidered, without taboos. more borrowing, for example through the esm, is putting countries like greece and spain deeper into trouble. i am missing an analysis and a study on the adjustment of the monetary union, with the southern countries remaining in the euro and the northern countries opting for a euro market. such an approach could prove to be very supportive, as was the case for argentina and slovakia when their currency unions broke up. then came the real years of growth for them.
in writing. sound public finances and timely implementation of structural reforms are necessary conditions for sustainable economic growth. some member states have shown good examples of this. the netherlands recently. it is true that growth-enhancing measures can have a positive effect on the economy and on employment. but not by spending more government money, which increases deficits. we must reform and cut unnecessary regulatory pressure, including european pressure. and by collecting taxes effectively and spending the resources available smarter and better. i ask the council to commit itself to ambitious objectives in these areas at the informal summit. this can promote growth and employment without increasing the deficit.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the previous topic here was the eurozone crisis and setting up the stability mechanism. we have a rescue fund, and i was just wondering: should we not perhaps give a tax discount to lgbt people? they represent 5 to 10% of the european population, they contribute to our economy, to the rescue fund and to bailing out countries in the eurozone, and yet they do not get the same rights as other eu citizens. they do not get the same protection and services from their governments, so perhaps we should not ask them to pay the same. i am being a bit ironic as that, of course, is not the solution. the solution is that we start, at both eu and member state level, to give the same protection and the same rights to all eu citizens. it is time for the european union to deliver. i am actually very glad and proud to be a member of this house, which has really become a champion of lgbt rights, and i very much welcome the first ever resolution dedicated to homophobia. mr busuttil, i very much welcome the support and the cooperation of the epp group, because i think that the cross-party support for this resolution sends a very strong signal to our own countries’ governments as well as to the governments of the countries mentioned: russia, moldova and the many other countries which treat lgbt people very badly. my final point is about the hate speech of opinion leaders, political leaders and religious leaders. that is not innocent and not innocuous. it contributes to a climate of hatred, intolerance and violence. finally, i would like to say – also to mr busuttil – that discrimination is not necessarily less bad than homophobia. if we tolerate discrimination and unequal treatment, we send a signal that some people are less equal than we are, and that justifies homophobia. so, colleagues, i ask everybody to wholeheartedly endorse the resolution tomorrow.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. one of the points of concern was the law limiting a family to heterosexual families. just one example of a government that is signaling that it is on the side of the homophobes. in an increasing number of eastern european countries, laws are actually making it impossible to speak about gay and bisexual or transgender issues in public in a positive way or even to hold gay pride events. the very governments that are now promoting homophobia should be setting the right example. lgbt people need good role models, like politicians who are open about their sexual orientation. we all promised at idaho last week that things would get better. the reality is that in many european countries it has only got worse, and it is up to all of us to make sure that it really gets better. by supporting people who risk their necks in a less safe room than this european parliament, and by telling the truth to governments who support homophobia. vice-president reding, we can only address such governments if we have our own affairs in order within the european union. i am therefore disappointed by your reply to my written questions, in which you said that you do not intend to develop proposals for the recognition of full equality of rights for same-sex couples when they take advantage of the freedom of movement. perhaps you could send a more positive signal today. we'll understand each other again.
president, last sunday i was in ukraine, where i was hoping to join the first-ever kiev pride with the brave people who are risking their necks for gay rights. unfortunately, the pride had to be cancelled because more than 500 nationalist extremists threatened the participants and the police were unable, or perhaps unwilling, to protect them. and that's not all. ukraine is also considering two draft laws that would ban information about homosexuality and make life even more difficult for gays and lesbians in the country. ukraine, and also moldova, where i was the weekend before, are european countries that like to have european ties. they want free trade, free travel without visas. i would ask the commission to make it very clear that free trade and free travel go hand in hand with freedom for all their citizens, whatever their sexual orientation.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance mr president, we cannot bypass china, and commissioner de gucht knows all about that from his experience. but we shouldn't want to. it is our second trading partner, the second largest economy in the world, and it has been experiencing strong, admirable growth for years. this opens up unprecedented opportunities for european businesses. i am also concerned, however, and i see this reflected in the solid report by mr de sarnez. european companies face many obstacles in the chinese market. the chinese ambitions to overcome these barriers do not seem to be high. i therefore urge both partners to make this work. reciprocity - which has been mentioned many times here tonight - must be the key word in the relationship. at the same time, the commission should continue to press china to respect its wto obligations, level the playing field for european companies, protect intellectual property and eliminate other trade barriers, such as limited access to raw materials. i wish commissioner de gucht a lot of perseverance in his negotiations and in his fight for a level playing field with the chinese trading partners.
the netherlands is sick of it. this sham parliament wants to strip the netherlands to the bone. the esm treaty will cost the netherlands up to 40 billion euros. the eurobonds will also cost billions of euros a year and will make the netherlands jointly liable for greek and spanish debts. and today we're going to talk about yet another trick to take money from the dutch: the financial transaction fee. this will cost the netherlands up to 4 billion a year. our pension funds are going to bleed, and eventually our citizens will pay for it. the netherlands is sick and tired of the money-eating european union. barroso and the commission have made a mess of it. europe is in ruins and the netherlands is paying the bill. and the bad thing is that most of my dutch colleagues still agree with it. the vvd, the cda, the pvda, the green left and d66 are all ready to hand over our wallets and our sovereignty to the failing brussels bureaucrats. but we're not going to. in the forthcoming dutch elections on 12 september, the dutch people will vote en masse against europe, against the esm, against european taxes, against eurobonds and against all this waste of money. dutch people don't take orders.
in writing. − i abstained on the vote on this report. this is a better and improved recovery plan for the bluefin tuna, compared to the previous one. it allows for less catches and is based on the recommendations of iccat, taking into consideration all the scientific data available and accordingly all the necessary concrete measures (i.e. spawning areas). it would of course be better if no catches at all were allowed for this over-fished species, but i felt this is at least a step towards better fishing practices and sustainability.
in writing. - a tax on financial transactions is undesirable. that is why i tabled an amendment rejecting the proposal. unfortunately, the econ committee did not agree. in the amendment i referred to the analysis of the dutch court of auditors. it estimates that the cost to dutch banks, insurance companies and pension funds will be at least four billion, or 0.61% of gross domestic product. that is a large sum in view of the austerity measures which our member states are now undertaking. consumer spending and business investment are already under great pressure. it costs a lot of money and with it jobs and growth. the tax burden must not be increased unnecessarily. let alone the need for a european tax, part of the proceeds of which would go to the european union, and ultimately be paid by citizens and businesses. this is an unwise proposal and i therefore vote against it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a number of member states are against the tax. let those member states keep their feet to the grindstone.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of the proposal for a financial transaction tax. the sp is in favour of the introduction of such a tax. the sp, however, is against the eu receiving the proceeds. i would therefore like to stress that the revenue from this tax should be paid to the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the final vote on the podimata report. i support the idea of a financial transaction tax as a way of making financial institutions pay for the economic crisis, for example through a tobin tax, the proceeds of which are used to support development and to combat climate change. the big problem with this report is that it proposes that the proceeds of the tax go to the eu, which is unacceptable. the taxation of goods is a competence of the member states and should remain so. the revenue from any tax on financial transactions should be used for the benefit of the member states themselves.
i have heard my colleagues and the council representative, and i have a feeling that it is not certain. i have a feeling there's a preaching for your own parish. i have not heard anyone disagree with me, from the council to my colleagues, and i must say that we are all very concerned about the situation in sudan and south sudan. of course, i welcome the unanimous approval by the un security council of the road map for peace between sudan and south sudan, and the commitment by south sudan to withdraw its troops from abyei. but what are we getting out of it right now? i'm actually afraid that we're going to end up in a protracted process, which we might compare to eritrea and ethiopia: i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that the commission is aware of the situation in the gulf, and that it is not the commission's intention to go into the details of the situation, but the commission's intention to go into the details of the situation. the rainy season is coming to south sudan, and the consequence is that 60% of the country is completely inaccessible. the roads are impassable, and the food supply for the population will have to be in order before then. we can talk about the road map, we can talk about a long process, but how do we solve the problem of people getting food right away? another signal that south sudan is not ready for its mission to give its people a good future is the fact that it has now stopped selling oil. i understand the reason for that, but if you're running out of money and you're not able to do your own shopping, what does that say? what's in it for you? your population to feed, or the border conflict with sudan. our task in this area, i think, is to ensure that south sudan is able to conduct itself in a proper manner again and also to have a market for its oil.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the nuba mountains. the area has been virtually sealed off from the outside world for months, in a stranglehold by the sudanese forces. under great hardship, the civilian population is trying to survive in mountain caves. meanwhile, a large number of nuba refugees are also in juba refugee camp in south sudan. the image of this tiny state is equally bleak; see an internal report by the world bank. that is a dramatic situation. why is independent south sudan so disappointing its international friends and donors here as well? the answer is as simple as it is shocking: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the complete shutdown of oil production since january 2012 (98% of state revenues), combined with cronyism and widespread corruption, supports this distressing observation. already, about half of south sudanese live below the poverty line, and the forecast for 2013 is even 83%. my question to the european union, and therefore also to my own dutch government, which will be visiting soon: president salva kiir will he be given a clear warning from his european donors? because where's the money?
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i should like to begin by mentioning a few figures which are probably dreamt of by those present here but not by many outside. that we have nine billion people on the planet in 2050, that we're seeing a doubling of the middle-income population to three billion in 15 years, that we need a planet and a half now for our consumption, and three planets in the future -- and we don't have that. that commodity prices have risen 150% in the last ten years, and that's with an economy addicted to cheap commodities. this is costing our economy billions, no, hundreds of billions more a year. so what we need in europe is an action plan, a concrete action plan to address this. the commission's road map, for which i would like to congratulate commissioner potočnik, is an excellent initiative. the commission's analysis and approach are very good. but what i still think is lacking is a higher degree of urgency and concreteness, and that is precisely what we are making clear as a parliament. that is not only the content of the report, it is also the structure of the report, in which we have identified six top priorities in the committee on the environment. i'd like to run through all six of them. first of all, mr president, it is very important that we come up with a joint action plan with industry to make europe much more efficient in its use of raw materials. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. the second top priority, mr president, is that we really need to move towards a single market for recycling and reuse. it should be easier to spread waste containing valuable raw materials across the border. the tax incentives for the use of secondary raw materials are also linked to this. secondary raw materials must ultimately be cheaper than primary raw materials, and this also requires fiscal incentives. the third priority, mr president, is to encourage research and development. we need to develop alternatives, we need to help the recycling industry to go even further in professionalizing. fourthly, we must extend the ecodesign directive. it's now focused on energy, but we also need to make sure that the raw materials that are in the products are more easily recoverable, and that starts with the design. fifthly, we need to integrate the concept, the idea of resource efficiency into the other policy areas; in agriculture, where we have to be much more efficient with water, in fisheries, and so on. and the sixth top priority is that europe should develop clear indicators and, as far as parliament is concerned, based on the footprint idea. measurement is knowing, and that's essential. mr president, as i have worked on this subject for some time, i have noticed that this is not primarily an environmental agenda. this is an economic agenda. we need to be more resource efficient if we are to sustain our economy in the future. i have already mentioned the hundreds of billions of euros that the rise in commodity prices costs industry every year. that is the real agenda, and that is why i am so surprised that the council - unfortunately not here - does not give a damn. that the council is not showing enough ambition to really get this action plan across europe, to move towards a much more efficient use of raw materials.
i have to say that i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. at one point, one element was broken and i couldn't get the element repaired. it didn't even exist, and that kettle was actually still in good shape. but because we live in a throwaway society, buying a new kettle - not a very nice one, by the way - was cheaper. it's not supposed to be like this. we want to get rid of that. it is good that we are talking here once again about the finiteness of the earth and its resources, because it is still true, as the club of rome said in 1972 in its famous report 'limits to growth'. so now we're in 2012, 40 years later, and it's still the same, and it will be the same in 40 years. in short, it is time we did something about it, and got real. because in the last two years, we've presented at least two strategies for this: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. so ultimately, it's important that we start to integrate this into our society, and not in the way that people just have to put on extra sweaters in the winter or consume less, but in a way that appeals to everyone and ultimately leads to the efficiency that we're all talking about. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is often new models that prove to be leading edge and not new technology. so that's really what we need to focus on. better labelling, clearer and not five different labels: one for fair trade and the other for energy efficiency. can i please see at a glance what kind of product it is? improve the management of recyclable materials so that they do not end up in landfills or in incinerators. from abstract to concrete: europe's ecological footprint now covers ten football fields, and soon, with all the people there in 2050, there will only be one football field available for all the things we need - our energy, food and materials. so we have to be very, very fast. if i may give you one more example: in 2006, fertilizer cost $200, and now it costs $600. triple the price in six years. the urgency seems very clear to me. we have to do something. - right now. and not just for the environment, but for the economy, indeed.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report. i looked up some financial statements from multinational corporations. akzonobel, a large multinational company, reports in its annual report: the greater rise in commodity prices has cost them a billion in profits. so a billion less profit due to higher commodity prices. in dsm's annual report, the company explicitly states that one of the major problems is the increase in the cost of raw materials, and that they have been able to pass on the higher prices to consumers so far, but that this is also becoming a major problem for dsm. unilever annual report higher commodity prices cost a profit of 2.5 billion last year. there, too, a multinational that indicates that the challenge of the future is: how do we deal with the dwindling of our natural resources? that's the schedule. that is not just a green agenda, that is also an economic agenda. does that mean that all the companies are really working on it right now? research shows that in the netherlands only one in five companies is working on a strategy on how to deal with these higher raw material prices. only one in five! in short, companies are still not sufficiently aware of the need to take a real look at how we are dealing with our natural resources. that's the whole point. in this sense we welcome the commission's programme, which sets out the right themes: how are we going to meet this challenge? by shifting the burden of labour to the raw materials, by looking at whether we are fixing tax amounts correctly, by implementing existing regulations, for example the waste directive. by integrating this policy into other policy areas, such as the agricultural policy we have in europe, and by working on good objectives and indicators. good texts, good agenda, but now is the time to take real action. that's what's gonna be important now. this green efficient economy could be the way out of the current economic crisis, but then we have to take it seriously. how are we going to look at the waste sector, for example? it's going to be crucial. how are we going to look at our agricultural policy? the efficient management of nutrients, for example phosphate, is not part of the agricultural reform. that's a big miss right now. we should look at this now, because ultimately it is about managing our resources efficiently, which is our future green economy. and that is also the only economy that we have to go to as europe.
mr president, today we are dealing with the gerbrandy report on resource inefficiency. mr gerbrandy comes up with beautiful words and sentences, but as usual says nothing at all. he talks about a paradigm shift, a circular economy, and wants to push resource efficiency from a life-cycle perspective towards a more ambitious agenda. mr. chairman, i have no idea what direction mr. gerbrandy is trying to take this whole thing, but one thing is clear: it's going to make his environmental friends money. a lot of money, and that's simply called political clientelism. he also spoke of a landfill tax, a waste hierarchy and a european external waste policy, including the waste acquis. will baroness ashton be supervising our waste disposal in the member states herself? it doesn't get much crazier. let it be clear that the ppe is for a sensible use of resources, but that is what every sensible person has been for a long time. we do not need the idiotic proposals of mr gerbrandy for that. mr president, what is to be done about this absurd report? suddenly i knew. mr gerbrandy is talking about a strict end-of-waste criterion. the report by mr gerbrandy is going to do that. i'm going to move the report now to waste recycling and add it to this cylindrical archive. - of which i have a record. (the president declared the request for a 'blue card' question to be answered) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, i understand that mr hartong has not quite understood the direction i am taking. that's because i want to go in a circular direction. maybe that made him a little dizzy. he blames me for environmental goals. but you see, for example, we spend 20 billion euros a year on copper in europe. ten years ago, it was only 6 billion. is that an environmental agenda to deal with that more efficiently, or is that an economic agenda? and do you support it?
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. i wonder if it was a question at all, or more of a comment. i think you're getting so locked into your ivory tower of thinking that it's becoming very, very difficult to break through. of course, as i said in my speech, we support the fact that we must be careful with our raw materials, but not in the way that your party advocates.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, mr leinen, you are talking about new business models. i have just mentioned that it is not always the technology that is decisive, but sometimes new business models. can you imagine that, for example, that is a leasing model, where you no longer buy products, but rent, and in that way organize a service company, where the ownership of the product remains with the producer and in that way it also goes back to the producer? do you think that this will strengthen the circular society?
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues for the very broad support for my report. that's very good for me. i've listened carefully and i've noticed a very broad consensus about the end goal: the more efficient use of resources. but we do not always agree on the route, and especially not on the pace at which we should do it. i want to say this about that: the speed we can afford is not determined by ourselves. we are not determining that in europe, but by the pace of the world around us. and let 's face it . the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. there's been some criticism of eco-design. i have something to say about that. the text we are discussing today and voting on tomorrow is not a legislative text. this is a political text. a political text which sets out the main lines of our future policy. it is not therefore a detailed discussion of how to apply an ecodesign directive, but rather of the fact that we must also take into account the need to recover the raw materials used in the design of our products. that's the whole point. so not about a legislative text. i think the most important thing about this report, mr president, is that we as a parliament have sent a very strong political message, in which we also support the commission in continuing on the path it has embarked on. not just to go on, but to go on with an even more ambitious agenda than mr potočnik's. it is about implementation and it is about legislation. it seems in the discussion today that it's either/or; no, it's both. we need to do better implementation, but we also need to do better legislation. mr president, my very last word is on the council. let this be a very strong signal from the european parliament and the commission to the member states that we have an ambitious agenda and we want to move forward. not just because we like it so much, but because it is so necessary for the european economy. just as financial markets do not wait for our government leaders to finish saving the euro, the world does not wait for us to decide to be more efficient with our resources. we must do it now, today, not tomorrow and the day after.
mr president, 55 years ago, equal pay for men and women was enshrined as the first fundamental right in our union. now, 55 years later, the pay gap is still unacceptably large. we're not doing something right, you'd think. a fundamental right is not enough in itself to change practice. for example, employers need to be much more transparent about salaries, so that women know when they're earning less than their male colleagues. salaries should be based on responsibilities and skills, not how hard you negotiate or how much you golf with the boss. labour inspectorates need to be much more rigorous in checking for pay disparities. and after 55 years, it is high time that we as the european union started enforcing that. i would very much like to hear from the commission when it intends to make a response.
welcome, commissioner, and thank you very much for your report, mrs bauer. according to recent data, women in the eu still earn 16.4% less than men for equal work, and legislation has been in place for 40 years to close the gap. however, in some member states the gap seems to be widening. in a so-called emancipated country like the netherlands, the average is even above the eu average. this wage gap is not just bad for the period that women work; we're also building up a lot less pension because of the wage gap. a staggering 22% of all women have an income near the poverty line after the age of 65. with the eu's non-social pension schemes now also aiming to cut state pensions, the number of older women in trouble will only increase. we have to act now. equal pay for men and women and pension schemes which worsen the position of women must be dropped. it is the only way to achieve a just standard of living for all: old and young, man and woman.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia. wherever you go as a swiss - east, west, north, south - within a few hours you are always in the eu. of course, switzerland wants good relations with the eu: the eu is committed to free trade, free travel, free work, and of course the eu wants good relations with switzerland. that is why we have a treaty to deal with that, but that treaty is clearly lacking. a provision in it seems to be abused by switzerland to create a dichotomy between the eu citizens who are welcome and the eu citizens who are not. this is simply discrimination against central and eastern europeans, and it is simply unacceptable. i hope the commission will find a way to put an end to this. we cannot accept any distinction between eu citizens. every human being in our union is of equal value and has the same fundamental rights. that is the basis of everything and that is what we must defend to the utmost.
mr president, the european policy of open borders is increasingly free movement of criminals. the netherlands also has to deal with criminal central and eastern europeans. in amsterdam, 90% of the suspects are not from the netherlands, but from poland, romania, lithuania or bulgaria. i asked the commission to look at these figures, but the commission refused. but it is clear to everyone that open borders bring problems. in 2004, the commission was cheering when countries were admitted that were not ready. the commission and this parliament do not want to see the problems. switzerland, on the other hand, sees problems arise and acts, and in so doing sets an example for us all. switzerland is sovereign, switzerland has a reliable currency, switzerland has little corruption and, by banning minarets, has shown that its democracy works. the swiss still have a choice and switzerland can still defend the interests of its citizens. i therefore call on the commission to respect the decision of switzerland, to look again at the figures from amsterdam and to face the problems of open borders.
in writing. the pvv fully supports the principle of 'equal pay for equal work'. men and women should be paid equally for the same work. what the pvv opposes is the involvement of the unelected and undemocratic european commission in the national policies of member states. this report seeks to impose eu legislation on member states, whereas member states are best placed to formulate policies to tackle pay discrimination themselves. the pvv will abstain for these reasons.
author. − mr president, as the eurovision finalists warm up their voices and practise their dance routines, the voices of the people in azerbaijan are muffled. much as the authorities may want to make the eurovision song contest the ‘great azerbaijan show’, the world is not blinded by glitter, glamour and propaganda. we are very concerned at the ongoing violations of human rights in azerbaijan, and polished statements from the government do not convince. it is only actions that speak. today, two vice-chairs of the müsavat party, a member of liberal international, tofiq yaqublu and gulaga aslanli, were detained in the streets of baku. only one in six vice-chairs has not been arrested. an advisor of the party leader is under house arrest; people are being threatened by the authorities; anar gerayli has been missing for two days. arif hajili and tural abbasli and various other human rights activists and members of the opposition have been detained for over a year. these people are recognised as prisoners of conscience by amnesty international and to them i want to say: ‘we will not forget you.’ to the azeri authorities i want to say: ‘live up to your responsibilities to respect human rights, and adhere to your commitments in the osce framework and in the context of the association agreement. do you want to be a part of the eu neighbourhood policy or not?’ azerbaijan will have no credibility with the eu if it does not stick to its agreements: full stop!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in baku last month i had the opportunity to ask president aliyev about his plans for improving the situation with regard to democracy, human rights and freedom of the media in his country, especially as we look towards the eurovision song contest this week. with astonishing self-confidence, he answered me that there was no reason to improve the situation because it was already perfect. to be honest, i am not surprised by his self-confidence because, let us face it, the world, including the eu, is interested in azerbaijan only because of gas and oil and important pipelines to uzbekistan and kazakhstan; we are not interested in the people of azerbaijan. commissioner füle may have criticised the azeri human rights situation, but two weeks later president barroso was in baku, and he did not mention human rights once. he was talking only about energy. so, is the message from the eu ‘never mind human rights – energy is what it’s all about’? if we continue to let energy interests take democracy and human rights hostage, the situation in azerbaijan will never improve. let us be honest: in the long term, the eu also secures its energy interests much better by fighting for a stable democracy in azerbaijan than by supporting the current regime of president aliyev.
commissioner, thank you for the report, which i think is timely, and thank you for your cooperation in this. it's really about large amounts of damage, if you look at what's happening in the world: i have recently heard the commission say that the amount of aid is 388 billion dollars. in the netherlands alone, the damage caused by internet banking fraud amounted to eur 93 million in 2011. the damage is greater than that caused by the trade in soft and hard drugs. in short: so it's important to bring this up and work together on it. can i just highlight one thing in my minute? the hague cybercrime centre, which will be hosted by europol; the centre will be involved in the fight against organised crime, credit card data crime, cooperation on identity theft, including with social networks, the prevention of the production of child pornography and protection against attacks on critical infrastructure. these are the things that the citizen is paying attention to.
president. - the member states have decided to take responsibility for safe borders again. the european parliament will no longer play a role. mr verhofstadt, speaking on behalf of d66 and the vvd, called this decision a declaration of war. but it is the european parliament that is waging war against the member states. this parliament has done nothing to stop the flow of illegals. this parliament does not want to see the problems of crossborder crime. the member states are choosing security, and so is this parliament. the member states vote for the citizens and thus against this parliament. the fact that parliament is opposed to this choice only shows that the member states are very wise. mr president, the member states must take much more policy back to where it belongs, namely to the national parliaments, the real representatives of the people. this parliament, mr president, must dissolve itself. not only is it much cheaper, but it would be a step towards peace and security.
the agreements reached here have proved to be worthless, mr president, if countries do not respect them. spain even seems to have used blackmail to get the 100 billion euros. according to bloomberg, spain threatened in the following words: "if you want to force a bailout for spain start preparing 500 billion euros and another 700 billion euros for italy which will have to be bailed out after us". is it true, mr president, that this was said during the negotiations on the 100 billion euro for spain? it explains at least why spain will not be subject to the strict supervision of the troika. prime minister rajoy declared june 10th a national holiday last sunday, because spain received 100 billion euros. 100 billion of hard earned tax money from dutch taxpayers, among others. and spain does not even have to meet the strict conditions imposed by greece, portugal and ireland. i would like to ask the commission and the council the following: what is your view of the threats made by spain to the council during the negotiations? how will the greeks, the portuguese and the irish feel now that spain does not have to meet the same stringent conditions? can you explain to the greeks and the portuguese why spain is given preferential treatment? can you explain to the dutch and german taxpayers why spain was allowed to pursue bad policy for years and is now rewarded with 100 billion euros? finally, what is the commission's and the council's view of spain's plan to write off three quarters of a billion euros of debt owed by the distressed spanish football clubs, so that dutch and german taxpayers will pay the millions of euros of salaries of messi and ronaldo? (the president declared the request for a 'blue card' question to be answered) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. on the contrary, mr president, the netherlands has been in a state of disrepair for years because other countries did not respect the agreements. as a result, the netherlands is now allowed to pay the billions to spain, greece and portugal, and as a result the netherlands is now in financial trouble itself. it is beyond words that all the agreements made here in the last ten or fifteen years have not been kept. and now that the netherlands is not complying with them, it would be very unwise to cut back heavily and destroy our economy now, because the economy in the netherlands is too important to be wasted now.
the euro crisis is unfolding like a wildfire, mr president, and the spotlight is once again on the fires that are still burning. that's what's scaring our citizens, and i understand that. however, we have made great progress. we have a fire brigade, which had to go out again last weekend for the spanish banks. but more than that, we need to get the euro house in order structurally. there has also been significant progress, although we are far from there. it is our task, and that of this european parliament as a legislative body, to contribute with determination and determination to strengthening the foundations of the euro. that is what our group is for. i would like to say to mr madlener and the pvv that there are no fairy tales. we cannot throw europe overboard, but we can preserve the prosperity and jobs of our citizens. there is no such fairy tale, and that is why we must continue to pursue it with determination. we have made important steps towards a fiscal union and an economic union; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission can intervene when countries get out of hand. this package as a whole is important for the structural solution, for the structural restoration of confidence. i hope that tomorrow a large majority in this house will be prepared to take responsibility for this. president. - mrs thyssen is right. it is a one-to-one, with this package, but also with the crucial building blocks aimed at sustainable growth and jobs. i hope, commissioner rehn, that the council will also respect this common method. we will do our best to do so. (the president declared the request for a 'blue card' question to be answered) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" question. what is it? i would like to ask mrs wortmann-kool why she is so much in favour of introducing eurobonds and of the netherlands being allowed to pay the bill for spain and greece all the time. do you think that's fair to the dutch? why do you not honestly admit that you want the netherlands to pay for the debts of greece and spain, and that with all your eurobonds and your governance you want the rich countries to pay for the poor countries in the end? the good countries are punished, and the bad countries that do not keep their promises are rewarded. you go explain that to the voters. what do you think of that, mrs wortmann-kool?
"blue card" answer. mr madlener, the dutch election campaign has started here in the european parliament. that's obvious. but you deny that we in the netherlands make our money in europe, including the southern member states. you deny that if the spanish banks were not helped, our dutch banks would also collapse and, even worse, the pensions of the dutch citizen would be affected. if we are not prepared to work together and invest in the future of europe, mr president, we will throw away all the gains and all the jobs, all that we have achieved in recent years, and our group is not prepared to do that. we want a good future for our children too.
mr president, the christian democrat scurria has found the golden key to bringing even more people to europe and to flooding our continent with poorly educated people under the guise of 'volunteers'. theoretically, these people may not take the jobs of western europeans, but in practice they will. immigrants from non-member countries are allowed to travel to our country without a visa, they have free access to our health system, they have the right to benefits, to work after their voluntary service and, of course, to start a family. we as citizens must above all show solidarity with this influx of 'intercultural enrichment', and then this parliament finds it ridiculous that citizens are turning away from europe more and more. mr president, we as the pvv are not at all surprised. if you continue in this way, the more rapidly the european elite state will collapse.
in writing. − i voted ‘against’ in the final vote on the herczog report. although i am in favour of cooperation with third countries and especially developing countries on the area of r&d cooperation and data-sharing on know-how transfer on clean and renewable energy sources as stated in §78, and although i am in general in favour of an eu energy policy based on clean and renewable energy sources without dependence on fossil fuels and nuclear energy, i cannot agree on any further spending of funds on iter or any other fusion research, further reliance and investment in nuclear energy and i definitely do not agree with energy exploration in the arctic region.
president. - the appointment of a special representative for human rights offers opportunities, for example, to give greater attention to a human right which is crucial but which is under great pressure, namely freedom of religion. in many lands that freedom is in decline. in indonesia, the government does little to stop radical muslims targeting christians and ahmadis. in northern nigeria, the terrorist group boko haram bombs a church almost every week. unfortunately, there are countless other examples, but that is why attention to religious freedom is urgently needed. the eusr shall also provide obligations in addition to those opportunities. i am thinking of human rights, to take them seriously in relations between europe and other countries. this must be reflected in concrete terms in our trade agreements. in india, 40 million people are trapped in a life of slavery. a trade agreement between europe and india cannot therefore be concluded without a strong and effective human rights chapter.
the european parliament has called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. this shocking fact was presented to me by a good friend, a skilled arabist, earlier this week from his damascus base. meanwhile, the alawite minority in syria, numbering some three million, fears outright genocide if the current assad regime is toppled. it is not a matter of speculation, because hate preachers like adnan al-arour are openly calling for this from saudi arabia. how does the european union assess this syrian horror, mrs ashton? and at the same time, i ask you, if you have not already done so, to call on saudi arabia to stop the spread of inflammatory hate speech via satellites from saudi territory. reliable syrian sources reported to me yesterday that salafist rebels are now so heavily armed that they control entire neighborhoods or even entire cities. for the christian quarters in homs and the cities of rastan and qusair, this is well documented. following the example of homs, last week some 10,000 christian civilians from qusair were driven from their homes and their possessions by armed rebels. are you equally aware of this information and, if so, did this sad expulsion lead to any european action or reaction?
president, mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the middle east. i must say to you, mrs ashton, that i was very pleased with the council conclusions of 14 may, because the parties say that they must refrain from actions which undermine the credibility of the peace process and they also express their concern about developments on the ground which now make a two-state solution impossible, such as the israeli settlement policy which is contrary to international law and they also speak well of the miserable living conditions of the palestinians in area c. president. - i shall now deal with the second part of the question. what leverage do we have if diplomatic and practical initiatives do not lead to an effective peace process? what are we going to do as the european union? how can we force a solution? how long will the mediator's efforts be credible if the parties do not comply with the agreements reached? we, mr president, and the european union in particular, must do everything possible to exert political pressure on the parties. we are israel's main trading partner, but we are also the main donor to the palestinian authority. i think it is absolutely time we started using the pressure mechanisms, because a community of values, which we are as the european union, can no longer afford the hands-off approach. president. - the next item is the report (doc. what are we doing and what will and will the european union do to persuade russia, and to a lesser extent china, to cooperate with the embargo? i think that is the only way to ensure that we can prevent the civil war which we all see coming.
mr president, syria is at this moment experiencing a terrible period in its existence. a civil war is a war that divides communities and makes enemies of neighbours. most of the time in a civil war it is evil versus evil, just as it is in this case. on the one hand, we see a dictator and his friends who are clinging onto power. on the other hand, we see islamic fundamentalists who have no desire to establish a proper democracy, but only to further spread political islam throughout the region. i would like to hear from mrs ashton what kind of contact there is with syrian opposition groups. is there contact with the syrian national council and, if so, could she elaborate on this? what does the high representative think of the resignation of professor ghalioun as chairman of the snc? does she share my fear that the snc is being hijacked by the muslim brotherhood and can she state that she will not cooperate with the muslim brotherhood in any way? we need to focus on the post-assad period. now is the time to tell the syrians that if they want our help, they need to break ties with iran, hezbollah and hamas. they need to embrace democracy and to denounce political islam.
mr president, i would like to ask a few seconds of your time before i start my speech on syria, which is what i want to focus on, because there is actually good news to share with this house. the sakharov winner asmaa mahfouz has been acquitted of all the allegations against her, and i thought it would be appropriate, while we are talking about these difficult challenges, that we also share this moment of good news together. on syria, i welcome the high representative. we have to ask ourselves what, in ten years’ time, we will tell the widows and parents whose children have been tortured to death and killed at point blank. the new generation of syrians who wish to fight for more freedom and justice need support. europe was, can and should be a beacon of freedom, and this comes with responsibility. that is not to say that solutions in syria are easy, but at least the eu needs to act as a global player and should be united. i urge you to set out a vision and a strategy and to take member states along. when will the eu member states really get behind a common foreign and defence policy if it is not in the face of this terrible violence and in this crucial moment in the middle east? there is a clear need for a new coalition of the willing to save lives and to ensure a transition to a syria which does not fall into a domino pattern of revenge actions and sectarian war. despite the weapon supplies and the less than responsible attitude we have seen so far, russia must be part of the solution. i welcome the contact group you mentioned if it leads to action instead of distraction. do you also see more room for targeted eu sanctions to pressure al-assad, and how will you ensure that eu sanctions are enforced and that no more ships such as the one from russia carrying weapons can dock in cyprus and then reach syria?
mr president, clearly the topic of today is syria. everyday we hear of new horrible things, such as children being used as human shields. it shows the weaknesses that exist in the un system. another issue which demonstrates this is the long lasting israeli-palestinian conflict. we in the eu remain committed to a two-state solution, as confirmed in recent council conclusions on the middle east peace process. however, current trends are deeply worrying, especially concerning the use of administrative detention by the israeli government, which is used to imprison palestinians without charge or evidence against them. many prisoners are kept in isolated cells for 23 hours a day. despite declarations from the israeli government to end administrative detention, this practice is still going on. this is unacceptable in a country claiming to uphold the rule of law. mrs ashton, have you brought this issue up with your contacts in the region?
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. in this, bosco, who has been indicted by the international criminal court since 2006, and his new m23 militia figured prominently. it is fortunate, however, mr president, that this is only one side of the congolese coin, as i learned yesterday during a lengthy telephone conversation with the dutch aid organization zoa on the spot. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the recent successful advance of a more disciplined congolese army in the east gives this hope a better perspective. does the high representative share this hope for a pacification of eastern congo? and how does the european union intend to contribute to this undoubtedly complex process?
president, mrs ashton, if nato troops leave afghanistan in 2014, will the country be able to peacefully take control of its own future? it doesn't look like it now. first, the karzai government is weak, controversial because of corruption, divided internally, as to the meaning of reconciliation. secondly, the afghan army is not yet able to take on the role of nato forces, and thirdly, negotiations between the parties and in the region are still not sufficiently afghan-led and are too dominated by washington, with its own american agenda, and that does not lead to success. this conflict will not end without a negotiated political agreement, but the karzai government can hardly contribute to that. the international crisis group made a good suggestion: the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. i'm curious to see catherine ashton's reaction to this proposal. perhaps the eu can insist on this. the role of the eu must be political, more than material or more than the training of police officers and more than the financial aid we must continue to give. in any case, the eu must continue to support the strengthening of afghan democracy, afghan institutions, the electoral system, the decentralisation of power, the strengthening of local parties, local authorities. this, together with the fight against corruption, is essential for a credible and viable administration after 2014.
mr president, today we are discussing the eu's multiannual budget beyond 2013. the eu wants to spend more money, but it's just not there. the eu wants its own income - read taxes. in case you missed it: there is a crisis going on that is affecting our citizens very badly. so let me be perfectly clear: the ppv is against eu own resources and is demanding, with other member states, a drastic reduction of the eu's multiannual budget by at least 100 billion. if we think further, we come to the conclusion that democracy is not guaranteed here, but at home in the member states, where it belongs. fortunately, each member state has a veto over whether or not to approve the multiannual budget. if it is up to christian democrats, socialists and liberals, then everyone will sleep well while the interests of dutch sovereignty are being squandered. but we still believe in the nation state, which determines whether and how much money is spent outside national borders. (the president declared the request for a 'blue card' question to be answered) (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. the answer is very simple. the dutch people overwhelmingly rejected the lisbon treaty at the time. we did not want that, we still do not want that and we do not accept that. unfortunately, the current state of affairs in europe is being decided over the heads of dutch citizens, and we no longer want that.
mr president, on 1 june this year mr van rompuy, who is not here, was awarded an honorary doctorate by the university of leuven. in his speech, mr van rompuy said that europe must cross the rubicon. europe on the road to monetary union. van rompuy made a far-reaching statement, because what happened when julius caesar crossed the rubicon? he staged a coup, was assassinated a few years later, and then rome suffered 15 years of civil war. the young doctor could not have drawn a worse comparison. this approach will only increase the debt mountain in europe, which already amounts to trillions. not this one! it is time for a study of a two-speed europe. the southern countries will then be able to keep the euro and the countries surrounding germany will be able to join the euro market. that gives you perspective.
mr president, a monetary union of 17 different societies is doomed to failure. and that is exactly what we are seeing happening. the financial well-functioning countries, such as the netherlands, germany and finland, are paying for the complete mismanagement, corruption and self-enrichment of the southern member states. the netherlands should immediately abandon the euro and introduce its own currency on friday after the stock exchange closes. it should be pegged to the euro until monday morning, after which a more stable currency should be sought to link it. circular traffic can be linked directly to the pound or dollar. anything is better than the euro. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the multiannual financial framework is something to be cherished. it gives the member states ultimate control over this money-hungry parliament. the heads of government have more realistic views on priorities than the unelected members of the commission and members of this parliament. i hope that we will see a drastic decrease in funding for the failed eu project and that more money will come back to the taxpayers. dutch citizens and taxpayers have for too long been the atm machine for dysfunctional member states. as the largest net contributors per capita we are more aware than any other country that the system needs to change. this parliament has to realise that it is not fictional money it is spending, but money brought up by the peoples of europe, who are sick and tired of this puppetry parliament and its continuous desire to spend more and more money on bogus projects.
in writing. − hans van baalen of the dutch people’s party for freedom and democracy (vvd) has abstained from the amended proposal and legislative resolution concerning the ferreira report. he and his colleague manders of vvd do not accept a redemption fund or an ftt.
in writing. - strengthening budgetary control by the commission has unfortunately proved necessary. i therefore support the commission's proposals. these should contribute to a timely correction of excessive deficits. i am against the other elements which have been introduced in the ferrera report: the commission has also proposed a new system of taxation for the euro area. that is why i cannot agree to this report. the gauzès report confines itself to the subject, tightening up the surveillance of member states in financial difficulties. i object to the weakening of the involvement of the international monetary fund in the determination of the sustainability of public debt in this report. that is an essential element and that is why i shall abstain on the vote on this report.
in writing. − the commission proposes to increase the eu budget for the period 2014-2020 compared to the current budgetary framework, also in view of the crisis. the european parliament also wants to have its own revenue, so that it is less dependent on member states' contributions. these measures are based on two misconceptions. economic growth is not for sale. the european parliament also believes that money does not have to be earned before it can be spent. economic growth can only be facilitated by creating the right conditions. a sound economic structure and reforms are essential. in the absence of such a policy, eu measures will not be able to provide a sustainable stimulus to growth. in addition, there is a conflict in the council between net payers and net receivers, who also call themselves the cohesion group, which i understand the president of the commission, mr barroso, has joined. i would ask the commission to be more neutral in this matter. this raises the question of whether the eu is capable of dealing responsibly with new economic and budgetary powers. a union which claims to represent the citizen is incredible when it proposes to increase the eu budget in a time of drastic cuts in the capitals.
in writing. − i cannot support the resolution on the multiannual financial framework and own resources as it gives credence to the austerity agenda in the member states. furthermore, i cannot support its call for an increase in the eu’s own resources, which are aimed at reducing the share of member state based contributions, as this will diminish the democratic accountability of the eu as well as the redistributive nature of the financing system. my decision was, consequently, to vote against the resolution. however, i support parliament’s role in the process and my vote does not in any way constitute support for the council’s proposal.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i thank commissioner rehn for presenting the current state of play of the european semester and his plans for the future. you can count on our full support. it is very good that we are now in the middle of the first year of the european semester, which is a much more powerful instrument to use to better align our economic and budgetary policies. the commission's powers have been considerably tightened. we want transparent discussions on the commission's recommendations and also that the council takes them seriously, because that was lacking in the past. it is therefore important that whenever the council does not follow the commission, the council will have to come here to this house to explain why it does not and why a different position is being taken. in many other cases, the voting procedure is reversed. i would like to congratulate commissioner rehn, mr president, on the sound analysis he has put forward on the national reform programmes and the stability programmes and the recommendations he has made. it is now up to the member states to take them seriously. that is why it is a great pity that the council is not here today, because it is important that we have this debate as a trio. i can already see some countries trying to negotiate to get rid of the sharp edges, and i see that in my own country, the netherlands. there should be strict recommendations for all countries, but when it comes to ourselves, there is no need for that. we are not going to get out of this crisis that way, and that is why we must take it seriously. i hope you will stand firm and seek public debate if the council deviates from your recommendations.
president, commissioners, there is a great deal in the country-specific recommendations with which i wholeheartedly agree. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model, including the creation of a european social area. ngos, social partners, even national parliaments are hardly involved, so the newspapers are not full of it and voters do not care very much about what the commission has said when they go to vote. i challenge the commissioners to do a survey of national parliamentarians and then ask them how many of the five 2020 goals they can name. i'll bet you a big box of belgian chocolates that 90% of them couldn't name one. the democratic content of the semester must be raised so that member states can let the semester determine their policies much more, and i am not just talking about the objectives of sanctions, but also about all the other objectives. fortunately, it's an annual process, and we have a chance next year to just start doing better.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation, which is to be introduced in the next few years. many have said it. when it comes to debt, there are two things that matter. first, not spending more than you earn, and second, looking for ways to earn more, to generate income. the internal market can help us in this. we must ensure that the internal market works, and that takes courage. less stifling rules, but better working rules in all member states alike and not in all different ways. experience shows that the transposition of directives creates a gap in the internal market, making it much more difficult to operate, especially for smes. i have been advocating for years that legislation for the internal market should be based on regulations, which work in the same way in all countries. so far i have not succeeded in doing so, but i ask you again to ensure that we base legislation for the better functioning of our european economy on regulations, which member states can no longer implement in a protectionist manner, which means that the crossborder economy does not work in the european union. the single market must once again become a model for the world economy, a place where money is made, where social security is provided, where a great many issues are discussed that ensure prosperity and political stability. we must ensure that we achieve a single market, mr president, where businessmen feel at home again instead of fleeing to outside europe because of the stifling rules, and where european citizens are proud to buy european products again. i see i have ten seconds left, so i'm gonna call acta. acta is dead because we haven't communicated enough to the citizens. but it is the european products that are being counterfeited for over a billion. we must make the internal market a place where entrepreneurs and european workers can feel at home again.
the european parliament has called for the european union to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. i think that the creation of jobs must be our first priority. "towards a job-rich recovery" is a step in the right direction. i am very enthusiastic about the idea of a labour market monitoring system playing an important role in the jobs plans in the semester, and of course especially about the focus on 'green' jobs. we greens have read the working document on 'green' jobs with great pleasure. we could have written it ourselves. 100 000 to 200 000 additional jobs per percentage point of reduced raw material consumption, that should be the incentive for any government to adopt a green policy. but i don't have a lot of faith in that. our union is making a great leap forward: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. how can we force member states to pay attention to social matters when we have an excessive deficit procedure but not an excessive unemployment procedure, when more than 3% of the budget deficit can lead to sky-high fines but 50% of youth unemployment cannot. as countries, we are being charged for wage costs that are too high, but not for wages that are below the poverty line. we have to move forward and we have to move towards more integration. but if we are breaking taboos, why not break them socially? i would like to see the commission proposing a directive on the european minimum wage, on penalties for excessive unemployment or poverty, on making this initiative binding by 2020. courage, please!
president, commissioner, twelve years ago there was a major fireworks disaster in enschede in the netherlands; it made all the world's news. 23 people died in this. last year we had a major fire at chemie-pack in moerdijk, a company which had long been supplying incomplete information; it was just not maintained properly. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. it had been known for a long time what was going on at that company, but they had been given space for a very long time. every time a disaster like this happens, we're gonna amend the law. but above all we must keep a good eye on enforcement, because that is the most important thing. i am glad that this directive has now been revised, because it is very important for the citizen to be able to see what is happening in the neighbouring company and this gives him confidence. the fact that this information is now also available on the internet is very important in this day and age. it's a way for the public to access it. however, the problem remains that the provision of information is not always in one hand, that the municipalities or authorities do not always have the expertise to carry out the inspections properly. we really need to work on that. there is a need for more support for the authorities to carry out inspections properly and also to inform the emergency services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided to the public is correct and that the public is able to trust it.
on behalf of the ppe group. - mr president, on behalf of the ppe group i would like to support the rapporteur's line and also thank her very much for her work. we agree with the commission that we need to clean up this legislation because of the rampant growth of diabetic food or special food products that are now on the internal market. our line is: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the foodstuffs are not subject to the same rules as the other products. but we do want to protect the most vulnerable in our society. so we are talking about a separate regime for medical foods, for baby and toddler foods, but we are also adding dietary foods and gluten very explicitly to that, because it is not clear enough to us when and how exactly the commission is going to regulate these foods under the general food law. i would urge the commission and especially the council to act quickly. we have now done our homework; we have a report which was adopted by a large majority, and i assume that this will also happen in the plenary. it is now up to the council to secure a final negotiating mandate. because as we sit here talking, all kinds of new foods are coming onto the market, for example, infant formula for one to three-year-olds. parents in europe are confused about this product. is it really an indispensable product in the diet of a toddler that we should regulate through special legislation? or is it just a shelf-stable milk with a few extra vitamins? or - worse - perhaps it is bad for children because it has a very sweet vanilla flavor, making children lifelong sweet-lovers? commissioner, europe sometimes seems so far away from the citizens! i urge you to clarify this as soon as possible through the efsa; all the parents of europe will be grateful to you.
blue-card question. – mr president, i do not know how long ago it is that ms willmott used formula milk, but on formula there is a gigantic ‘1’, which means zero to six months. on follow-on formula there is gigantic number ‘2’, which means the second age group, six to twelve months. how stupid does ms willmott think european citizens are? is this not an example of the european nanny state trying to regulate everything and focusing on the wrong things? so please vote against amendment 68, which is absolutely superfluous.
president. - thank you to the rapporteur for these excellent proposals. it was high time for an improvement. because, as has been said here, innovations in the food sector sometimes go faster than legislation can keep up. so it is good that we pay regular attention to this, especially in view of the fact that there are more and more people with all kinds of allergies or special conditions. we really need to keep our fingers crossed here. of course, the vulnerable groups and, as has been said, those suffering from allergies also need special attention. and it's not true that it's always so easy to read. we were just talking about follow-up milk; the packaging is almost identical, and whether it's a big 1, 2 or 3 on it, parents buy it so quickly, and i've been confused myself several times about what to grab, whether it's follow-up milk or other products. that needs to improve and that needs to become clearer. so information, also in the packaging. perhaps we should also move to a different kind of packaging, so that it is clear to parents and to people with special conditions what exactly they are buying now. of course, advertising also plays a very important role in this. i think we really need to address this, because advertising is still too often used to make misleading claims. in the netherlands we even have a special prize for it: the golden windee. perhaps we can also set up a european golden egg for that. i'll get to the other point very quickly. i would also like to draw your attention to nanotechnology, which is also increasingly being used in special food products, but also in other food products. the developments here are very rapid and i think it is really time that we also pay attention to this in the very short term, also for the vulnerable groups.
president. - i should like to thank mrs frédérique ries for her excellent work. it is very good that in sometimes confusing situations improvements are now being made to protect or better protect vulnerable groups. it is also good that more attention is being paid to small and mediumsized enterprises in the food industry. but i would like to point out that information on the labels alone is not salutary. in the past, people were much more concerned with nutrition, and children knew much better what was good for them. i would like to ask the commission to look more closely at nutrition education. educating children about nutrition in other ways. children at this point often don't know how food is made, what's good for them, what's healthy; i think the industry needs to be involved in a voluntary way, so that not only are commercials made to promote their products, but also help educate children, to make it clear what's healthy for them, because that's better for everyone in the long run. i know that the commission is enthusiastic about this and i hope that very soon initiatives will be taken which will eventually lead to a healthier society.
the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the report by mr van miert. we were laughed at, but our right is being proven again today. the council had a great deal of power in european fisheries policy, but the treaty of lisbon still gives that power to the commission. a cardinal mistake, it will be seen. in the coastal waters of scotland, herring are swimming around; a lot of herring. the commission should now be given the power to determine the maximum number of fish that can die and the number of young fish that can be born. if the herring decide to move to another area, the implementation of the plan should not be jeopardised. mr president, this is truly beyond words. if this parliament thinks it can even regulate the biological properties of herring, it has gone completely mad - whether or not on the basis of the hated lisbon treaty. i'll have it noted again. the pvv also believes that the whole of eu fisheries policy should simply be returned to national policy. the member states are doing much better, as has been shown today.
"blue card" question. what is it? i have an article from a dutch daily newspaper with a leading fisheries biologist, mr ad corten, who writes that the north sea is full of herring. you said just now that the fish stocks are being depleted; so that's not true at all. why is that? because often the committees of inquiry which are called upon to investigate are not independent. would you care to comment on that?
president, commissioner, rapporteur stevenson, the scottish herring is very popular and is sold and consumed in the netherlands as dutch nieuwe. our herring season began on saturday with flag day. well, mr. stevenson, "the proof of the pudding is in the eating". what can we say? this year's is excellent quality, is smooth and has a fat content of 18%. the fishing quotas have been set at a low level for years and we are now seeing much more herring than ever expected. at the same time, it contains my message. the scientific quality of these forecasts must and can be improved, and it is therefore right that parliament should also demand control over this. more control, not just at the commission. it is important that we also exercise these rights, which derive from the treaty of lisbon as a parliament, as stated in the stevenson report. it can be better, it must be better. mr stevenson is right in his approach and we will just have to continue along that line. even if we talk until 3 a.m., parliament has those rights and we must therefore simply continue along that line.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, let us not fool ourselves. the quota system of recent years has not produced a good price guarantee. i think the commission must take decisions which are good for the whole of the european union, and i see three actions which are actually needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota system is not used as a means of controlling the production of agricultural products. we were promised that. we have to do something about that. commission, step over your shadow and do something about the fat correction, or make it possible to use the space still available in europe under the total quota. secondly: it allows for the vulnerable regions, such as mountain regions, to provide additional support through the first or second pillar. i do not want to see cows disappear from the alpine pastures either, but that is a structural problem, more than just a market mechanism problem. and thirdly, commission, please ensure that there is a fair distribution of the margins in the chain. look at the power of supermarkets and, for example, make sure that underpricing is banned throughout europe. this is already the case in some countries and should be the case throughout the european union, especially in the case of primary food products.
mr president, i have an oral amendment to amendment 9. i will read the whole amendment. ‘stresses that there is a need for better and less eu legislation; calls on the commission, therefore, to choose, where appropriate and principally where there is no need for further discretion when implementing eu legislation, regulations rather than directives as the preferred legal instrument for regulating the single market since they have clear advantages in terms of efficiency and effectiveness and create a level playing field for citizens and business, with greater potential for private enforcement’.
author. − mr president, despite the challenges at home, the eu risks becoming too inwardly focused, even though events in the rest of the world matter for our security and prosperity. the southern neighbourhood is in the middle of a crucial transition and these events cannot be seen in a vacuum. a crisis is looming in the sahel region which risks having enormous spillover effects into the already fragile north african region all the way down to nigeria, which is facing instability every day. after the conflict in libya, weapons flowed through the sahel region way too freely, adding to the complex and intertwined problems of terrorism and extremism, poverty and organised crime, such as trading drugs, weapons and people. ordinary people, especially women and children, are the first to suffer, and they deserve our attention. we need to work together with the african union, the un and ecowas to speed up the implementation of the various components of the eu strategy for security and development in the sahel. we support the council’s commitment to contribute to the development of a peaceful, stable region where food security is guaranteed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, president aquino declared that human rights, good governance and the fight against corruption will be a priority. he wants clear policies against extra-judicial killings and other violations of human rights. this is a positive declaration. we also welcome the ratification of the rome statute by the philippines, but now these words need to translate into actions and results. there is plenty of reason for concern about impunity in the philippines. witnesses, as well as journalists, are being killed, and sadly the philippines ranks as one of the most dangerous countries for the media. urgent measures are needed to protect witnesses, judges, lawyers and prosecutors involved in investigating the sensitive trials. a clear message should be sent by ending impunity for extra-judicial killings, forced disappearances and torture by bringing those responsible to justice, including people with high-ranking military or government jobs or who are in the chain of command of paramilitary factions. the government of the philippines is urged to invite the un special rapporteur to visit the country to investigate the human rights situation, and the eu stands ready to help with the justice for all programme, which has been allocated eur 10 million for 2012-2015.
author. − mr president, it is safe to say that all iranians are repressed and live in a culture of state-inflicted violence every day. this sad reality of the islamic republic must not be overshadowed by the negotiations on the nuclear issue, a new round of which starts early next week. in fact, for those who believe that change in iran must and will come from the iranian people themselves, human rights are a strategic issue and can never be traded in a zero-sum game in relation to the nuclear programme. this house highlights the situation of ethnic minorities specifically today. minorities in iran continue to be discriminated against and harassed. peaceful demonstrators are imprisoned after trials which do not meet any international standards, and the treatment of prisoners in iran is well known across the world for its harshness. torture, rape and executions are common practices, which we continue to condemn on the basis of our belief in the universality of human rights. more importantly, however, we urge the iranian authorities to stick to their own commitments, as stated in their constitution. non-persian women face double discrimination, as members of marginalised communities and as women in iran facing laws which specifically limit their rights. we urge the iranian authorities to free all activists who are currently imprisoned for their peaceful advocacy of minority rights and to respect the right of ethnic minorities to use their languages, in private or public, and in particular to guarantee education in these languages in accordance with the constitution of the islamic republic of iran.
president. - the additional requirements for the digital tachograph in lorries have my support. that is good for road safety in europe. but if we really want to do something about road safety in the transport of goods, we need to come to a harmonized, article-based interpretation of the driving and resting time regulations. now many drivers are still stressed behind the wheel, because they can be fined for violations up to 28 days in the past. that's bad for road safety. so that is the point the commissioner should deal with first. the committee on transport of this parliament has rightly rejected the proposal to merge the driver's card with the driver's licence. that is an unnecessary invasion of privacy and when the card is taken, the driver is punished not only professionally but also privately. we cannot allow that to happen. that is not the intention. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. commissioner kallas, you have my support!
i would like to thank mr seeber for his excellent work. mr president, i do not know whether it is a coincidence or not, but today my own university, leiden, has come forward with the results of a major study of water quality in the netherlands which has been going on for many years. the conclusions are quite clear. first of all, until the year 2001, there have been very large improvements in the quality of water in the netherlands. the measure alone of taking up one and a half metres of space along the water's edges when using pesticides has improved the surface quality of the water by 70%. 70% with a fairly simple measure! but the other conclusion is that water quality has not improved since the year 2001, and that, according to the same study, is actually still relatively simple. with limited intervention, the water can be made 45% cleaner again. that says it all about the red line in mr seeber's report. that is implementation. implementation is the key to better water quality. and we are right to stress this. but also better integration. it has also been brought up again by commissioner potočnik. agriculture and industry use 90% of the water. there's still a lot of profit to be made. the more efficient use of water, it should be remembered, also fits into the roadmap for efficient use of resources. it's not unimportant. quite simply, we could use 40% less water than we do now. finally, the fourth element i want to bring up is the importance of ecosystem services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of water supplies is maintained, and that the quality of water supplies is improved. i hope and assume that mr potočnik will continue to do so and i look forward to the blueprint.
the commission's animal welfare strategy contains some good points, but a great many animals are left out of the current proposal. that is why i have added two points in an alternative resolution which parliament had previously supported by a large majority. the resolution is exactly the same as the paulsen report. the first addition is the eight-hour limit on animal transport. animals on their way to the slaughterhouse, that shouldn't take too long. over a million citizens have signed their names. efsa is in favour of shorter transport and a majority of the parliament says it is in favour of shorter transport. i hope the members will vote in favour of this on wednesday. the second addition is a ban on products from cloned animals and their offspring. the cloning technique is animal-worthy. more than 90% of all cloned animals are born dead or terminally ill. that's not the kind of food most citizens want. parliament has previously unanimously opposed this cloning technique. wednesday is the last chance to signal. please vote in favour of the alternative resolution.
the year 2012 has so far been marked by a failing union, a failing euro and the loss of citizens' confidence in the failed european dream. but, mr president, there is also bad news. a number of southern countries are on the verge of collapse. the funds of unsuspecting taxpayers in northern member states are being plundered under the name of solidarity. many eu citizens are looking with dismay at recent developments around the esm. mr president, if the trend of the past year continues, it is only a question of whether we will still be here in six months' time. votes are increasingly being taken in many eu countries to abolish the eu and the euro. i welcome that, mr president. this eu has outlived its usefulness, because you cannot play a broken violin.
president, representatives of the council and the commission, i would like to comment on the progress that has been made. an agreement on nsi efficiency has thus been reached. there is agreement on the financial regulation, and other important matters. that is what parliament wants: the results. as coordinator of the ppe group's regional policy, however, i see too little progress in the process of the multiannual financial framework. if there is no agreement at the beginning of 2013, we simply cannot apply the new regulations and we will have lost years in this time of crisis at the beginning of 2014. i would like to say to the council that progress has been made on the general regulation on the structural funds. but there's a tissue defect in there. there are important elements which are co-legislative with parliament and which have been put in the box and are discussed there in connection with the mff. then there are matters such as the categorisation of regions, for which parliament, the cohesion representatives, are responsible. the position of the common strategic framework, the performance reserve, etc. look at article 312 of the treaty of lisbon and articles 174, 177, and it is clear that there is a fabrication error, an architectural error. i ask the council today - because this will be important in the negotiations in the near future -: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we asked the council about this on 18 june with a large group of members of parliament. you are not respecting the lisbon treaty. you can't do it like that! we want to use the mandate of our committee on regional affairs to start discussing the subjects on which we have a say immediately after the vote on 11 july. you can't do it like that!
mr farage is absolutely right. the way things are going with the esm treaty is unacceptable and undemocratic. i will explain why, mr van rompuy. the european council approved two important amendments to the esm treaty. firstly, aid would now be given directly to banks and would no longer have to go to the countries. the second amendment: the esm loans will no longer enjoy preferential status. the council has hereby proposed such a crucial change to the text of the convention that it must be ratified again. the netherlands must contribute 40 billion euros. we are talking about a very substantial amount, namely more than five thousand euros per dutch household. it goes without saying that such a treaty with such financial consequences requires a careful ratification process. our democracy requires that, mr van rompuy. our parliament is currently at the end of the ratification process of the esm. but our representatives have wrongly assumed that there could be no direct bank support. even our prime minister, marc rutte, has said that it is undesirable for the esm to give money directly to banks. and now it turns out that's going to happen. so our representatives are misinformed, or perhaps mr swoboda is right and prime minister rutte is telling you, mr van rompuy, different stories in brussels than he is telling you in the netherlands. i would like to hear mr van rompuy's explanation on this. professor of public and administrative law at leiden university, wim voermans, has also looked into the legal aspects of the matter. i quote him: "direct payments to banks are not possible under the current treaty. the treaty must then be amended and re-ratified". end of quote. article 12 of the esm is clear: the esm stability support can only be provided to esm members, i.e. not to banks. the second amendment, which means that the esm loans to spain are no longer preferential, also means a crucial change in the terms of the treaty. our house of representatives has been misled. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying: the freedom party considers this practice to be undemocratic, illegal and unacceptable.
in writing. the heads of government have taken steps to combat the euro crisis: european banking supervision, european support for banks and the purchase of government bonds from the emergency fund. nothing short of a major step towards a european banking union. it is sad that the situation in the eurozone is such that many economists consider this substantial step to be necessary. i have three questions to put to the council on the outcome of the summit. first of all: does direct european support to banks not weaken too much the incentive for the weak euro countries to put things in order, both in the banking sector and in public finances? secondly, the esm treaty. the german chancellor and the european commission argue that direct support to banks can take place via article 19 of the esm treaty without re-ratification by national parliaments of an amended esm. does the council consider that direct aid to banks does not require renewed ratification? in conclusion: how realistic is it to assume that europe will have an effective banking supervision system in six months' time? that is a prerequisite for the responsible use of the emergency fund.
"blue card" question. what is it? i hear mrs gallo say that acta is there to protect the health of european citizens. i want to ask mrs gallo: are you aware that good counterfeit drugs save lives? that well-made counterfeit medicines are affordable for citizens in developing countries and that they are getting health care that they don't have if we enforce the copyright, the intellectual property right, on medicines in the way that acta is advocating?
acta is a dangerous treaty, a misconception that puts internet freedom at risk. europe has always been the continent where the freedom of people to gather knowledge has been paramount. the internet is a source of creativity, innovation and information exchange. if acta is adopted, these achievements are in danger of being swept away. a government that spies on its own citizens online is not only undermining citizens' privacy, it is a direct attack on internet freedom and freedom of expression. these fundamental freedoms can and must never be compromised. in the meantime, the commission is deaf to all criticism, as usual. citizens and interest groups can protest, the commission does not care. after years of backroom politics and secrecy, the commission is now resorting to manipulation and delaying tactics. we cannot imagine a more serious breach of democratic principles. the commission can go through all kinds of twists and turns, mr president, but internet freedom cannot and will not be twisted. down with this horrible treaty! (the president agreed to answer a question on a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" question. what is it? on behalf of the cda delegation, we have been saying for some time that acta is dead. but i ask mrs. stassen one thing: what then will you do with the 8 billion which europe has already lost because it does not pay for everything it gets on the market? how do you deal with that, ma'am? how do you deal with the fact that what is vested in rights by another is taken away from you? can you give me some alternatives?
"blue card" is the answer. of course, mrs oomen, i can answer that. i think it is rather a joke that your party in particular is now focusing on this issue. you've always been pro-acta, and now you're suddenly anti-acta. but one thing is for sure, internet freedom will never be and must never be undermined, not even by the ppe group.
mr president, we have been joined by millions of europeans who voiced protests against acta and i want to recognise this historic movement and build on it in a constructive way. now is the time for open, collaborative european democracy. acta is the symbol of closed politics, of non-transparent back-door decisions of the pre-lisbon era, and of hampering instead of embracing digital freedom. it is time to say goodbye to acta but – this rejection comes with responsibilities. we need to complete the eu’s digital single market, for which we desperately need copyright reform, not the enforcement of 27 different systems. we need sector-specific approaches to counterfeiting: a bag is not a movie. tangible goods are scarce; digital contact exists increasingly in abundance and we cannot enforce counterfeit goods the same way as we do digital content, not without violating fundamental rights or other collateral damage. internet service providers are not music police. let us foster more legal content instead.
entering acta to stop downloading without paying is like shooting an elephant at a mosquito. europeans with an internet connection - and we have almost all of them - have been checked by internet service providers. we don't need to be monitored while we're having a nice time surfing! those who say we should do that to protect artists and help protect their livelihoods, i would like to invite you to come and talk about other ways of making money from art. because that's an answer to the problem, an answer now, an answer in 2012, and not blocking. i said it before, counterfeit drugs -- and generic drugs are counterfeit drugs -- save lives in developing countries. we should not be against that.
it is beyond question to me that rules are needed to protect intellectual property. citizens and businesses suffer when that does not happen. the rights that apply to this internet must therefore also be safeguarded. because when you're surfing the internet, it's like you're walking into a market. and if you find something nice in the market, you have to pay for it. we have to get used to paying for the internet too. i am saying that acta, the instrument we have before us today, is not the right instrument. the cda delegation in this parliament therefore rejects acta. i would also like to say to mrs stassen, but her seat is empty, that the cda in the house of commons - because she is making it a national issue - has also rejected acta. madam is giving up her herd but, if she can get an answer, she's not here anymore. i think that this acta should be rejected because it raises too many questions, it contains too many ambiguities. what about the internet freedom of the individual citizen? are the basic rights of citizens being accepted? are not the rich countries being favoured at the expense of other countries? is there no change in the current european legislation? all these things need to be cleared up.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. the agricultural budget, with an increase of 1.6%, is actually a very modest increase next year compared with the 7% overall proposed by the european commission. and this increase in agriculture is also largely due to the phasing out of income support in new member states. but i think that in times of economic crisis we must also look at expenditure critically, since many member states are also having to tighten their belts. the committee on agriculture will also try to do that. what are our priorities for the 2013 budgetary procedure in terms of content? price volatility, commissioner, is a growing problem. it's not going away. we therefore propose to set up a pilot project to help farmers cope with these increasingly volatile markets. we are also disappointed that the european commission is implementing so poorly the pilot projects we have set up in the past, for example the price and margin observatory which is important for farmers who often get a bad price from the market. the commission has promised to do something about it. we see very little of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. you know that agricultural markets can react very quickly and that an emergency can arise very quickly, as happened last year with ehec in the fruit and vegetable sector. so please ensure that we as a parliament, as a committee, can respond in time.
last weekend i went to see the new movie "ice age 4". in that film, two australian marsupials make a memorable remark. when asked why they get into so much trouble, they answer: you want to know our secret? because we are so very, very stupid. a comment that is very relevant in the context of this debate on the 2013 budget mandate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. who would make up something like that? that is the commission and the european parliament. what's going to go up in 2013? just about everything. you'd better ask what's not going up. so if you as a citizen want to know the secret of how europe got into such serious trouble, you will get the answer from the two sack rats called the commission and the european parliament: because we are so very, very stupid.
let me join you in this discussion. we are at the end of the seven-year period and now we are faced with a number of payments which we have to make, also from previous years, particularly for cohesion policy. it is strange that in the first few years the money is going back to the member states, to the net payers. and then they refuse to pay those bills. shouldn't we just settle that with each other? they had it back first, and now the bills are in. it is a crazy system in itself to take what is left every year and then pretend that the money is not there when the bills come. so we're gonna have to be a little more creative. the civilians don't understand this. i don't really know either. is there any other way?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today we are discussing the oral question that seeks to clarify in a binding way appropriate measures to ensure that the eu will not import medicines or other pharmaceutical products from the occupied territories. this is in line with our policies across all imports from israel, as well as exports. it is now both what israel and commissioner de gucht have said, so it should also apply to these products in the wake of this protocol. when we talk about the technical implementation of a protocol to a trade agreement, some context and background are important, as it is undeniable that the political discussions have taken the upper hand in this house when dealing with this dossier. when it comes to israel or the middle east peace process, we have to be careful not to be so divisive ourselves that we become part of the problem instead of the solution. clearly the eu has a responsibility to lead in protecting and promoting universal human rights worldwide. we believe trade agreements are an important lever and i think we should not shy away from firmly invoking conditionality clauses, especially those on human rights. however, to appropriately address the serious problem of the illegal settlements that the current government of israel continues to build, this may not be the tool. we either have to use the conditionality at association agreement level or find other ways. to start with this protocol means we are turning procedures upside down and that will have an adverse effect. if nothing else, the procedural journey that this protocol has made through the eu makes us all less credible, and that is not what we need. instead, trade and human rights should align in the eu’s external actions. the alde group hopes the answer to this oral question will provide clarity so that we can put the protocol to a vote. it is then up to members of this house to vote according to their conscience, as we always do, even on difficult and politicised issues. however, with or without this protocol, i once again urge the israeli government to stop the illegal settlements and to move closer to the eu and the international community. getting by on a day-by-day basis is not the same as a sustainable two-state solution, which moves further away with every settlement built. that is irresponsible towards israeli citizens in a dramatically uncertain and changing neighbourhood. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question because it allows me to clarify the matter. i hope that it was clear from my introduction on behalf of the alde group that we are ready to put this protocol to a vote where parliament can take its decision on whether to go ahead or not, and not to persist with procedural questions as is the case at the moment. if we want to address the very urgent human rights violations in israel this, in my view, is not the appropriate way.
for the epp group it is clear that the agreement between the eu and israel on the acceptance of each other's pharmaceutical products benefits consumers. the council and the commission have also given clear answers to previous parliamentary questions on the agreement, both in legal terms and in terms of implementation. why does the european parliament not express itself in a positive way? nevertheless, i welcome the oral questions from the committee on international trade and the committee on foreign affairs. because now, after all, the long drawn-out acaa dossier is finally on the agenda. i hope and count on this important eu-israel trade agreement being discussed and voted on in a plenary session of this parliament as soon as possible. i would like to make a particular appeal to the committee on international trade, which has the primary parliamentary responsibility in this acaa matter, and also to the rapporteur. i also thank the commissioner for his clear answers to the questions. i hope that this is the end of this dossier and that we can move on to the agenda.
we have a technical protocol on the table today, but we have said many times that international trade is not just about economic and trade considerations. if we look at our own european treaty, we see that the european union's action is based on the spread of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for the principles of the un charter and international law. the relationship between israel and the eu and the association agreement must also be examined in this context. mr president, with today's protocol we must be 100% sure that the provisions of the protocol do not apply to goods or products produced in occupied territories, because that is political. we must ask ourselves what kind of signal we would be sending if we simply accepted this protocol. because, mr president, - and this is political - unfortunately, the settlement problem will not bring about the comprehensive peace agreement that we all want. i think that a discussion of a protocol such as we are having today will at least give the european union some leverage to ensure that the parties come to an agreement. i will say yes tomorrow, mr president, but i will say yes with the absolute signal that the european commission is monitoring it well.
as a dutch christian democrat, i wish the president of cyprus every success in this difficult task. you come from a small country. i too come from a small country and it is always a great challenge to lead the european union amid the great minds of merkel, hollande and schulz. i agree with president barroso: focus on the main issues! the period is very short and there is an extraordinary amount of work to be done. i also miss the word subsidiarity in this parliament today. we have to do a lot of things in the countries themselves and the european union must confine itself to the main issues. of course, the crisis management, we have talked about that. the deepening of the internal market, we have talked about that. the multiannual financial framework, we have talked about that. but the cuts - you said in your introduction - are also affecting ordinary european citizens and that gives the european parliament a great responsibility to be cautious about excessive budget increases. and my liberal colleagues have said it before: the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. but, mr president, i would also like to draw attention to the position of the european parliament. we have of course had some bitter clashes with the council in the schengen area and in the patent area, and i also hope that you, as president of the council, will respect the position of the european parliament and will build it up yourself. mr president, we have heard a lot about turkey this morning. the situation is complex, also in view of the relationship between cyprus and turkey. but i also wish you good luck with this dossier, good courage and to speak to socrates: leave the union better off than you found it!
cyprus keeps alive the tradition of the apostles paul and barnabas and for that alone you have our sympathy. and the brutal turkish occupation of a significant part of your island makes us sensitive to support for you. but cyprus must not drift towards russia. the fact that you, mr president, have graduated in moscow should not result in your being overly dependent on mr putin. because you know, you shake his hand, and before you know it, you've lost your whole arm. let cyprus look to europe for financial support, and of course first of all let it put things right. the burning question is: what supervision has cyprus exercised over its banks? how did several banks in cyprus get into such trouble? that cannot be explained by the close ties with greece alone. finally, i wish you strength and blessing for your presidency!
in writing. − i abstained on the agriculture reports on alignment. these reports align the existing body of agricultural legislation to the new legal reality, which is the system of delegated and implementing acts. reports which use delegated acts are those on which the parliament has a right of veto. although i am opposed to the common agricultural policy, i recognise that the principle of protecting parliament’s right of veto, where it has been legally given (in the lisbon treaty), is a principle that needs to be protected. this principle will go beyond agricultural reports. because of this, because i do not wish the commission to make decisions in which parliament should co-legislate, i abstained on these reports.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east. do they not see the freedom that europeans offer? do they not see the economic benefits of free travel? do our prime ministers doubt their fellow prime ministers? do they doubt the willingness of other member states to properly control and protect our external borders? it looks like it. i believe that this doubt, indeed mistrust, between member states is symptomatic of what is happening in the european union. together we are strong. we'll get through this together. our prime ministers don't seem to believe in working together. the european parliament is saying: the european commission should be responsible for monitoring and implementing freedom of movement, because it is in the european interest. i believe that freedom of movement is one of the greatest assets of the european union. i am therefore surprised to hear the european commission, through mrs malmström, now say that the so-called mobile surveillance of foreigners by the dutch government is allowed. i would say: if it quacks like a duck and it looks like a duck, then it's a duck. if you allow it now, when several dutch courts have already refused it, i am sure that the court of justice in luxembourg will soon do the same.
the fact that there are problems as a result of schengen cannot be said enough here. the euro-philists in this parliament are blind and deaf and they do not want to understand. schengen is the cause of the mass displacement of crime and nuisance. now that the member states have finally recognised that these problems must be tackled, this parliament is opposing the solution. but border controls must be reinstated and member states must ensure security. those border controls were removed by naive idealism. this idealism does not bring about the hoped-for convergence within europe, but rather alienation. it's a cleft. the choices made by brussels do not offer solutions. brussels is voting for the failed euro experiment and thus against the citizen. brussels is in favour of increasing budgets and therefore against the taxpayer. and with schengen, brussels is choosing free movement of criminals over security. the european parliament supports these wrong choices. i therefore address mr van rompuy, through the representative of the council, as president of the european council. he does not like freedom, he does not like participation and he does not like national democracy, but he does like centralism, rule-making and japanese poetry. so i'm going to write a haiku for him. the schengen area. traveling crime. the line has been crossed. the winter in brussels.
i would like to respond to my pvv colleague who said, with a bit of condescension: "yes, schengen is a bit of an idea of idealists". my grandfather, zaliger, had a one-man import business for office supplies and travelled from the netherlands to brussels and paris every two weeks, initially on a bicycle, to collect his products. and i recently found his old passports that testify to what europe looked like before schengen. full of stamps, witnesses to long waiting times, the duty to declare foreign exchange, money to exchange. he would have embraced schengen because it would have made his life so much easier. speaking of idealism. the european commission, commissioner, must ensure that the schengen code is respected, not only in its letter but also in its spirit. and if there are eleven problematic situations in europe, it is clear that schengen is under pressure in the mind. it is at the heart of the european project. and if you say that the situation in the netherlands is not problematic, i am surprised. we are fighting crime not just in the border region, mrs malmström, but throughout the netherlands. so to join my colleague from greenleft: if it looks like border controls, it probably is border controls.
the principle of free movement of persons, goods, services and capital is one of the cornerstones of the european union. the treaty of lisbon has made the schengen agreement a core element of the european union. in an age of increasing nationalism and even populism, but also in an age of increasing crime and illegality, we must watch the schengen treaty very carefully and keep a very close eye on the interpretation of that treaty. i am personally in favour of a broad interpretation of schengen border controls - the commissioner knows that - but under community supervision. we have agreed that and that is a key element of european public law. in this respect, i am also shocked by the decision of the european council of 7 and 8 june to abandon or to limit community supervision, or community method. and i welcome the commitment of the president of the european council to restore that. but we will judge him by his deeds. parliament, and i agree with all the people who have spoken before me, cannot be left out of the picture on this point. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" question. what is it? i have here a letter from the dutch minister for foreign affairs, a member of mr. van de camp's party, dated july 3, 2012, which says that as of august 1st, he will intensify the mobile foreign surveillance or the mobile security surveillance - they change their name quite often. is that the way mr van de camp would like to interpret the schengen agreement broadly?
"blue card" is the answer. the commissioner said this afternoon, if i have understood him correctly, that a first assessment of the mobile surveillance of foreign nationals by the european commission is not contrary to the schengen treaty. if this mobile surveillance of foreigners is to be misused to impede the free movement of european citizens, we are on the wrong track. but if the dutch minister says, precisely because of the problem of illegality, that i am responsible for mobile surveillance of foreigners and i also know that there are dutch judges who have difficulty with this, then i think that the dutch minister can continue, but again, under community supervision.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it has been six weeks since the gruesome videos of the hula massacre found their way to the internet. murdered children were considered a ‘tipping-point’ by many but, just like the words ‘never again’, this phrase sounds terribly hollow. even as the assad regime continues its all-out war against the syrian population, numerous brave syrians are still willing to pay the highest price when protesting peacefully for freedom and respect for their rights and dignity. defected military personnel speak of the ‘blessing’ of dying through government forced lethal injection in preference to bleeding to death after torture. we must tell, but more importantly show, the syrian population we will not forget them. what does responsibility to protect even mean at this point? sadly solutions in syria are not easy. the new action group for syria identified steps to ensure full implementation of kofi annan’s six-point plan and the security council resolution must come forward as soon as possible. but let us not be distracted. and in that respect i welcome the restraint in turkey’s response – despite the clear provocation by syria in shooting down the fighter jet and killing the air force pilots. my thoughts go out to the families of these two pilots that lost their lives. we welcome the participation of china and russia in the action group but regret the cynical choice, thus far, of putting interests before the lives of people. yet we have to acknowledge that russia must be a part of the solution to the crisis, however hard that may be. in the eu, and especially during the cyprus presidency, we also bear huge responsibility, and should lead an open and transparent investigation into how a russian ship carrying weapons could reach syrian shores after docking in a cyprus port and being identified by the cyprus authorities. this parliament has urged catherine ashton to start a full investigation but so far no real assurances have been given. when unenforced, eu sanctions are merely a paper reality and that does nothing to help the syrian people.
i would like to put two things to the council, to the representatives of the high representative, in the light of the dramatic situation in syria. i would like to ask for european support for the peaceful internal popular movement musalaha, which means reconciliation, reconciliation from below, interreligious, interethnic. i hope that this will also receive the support and attention of the eu delegation in damascus. that's point one. point 2 - in a previous debate on syria in this chamber, in a plenary session, i called for a european eye and heart for the extremely difficult situation of syrian christians. if you read what is happening in homs at the moment, where hundreds of christians are trapped like rats, including a similar number of sunnis, if you read - and the reports keep coming to me - about kidnappings for exorbitant ransoms and then murders in cold blood of christians, you will understand that we are talking about a really critical and dramatic situation. i hope that the european union will take note of this, especially at home in syria, and not focus too much on the external opposition.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the egyptian people have been joined by us and many across the world in celebrating the historic moment of the election of the first president to be elected democratically and, most importantly, as a non-military president. or, so it seems. as the supreme council of the armed forces dissolved the parliament and extended its own powers – reaching into the sphere of legislative and executive powers – we also stand with the egyptian people in understanding that there is a long way to go before egypt is truly democratic. the question is what president morsi will be able to change, given that the essential elements of a democracy, such as a separation of powers and the rule of law, are not in place. effectively egyptians are still living under military rule. we ask the new president to abolish immediately military trials for civilians and martial law. it is unacceptable that so many people are still in prison for their political convictions, and it is even more unacceptable that today people are still being sentenced without a proper trial. egypt will only be able to claim to be democratic if these military trials come to an absolute end, and if the human rights of all egyptians are respected. the eu, led by vice-president/high representative ashton, should engage with the egyptians and pressure all those in power to respect the rights of all egyptians. elections should be free and should lead to a parliament which truly represents the people and which is equipped with legislative powers. we will give president morsi the benefit of the doubt, while confirming that the eu’s ‘more for more’ principle of granting more market access in return for more respect for human rights, democracy and minority rights – specifically those of women – will be respected. we will judge old and new powers in egypt on their actions, and will remain ready to help ensure that this difficult but important transitional period brings an actual improvement worthy of the word ‘revolution’ – a turning point from repression to freedom.
for the epp group i have learned from my contact with christians in egypt last night that they are very concerned about the present situation in their homeland. the reassuring words and gestures of the new president and muslim brother mohammed morsi do not in the least allay their fears of eventual loss of their habitat by islamist forces. after all, since the fall of the mubarak regime, the muslim brotherhood has broken its promises at least three times at crucial moments. i therefore urge the high representative to have an eye and a heart for the civil legal position of the christian minority in eu contacts with the egyptian authorities. a second point on which i would ask the high representative to make a commitment to cairo is the maintenance of the now frozen peace treaty with neighbouring israel. the european union must therefore demand that the egyptian military leadership restore the security situation in the sinai desert, while at the same time effectively protecting and guaranteeing the southern border with israel.
i have a request to make to you, mr president. we have seen the elections in egypt. we are fortunate to have a freely elected president for the first time, mr morsi. and he's having a hard time because before he could start, the military has already stripped him of some of his powers. i would suggest that this european parliament should hurry up and invite president morsi to speak to us here, to send a signal to egypt that we are talking to honestly and freely elected representatives and presidents and that we see him as our point of contact and not the army. that is my request to you and i think that if this european parliament accepts such a request, we will be putting the heart of the egyptian people and the president in the seat.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank both commissioner potočnik and danish minister auken warmly, not only for their dedication and their fighting spirit in rio but also for the way in which they cooperated with our informal parliamentary delegation. we had high hopes that rio+20 would deliver something that we need in this world, but we have to be realistic. the rio+20 document is a huge disappointment and a huge missed opportunity. what is quite threatening is that the eu was totally isolated in rio. there were several reasons for this. first of all, the developing world, along with the united states of america, does not want any restrictions on its growth ambitions. secondly – and i am still not certain whether this is really the case – the eu might have realised too late that the rest of the world considered rio+20 a social summit instead of a sustainability summit. however, i am not only pessimistic about rio. i felt there was a growing awareness that business as usual will not deliver the growth that countries need, and that greening the economy is a necessity. even the countries that were deliberately trying to get rid of all ambitions in the final outcome were, at the same time, working on the ground, with organisations like the united nations environment programme, to green their own economies. i think that is a very promising development. right now it is important to consider how to move forward. i strongly believe that the eu needs a very pragmatic approach. we have to establish bilateral partnerships with countries that want to green their economy: for example on trade relations, giving preferential treatment to countries that want to green their economies through our development policy – and it was a good thing that development commissioner piebalgs was present in rio. this is the type of approach that we need, and i think that, at the multilateral level, the eu can also play a crucial role in pursuit of the sustainable development goals. in conclusion, the top-down approach did not work. i think it is time for a much stronger bottom-up approach which includes the business community.
i am sure that i have no doubt of your good intentions, but i think we can all agree that rio+20 has produced a very disappointing result. the rio summit aimed to reach concrete agreements and guidelines on sustainable and social development and poverty reduction. despite the high cost and the uproar that rio has brought, this has clearly not succeeded. in the run-up to the summit, parliament stressed the need for measures to increase the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency worldwide, stressing that this does not include nuclear energy, which is not a sustainable source. and in the run-up to the conference, i also called for much less deforestation, especially in latin america. thirty-six soccer fields are cut down every minute worldwide, much of it in brazil. it is strange, then, that in rio de janeiro there has been almost no agreement on this. if we don't do it now, when will we? that is also true of europe. the rainforests of latin america are being cut down to grow gmos for the european market. europe is therefore partly responsible for these imports of soya and must put restrictions on them. perhaps we can save at least a few football fields a minute. and then there's gender equality. the un's final document is completely meaningless. when will we finally address gender equality in the context of sustainable development? millions of women are waiting for an answer. i hope that in eu policy we will simply stick to the ambitious plans we had in advance and not sink to the level of rio.
thank you, mr president, and thank you, mr commissioner, also for your work in rio de janeiro, and thank you for saying very realistically that rio simply did not bring what we hoped it would bring. in fact, we can conclude that 20 years ago politics was still ahead, but now in 2012 politics is hopelessly behind the movements and changes we see in society. and that's a painful thing to see as a politician. but we must also be critical of europe's role. did europe play well in rio de janeiro? first of all , the question: was europe on time to bring its green economy theme? what did we mean by that? and was it not true that for some countries in europe the green economy is mainly business as usual, with a small green margin, and not that real transition to a new economy, as you may think about it. but we all know that europe is certainly not yet unanimous on this. that is the second problem of europe: the credibility. in rio de janeiro we are calling for a real transition to a new economy. but what about us? look at how we're getting out of this crisis. it's business as usual. the commission is also simply giving more money to build new roads in greece and that is the way out of the crisis? it's too narrow! thirdly, what did we bring to rio? we asked for everything, but in the end we had too little to bring. we have two things to do now, and it's very simple. we must show ourselves that we are really serious about the green economy and secondly with those countries which also want to take a real step towards a new economy, such as mexico and south korea. because the only new economy will be green or not.
colleagues, let's be honest, this is a very thin agreement. we have 53 pages to tell you little news: we encourage, we emphasize, we underline, we reaffirm. it is a call to action, in effect, to finally do what we had agreed to do years ago. two years after the first major un conference in stockholm in 1972, a dutch poet wrote: anything of value is defenseless. and now, almost 40 years later, we have to conclude that sustainability, that environment, that social rights actually still have insufficient place in our global economic system. of course, steps have been taken, as the commissioner has already said, for example in the area of the marine environment. but now it will be a question of the will to turn vague words into concrete actions. and, ladies and gentlemen, some of you may not like to hear this, but the business community also has a role to play in this, for example in developing and drawing up ambitious sustainability criteria. the european union, commissioner, must take the lead in translating these rather vague words into concrete actions. but we will do so in a way that will also inspire the rest of the world to take action. international, because for example our debate on whether we should go from 20% to 30% co2 emissions in europe, that difference is equivalent to 1.7 days of emissions in china. it's international, you know. i wish the european commission and myself every success in this endeavour. since i have about a minute left, may i remind mr helmer, who has of course already left, that the uk government has had to adapt its plan that protects london against floods with the thames barrier. i come from a country that saw a big flood in 1953 in which thousands of people died. i wish for the united kingdom that the same does not happen to them. sea water levels are rising and my country and mr helmer's country have to protect themselves against the north sea, but i am afraid that mr helmer's party will only recognize climate change by the time that more than one million people in the london area have wet feet.
thank you, commissioner, for your presence in rio and your dedication to the subject. but if one thing is clear, great idealistic world summits are more of a 20th century thing, because in the 21st century we are asking for a different approach, a very concrete approach. another thing is clear, namely that if the agenda is about everything - because the rio agenda was very broad - then it is ultimately about nothing. so we see that in the conclusions of this summit. what is hopeful is the real concern about the plastic soup in the ocean, the huge plastic garbage mountain floating in the sea. what we see now is only the tip of the iceberg, for many small parts are already found in fish and birds. the final document states that a significant reduction must be achieved by 2025 and that action must be taken. can you be more specific? who does what, when and how much? will there be any agreement on the elimination of free plastic bags or bottles? and if we are to lead by example, when will europe do so? two other things. i have another question for you. natural resources are mainly used for industry, energy and meat production. but the impact of our meat consumption and production is not really mentioned in the final document, whereas the increasing meat consumption is taking a heavy toll on the raw materials and on the land - and because of the need for animal feed on huge areas of land, as has already been said here, forests are being cut down. what proposals have you made for this? we want to lead by example, not by agreeing percentages at major world conferences. and the strongest incentive that europe can give now is to show that we can get out of this crisis with green production and consumption.
commissioner, i must compliment you on your objectives. it is clear that the way we have been working together on a global scale in recent years through such huge, giant conferences is no longer working. i therefore also want to support the call made by mr florenz. don't go to these conferences anymore. come up with something new and set the standard in europe. because if we set the standard in europe, it will become the world standard. we do not need those 45 000 people who are all flying business class to rio and polluting the world for ten years to the extent that we have to have two more days of conferences to make up for it with legislation. i also think that we should think about how we can stimulate our economy by means of those high standards which will restore employment in europe. i think we can do that and we will achieve much more than 45 000 people dancing around a hot stove without any result.
author. − mr president, we have fought long and hard to address, at last, the extensive violence against lgbt people in africa. sadly, even in the house, too many members are unwilling to condemn the murder of other human beings only because of their sexual orientation. it is shocking and does not suit the europe i believe in. the problem we are facing is serious and systemic if we consider that, out of the 76 countries worldwide where homosexuality is illegal, 38 are in africa. in several african countries we see the so-called ‘corrective’ rape of women who are alleged to be lesbians. when such crimes are committed the perpetrator should face justice, and where there is institutionalised criminalisation this should end. let me also highlight some good news. archbishop desmond tutu has spoken out calling for an end to these kinds of injustice. it is important to have more role models like him joining this call. the eu should continue to work with partners and civil society organisations and continue to lead the way in combating violence and discrimination against lgbt people throughout the world. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue card answer. − i did not necessarily hear a question. let me just say that, over three years of negotiating urgency resolutions on universal human rights, there have been countless instances where members of this house have tried to eliminate any reference to lgbt rights and violations of the rights of people, whether through discrimination, violence or murder. i want to highlight the fact that this is regrettable and damaging to our credibility in the eu. human rights are universal; lgbt rights are human rights and that is the end of the story. i think it is important that we highlight the vulnerabilities in our own community by addressing these important issues.
author. − mr president, even though mr poczobut was released from custody, he still faces charges of libel which seem to target him as a result of his journalistic activities and as a member of the polish minority population, and sadly he is not the only one. the situation of human rights defenders, civil society representatives, journalists, and citizens in general in belarus is seriously deteriorating. freedom of expression, including online on the internet, is under real pressure. sadly this is also taking place with the help of eu-based companies who have exported technologies to belarus to facilitate this repression. this kind of aiding and abetting of human rights violations through technologies made in europe should end. it is indeed the last dictatorship in europe and we should act to turn that around and make it a democracy as soon as we can. the eu should give a clear signal to the belarusian authorities that they are not welcome at the eastern partnership meeting in brussels at the end of this month. eu engagement with belarus is already subject to strict conditionality, and the belarusian authorities should commit to respect for human rights and the rule of law as they stated themselves in the declaration of the prague eastern partnership summit of 2009. meanwhile, we should step up our engagement with belarusian civil society organisations and promote more intense people-to-people contact. simply put, any and all restrictions on freedom of association, assembly, opinion and expression in belarus need to be lifted. respecting these freedoms is among the very basic cornerstones of democracy which, ironically, the belarusian authorities have committed themselves to respect. we may have to consider additional sanctions and indeed step up our efforts to ensure that the eu sanctions in place are enforced so that they are not just a paper reality.
author. − mr president, last month the world was informed through the internet that feng jiamei was abducted and underwent a forced abortion when seven months pregnant. local authorities did take action, but this was by no means an isolated incident. infanticide, which is the killing of newborn babies, as well as the massive sex-selective abortions that take place in china, are happening in the context of the one-child policy. these sex-selective abortions have led to a deviation in expected demography by as much 40 million – i just want to repeat this – 40 million missing girls. people should be able to make their own choices about planning whether to have children or not and they should be able to do so in a safe way. any form of coercion is wrong, first of all, and disproportionately targets women. it is important that all women have access to reproductive health care as a fundamental right, including family planning and assisted childcare. it is time that the un, and un women, started investigating what is happening in china in a systematic manner. lastly, let me highlight the fact that this case, which thankfully has sparked so much discussion in china and in europe, came to our attention as a result of the internet, which allowed this story to spread. so let us also focus on the importance of internet freedom and fighting mass censorship, including in china.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. sorry i'm a little late. traffic was a little backed up, and i still have to drive a couple hundred miles. unfortunately, we do not yet have a european standard for traffic. i would like to thank my colleague lara comi very much for her cooperation. as mr malcolm harbour said, cooperation has been excellent. i believe that standardisation is good for industry, for our economy and ultimately for consumers. as europe, we can set the world standard a little easier, and this continent will really count as an economic continent in the world. it is therefore good that we are making it easier to set the standard with this directive. that it's voluntary and that it can work, that's what it shows. after all, a few years ago, i set up a plan with commissioner günther verheugen to standardise the plugs for phone chargers and in 2014 also the plugs for i-pad chargers. the standard in general will make it much easier for industry to bring new products to market and it will also bring a lot of satisfaction to consumers. once again, lara, thank you for your time.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will start by noting that, as so often during these difficult debates, the council is absent. apparently it has no interest in cases of human rights violations that took part partly in its name. first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job. it is, unfortunately, not the first time and probably also not the last time we will be debating this. the member states are in denial, and if i listen to my esteemed ppe colleague, the ppe group is also in denial. what has happened cannot be justified. if the same acts had been committed by other countries – for example arab countries – we would have a full room here; the council would be here and we would be very quick to condemn those actions. but because they have been committed with the support of european countries, we do not feel that we have to answer to the world. we have lost moral authority and credibility, and i think there is a bitter irony in the fact that we help to unseat dictators like gaddafi, like mubarak, like mr assad (who is still there) who not so long ago were our allies in shipping people to those same countries – to the country of mr assad – because he and his friends are so very good at torturing and getting us the information that we want. it is an absolute disgrace that the governments of europe still refuse to answer, to tell people about their responsibility and to offer their apologies. colleagues, this is not about one country or another: we have here a collective responsibility. this is not about romania or lithuania or any other european country, it is about a community of values, and we have a duty – we as the european parliament – we will not forget. we will keep raising this issue until people have been held to account over human rights violations that were committed in our name.
blue-card question. – mr szymański, it may be the translation, but did i really hear you say that people who are suspected of – maybe – committing terrorist acts cannot have the same rights as other citizens? does that mean that you reject the principle that human rights are universal and indivisible? if so, does that also mean that you do not subscribe to all the values that we have enshrined in our treaties?
this is a good day for europe: we are finally tackling sulphur pollution again. we all know that this pollution has a major impact on our air quality and also on our water quality and it is very important that we do something about it. we must also look at shipping in particular, because in 2020 shipping in europe will emit more sulphur than land-based sources. we are simply trying to level the playing field by doing something about shipping. i say this for all the people in this room who are talking about fair play: at present, maritime transport emits 2700 times more sulphur than freight transport. so by tackling sulphur, we're now creating a level playing field. this is a good day for europe and we must continue along this path. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – mr president, i will react to that question and not the other one. i am hearing different things here. you are mixing up what is happening in the baltic sea area and the mediterranean. i do not think there is much competition when you look at transport from the northern and southern parts of europe. it is also not true that there will now be a lot of transportation by trucks because of this legislation, because trucks already have far higher standards for lowering sulphur emissions. i therefore do not see the point you are raising. i also think it is high time for the shipping industry to emit less sulphur, just as trucks are doing right now.
there is certainly no perfect, but a reasonable compromise on the table. it is of course a pity that low-sulphur marine fuel is not mandatory on all european seas. now only the baltic sea, the channel and the north sea are benefiting from the low sulphur content, and that is a pity. but at the same time, it has prevented all the other seas in europe from having to meet the requirements at all. a number of agreements have also been concluded on these seas. this is the maximum that can be achieved at the moment, and i also think it is right that we in parliament should make a clear statement on the so-called shore-side electricity supply. i think that is a huge gain for the inhabitants of a number of ports in europe, such as rotterdam. so, in short: this is the best we've got. i support the hassi report.
many people have said today that it is incredibly good that we are finally taking steps to save energy. it is insane that europe is lagging behind in terms of energy saving, in terms of using less energy, the cheapest, easiest and best option of the climate package that europe has adopted. it is very good that we are taking action there now. but then we must continue with this. i have a question for mr oettinger: when will the ecodesign directive be implemented for boilers? we know that the proposal is there, but when will it come now? that is a very important step to be taken and i expect a concrete answer to my question. the second point is the emissions trading system. there's an incredible amount of air in the emissions trading system, there's a lot of surplus in it, and it's only going to get more. when will the commission take concrete action to remove air from the emissions system so that we can continue to commit ourselves to that part of europe's climate policy?
the power of brussels is fortunately limited by subsidiarity and the treaty. subsidiarity means that brussels does not interfere in matters which the member states can manage themselves. the swedish parliament has officially protested against this directive, but brussels, as always, ignores the interests and sovereignty of the member states. article 194 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union explicitly limits what brussels can do in the field of energy. the article says that brussels cannot interfere with the operation, choice or structure of the energy supply in a member state, whether it is efficient or not. the current proposal on the efficient use of resources is therefore not only contrary to the principle of subsidiarity but has no legal basis whatsoever. why are we voting on this? what brussels is talking about is the organization of the european union itself. and there are certainly efficiency gains to be made. we have huge numbers of civil servants, we get one new agency after another. we have an unimaginably expensive but utterly failed euro policy and all of that is unnecessary. we can at least use our energy more efficiently by talking only about what we are talking about. and let us put an end to this parliament.
eleven years ago, an attack was carried out by islamic terrorists on the freedom of the west, and in particular on our american colleagues. i would greatly appreciate a moment of silence to commemorate the almost three thousand victims of that attack. thank you, sir.
both the german foreign minister and his french counterpart believe that nuclear weapons in iranian hands are unacceptable. what consequences does the european union attach to this position if the negotiations with the iranian regime, as they are now, prove fruitless? that is my first question to the high representative. madam high representative, you were quoted in a press release last saturday on the european sanctions policy against the islamic republic of iran. you speak of the need to check whether the european sanctions are being ignored or even ignored. do you have any concrete indications for that? in the meantime, new sanctions against tehran are being discussed at european ministerial level. can you clarify that? thank you.
for the epp group late last week, jacques beres, co-founder of médecins sans frontières, returned to paris after two weeks of intensive medical care in a hospital in the front city of aleppo. in a candid interview, he said he had treated mostly rebel fighters, at least half of whom were of foreign origin. beres' patients included dozens of fanatical jihadists - this has already been brought up in the debate - including young french citizens. they are seeking the establishment of an islamic state in syria, based on the shari'a. i would like to put two specific questions to you, madam high representative: does the commission share jacques beres' findings on the large number of jihadists on syrian territory and, if so, what implications this has for the european strategy in syria? secondly, how do you intend to deal with the return of european jihadists from the syrian battlefield in the near future?
mr president, after so many debates on syria, i already know what we are going to be hearing from you: it is a terrible tragedy; human rights have to be respected; assad has lost his legitimacy; the eu has imposed sanctions and provided humanitarian aid in cooperation with our partners, etc. etc. but this means nothing any more for the syrian people who are being slaughtered every day, caught between a murderous regime and foreign fighters ranging from hizbollah to al-qaida. i do not think assad is losing sleep over eu sanctions. the options are not easy, but doing nothing is no longer one of them. let us at least enforce our own embargoes effectively. you will understand the shock i experienced at reading the council conclusions on 23 july, one year and two months after eu sanctions and an arms embargo were imposed. i quote: ‘eu countries will be obliged to inspect vessels and aircraft heading to syria if they suspect they contain weapons or equipment for internal repression’. is this what we are coming up with as a result of a council, one year and two months after the imposition of an eu arms embargo? i do not think this does any justice to the eu as a global player. words are no longer enough for the syrian people. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – indeed the role of cyprus is very important here. there have been ships which have docked in cyprus that have later continued on with weapons on board to syria. that is a disgrace. i am surprised, and confused about what a weapons embargo even means if this can continue to happen. if we are not capable of at least enforcing our own actions and words, such as on a weapons embargo and the export of repressive technologies, then we are losing our credibility. i appreciate the complexity of the international reality around syria but i do think that doing nothing – the way we have for the past year and a half – is no longer an option.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. we have also written that in the resolution we have negotiated today. we are both incredibly critical of russia's democratic development. we also know that that country has never had a real democracy and that it is also a learning process that they have to go through. but where we thought we could hope and trust that president medvedev would take office in the right direction, things are now going in the opposite direction. we agree with you that modernising russia means making it more prosperous, but also, and above all, that this leads to the democratization of russian society. it is not just us europeans who see that things are not going well, that the situation is stagnating, it is also the russians themselves. we were in russia a week and a half ago with the eu delegation and we spoke in st petersburg about civil society. we also discussed all the laws you just mentioned. the problem is that you never know where you stand because of the vague and very broad interpretation of civil society . this makes the proper functioning of civil society absolutely impossible. the organizations do not know at what point they can be sued. what are we going to do together to ensure that the rule of law is also respected? that is the only way to modernise.
the fisheries policy must be reformed, because it is all too much and too tightly regulated from brussels. one of the things that is important is sustainable innovation, also in fisheries. unfortunately, sustainable innovation in fisheries cannot always take place. i am referring specifically to the fishing technique of pulse fishing. in this way of fishing , the fish are startled from the sea floor with electric shocks of a few volts . the advantage of this is that the seabed is not damaged and the fuel consumption of the ships is reduced by 40%. there's a lot less by-catch and a lot more yield. so perfect! but unfortunately, at the moment, all forms of electric fishing are prohibited and so is this pulse fishing. there is a temporary exception, but i am calling on the commissioner, too, to make room in the new fisheries policy for this new, innovative and sustainable fishing technique.
there is no doubt that policy must be practicable. the overarching report by mr salafrakos rightly points out that the prohibition of discarding with the landing obligation for mixed fisheries is very problematic. compromise proposals for the basic regulation will be worked on in the near future. let us therefore make sure that there are no unworkable rules in the regulation. it would be wrong to put the mixed fisheries sector under pressure by imposing an unworkable discard ban. so let us see what objectives for mixed fisheries are feasible and at the same time ambitious.
for the greens/efa group first of all, i would like to thank mrs jiménez-becerril barrio and mrs parvanova, who have joined forces here to put forward a new european directive which is really going to change the european criminal procedure. i've had a long time to think about it myself and get used to the idea that our justice system is going to change by empowering victims. but i've gotten used to the idea and i've come to find it charming. it is also crucial for the greens that in this new law for victims we do not distinguish between people who have legal status and people who do not. for example, if you are a victim of human trafficking and you are in the european union without documents, this directive should ensure that you report it and that you are assisted in your criminal proceedings. so, we think it's crucial that you get shelter, translation, medical care and psychological support. but this leads - and this strengthened european cooperation in the field of justice is now a clear example - to a shortage of legal aid. this really calls for european rules on legal aid, because obtaining your rights on paper is something different from actually obtaining them in court. victims will feel that way, suspects already do. but without minimum standards for legal aid in the european union, this is not enough.
for months, we have been watching from the outside world a political soap opera in romania: one politician after another is accused of corruption, fraud and other shady deeds. romania is currently showing itself politically as a kind of banana politics. but we already knew that. the romanian politicians will certainly not receive awards for decisive action and transparency of governance. but these are romanian problems, and they are the ones that the voters in romania are voting for year after year. it may be a mess, but it's their mess, their own sovereign choice. the european union must keep out of internal political turmoil and elections. the european commission is constantly crossing its borders by imposing eu dictates on sovereign states. as soon as there are elections in sovereign countries, the eurocrats rush over one another to interfere in those elections. eu commissioners from the countries concerned are welcome to be used. in the netherlands, kroes had to put her euro-philosophy in the papers if necessary, and in finland olli rehn was never far away. in romania, mrs reding and mr barroso felt it necessary to get involved in internal affairs. this is unacceptable behavior for unelected officials, who should not interfere with democratic processes in sovereign countries.
i am listening to this debate with increasing amazement. we have had a few debates in this house, first on the situation in italy, then on the situation in hungary and now in romania. it's so transparent how the cards are being shuffled. this time mr weber of the ppe group praises mrs reding for the investigations she is conducting on romania and mr swoboda says that the popularity of the president of romania has been greatly diminished. we are taking sides, and this is because we are still not all of us in agreement on the basic rule that the copenhagen criteria should also apply to those countries which are already members of the european union. we keep on catching each other's flies here in this parliament, we suggest that it is partisan debates because we refuse to judge people by what we should judge them by. my question to you is: if the elections are held on 9 december, will we have mrs reding's research in front of us? or should we wait for the elections there and watch these undemocratic tendencies unfold without further details?
there is still a persistent lack of confidence in our banking sector, and small and mediumsized businesses are paying the price, because they have difficulty borrowing money. and that is crucial for growth and jobs. i commend commissioner barnier for the proposals he has presented today. the direction is right, the ecb has the power to intervene. but we have to look at how this is set up. a few points of interest. we must not disturb the single market, but strengthen it. this means a strong role for the eba as the guardian of the single european rulebook. but how will that work in the future? is it revoked by the ecb with additional capital or liquidity requirements? how does that compare? and also, should we extend banking supervision as quickly as possible to as many banks as possible in as many member states as possible? that is my second concern. because despite what you say, there is a danger of a wall being erected between banks in countries of the euro zone and outside. there are also banks that have been infected by the crisis virus and there are also many countries, such as poland, hungary and others, that would like to join. we must take this seriously, because we want stability throughout the european union. some member states are already making efforts to dismantle the proposals. but we must strengthen those proposals, and you need the european parliament to do that! that was the case when it came to the establishment of the european supervisory authorities. this was the case in the decision-making process on the six-pack for economic governance. we will play our part in the legislative process, including on proposals where we have a right of opinion, as we have shown in the six-pack. with this package we want to move forward with you to make it as strong as possible for a stronger europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - i thank my colleagues and the rapporteur. i was the rapporteur for an opinion in the committee on the internal market. it is still a pity that this is a directive rather than a regulation, because as you know i am a strong supporter of regulations, which work in the same way in all member states. now, however, you get the different implementations, and that's a shame.
it will be difficult to defend for the general public, when all over europe there are cuts to be made in order to increase the budget of the european union by 6.8%. the alde group, however, believes that it is a consequence of commitments made in the past. contracts are supposed to be honored. if the payments were really to be reduced, there is one very simple solution: i think that the commission should be more careful in its approach to the problem. the alde group has tried to do this in this budgetary procedure. we have said that for those countries which are misusing their structural funds the obligations could be reduced by 5%. unfortunately, this proposal could not be supported by a majority and we have not tabled it again. but we are very much of the opinion that commitments must be honoured. if the budgetary authority, the council and parliament, have first voted to implement certain projects and the contracts have been concluded, then it is not possible to say afterwards 'unfortunately we have to cut back now' and 'we do not have the money'. it can't be! a government that respects itself must honor its contracts. in addition, every year money is being returned to the member states, and that is because the accounts which we are now presented with were not presented early enough. the alde group does not believe that if these bills are submitted late, they should not be paid. we therefore find it very difficult to defend this 6.8% increase in the budget. we are fully prepared to listen to the council, we are always prepared to be persuaded, but at the moment we think that the commission's arguments are stronger than the council's arguments. i would also like to ask the council: is it true that the original estimates submitted by the member states were even higher than the 6.8% that the council is now asking for? i would like to have an official reply from the council. were the original estimates of the member states, which the member states requested individually and not collectively, higher than the 6,8% or not? as things stand, we will support the position of the committee on budgets.
mr lewandowski, since i arrived in strasbourg yesterday, i saw a number of elderly gentlemen playing football and children playing skateboard and football in the sun at noon. i have to think of them today as we discuss the 2013 budget. how do i explain to them that the commission wants to increase the 2013 budget by 6.8%? i can tell them that the council of ministers was subsequently angry about that increase and did not want to agree to it. but my explanation becomes impossible if i have to tell them that this european parliament wants to increase the commission's increase even further, and even to almost 7%! i cannot explain that, mr president, and i do not want to. we cannot burden our parents who built our countries and our children who hope to live in them in the future with such a terrible budget proposal from the commission and this parliament. the most sensible thing we can do today is to throw the commission's proposal line by line into the trash and ask for a new budget proposal, this time with substantial cuts and a sharp reduction in the 2013 budget. the pvv cannot settle for less and i hope that neither can any sensible member of the european parliament. the proposed 2013 budget is a disgrace and i reject it outright on behalf of the dutch citizens who, according to mr schulz, are staring at the navel.
governments and citizens across europe and in large parts of the world are being forced to cut back. but what do we see? the committee on budgets here wants to increase the budget by almost 7%. you're wondering on what planet this unimaginable decision was made. my group has tabled amendments to reduce the budget. we must abandon the megalomaniacal project of the house of european history. the european agencies and the european external action service must also be checked to see if they are spending the budget wisely. why, mr president, has the european railway agency had two workplaces 45 kilometres apart? why does the european external action service have almost 50 staff on the sunny island of barbados? at least that's how important transparency is. and that has to start with ourselves. i have again proposed that the general expenses allowance for members should be made transparent. if we include this point in the resolution, the european parliament will gain credibility, and i think that is very important.
since the arab uprisings, there has been a worrying increase in anti-semitic expressions in the mediterranean countries and this poison must be fought. i have therefore tabled two amendments aimed at combating anti-semitism in the context of financial cooperation with the mediterranean countries. i am very, very pleased that the committee on budgets has adopted these amendments. but this result, mr president, must not be changed. the epp group has in fact requested that we vote on the anti-semitism clause. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the amendments are nos 1241 and 1192 to the budget lines 1908-01 and 1908-02.
the european year of citizens is being organised again, and it is getting cheaper! in 2010, it cost 27 million euros, in 2011 it cost 11 million euros and now it could cost as much as 1 million euros! but what does the commission want to achieve with one million, which it has not achieved with a multiple of that amount? the commission intends to spend the money on translating and disseminating propaganda for the european project. does it help citizens to understand the union and the institutions? no, of course not! as long as the union is restricting freedom and harming the economy, no citizen can understand what is being decided in brussels. the creation of a european identity then. well, ask the greeks how they're doing, they got a hundred billion in gifts. the commission is coming here with a proposal that no citizen has asked for and in which the commission itself does not believe. that is what this budget shows. and, mr president, this 1 million euro is also wasted money.
the rapporteur. - mr president, in addition to the excellent report by mr charles goerens, i should like to make three comments. the agenda for change rightly calls for a better link between emergency aid and development policy. in my own country, the netherlands, there are votes to limit our road to emergency aid, which is an absurd idea. now, providing only emergency aid in, say, mali is disastrous and not in our best interest. looking no further than the hunger among the refugees in northern mali means pure profit for the muslim fanatics who are imposing sharia law despite strong protests from the local population. providing al qaeda with a safe haven, making northern mali a hotbed, an afghanistan close to our borders. turning a blind eye to northern mali also benefits latin american criminals who are increasingly free in west africa to transport cocaine across the sahara to europe via the ports of ivory coast and guinea-bissau. to do so means to support the peace operation and to work actively in mali to build a future for the region, including the tuaregs. president, in 2015 we must have global agreements on how we will ensure that after that year everyone has the chance to get out of poverty. that requires a public debate. it would be good if the european union declared 2015 the year of development cooperation. i would like to hear from commissioner piebalgs if he can help us to get this done. finally, without open democracy, equal opportunities are an illusion. as long as the poorest have no voice in their capitals, their interests are not respected there. that is why it is so important to invest in making the voice of the poorest heard, in local and regional parliaments, in civil society organisations such as ngos of minorities and of women. the european commission is taking this approach, supported by the european parliament. i hope the council will also agree with this.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. but what always seems to me to be a problem is that in times of economic crisis we change our view of our development cooperation policy. that could very well be the case if we were very, very clever and if we said that our starting point is policy coherence and that we are going to put real pressure on trade and investment in development cooperation. but if we do not do that and if we are really looking at how we can use our official development aid funds, then i am still very much afraid, mr piebalgs, that we are in the process of organizing the arguments for the opposition, and that is: you can do it more efficiently, so you can do it with less money. i see that in my own country, where the contribution to development cooperation has fallen from 0.8% of gross national product to 0.7% of gross national product, and i will see that in more countries. my question to you, mr piebalgs, is therefore also: when are we gonna do something smart? when will we start to take honest trading and honest investing as our starting point?
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - the committee on budgetary control naturally considers that the most important thing is that the money is spent properly. this requires the court of auditors to issue a positive das, a positive declaration of reliability. we hope that the das will not be negative again for the umpteenth time in november. the committee on budgetary control strongly believes that the national member state declaration is the means to achieve this. someone in a member state must take political responsibility for the eu money that is spent. the new financial regulation which we are likely to adopt today creates the possibility for this. we in the committee on budgetary control believe that the commission should take this opportunity to encourage member states to make such a declaration and to treat those member states which do so better in terms of controls than those which do not. so , what do you say ? the stick and the carrot as they say in english.
president, mr lewandowski, yesterday we were talking about the 2013 budget, today we are talking about the budget for the years after. fortunately, the british prime minister has already threatened to veto the multibillion-dollar budget, and i advise our dutch prime minister rutte to do the same. - why? - why? to teach the commission that threats to national parliaments cannot go unpunished. to remind the commission that it is those same national parliaments that decide on the purse of europe and not the euro-clique here. to call for an end to all these committees and agencies which do nothing to contribute to national objectives. and above all, to let the commission know that it must not think that european taxes will ever be passed. if the commission does not want to listen, it must feel. fortunately, the netherlands, as a member state, has the right to veto, as does the united kingdom. as far as the pvv is concerned, i'd like to see it as soon as possible.
it is a pity that the european commission has a deficit of 10 billion euros and therefore wants half a billion euros from the dutch taxpayer. while brussels is asking the netherlands to keep its budget within the 3% threshold, it is not able to keep its own budget within the 3% threshold. president, the eu cannot go beyond its budget. if that fails, it is the fault of this commission and not the member states. the commission should be ashamed of itself. while a new government is being formed in the netherlands, which is trying to raise millions in all sorts of ways, this commission is shamelessly asking for half a billion euros. the debate here on the multiannual financial framework is completely useless if the commission is not able to keep its commitments. this hypocritical attitude of the commission, combined with its absolutely unreasonable demands on the mff, makes me increasingly anxious for a hard veto from several member states.
the council's conclusions are another exercise in opening doors. the simulation of growth, the implementation of the 2020 strategy and the further elaboration of the eu, we have all heard it before. you can hold as many meetings as you like, but as long as you stick your head in the sand over the fundamental problems of the european union, the situation will only get worse and worse. a single currency for a continent of such diversity is doomed to failure. we must cherish this diversity and not turn our backs on even more centralisation and control from brussels. that's not worth the euro. moreover, a majority of citizens in europe do not want to transfer more powers to brussels. everybody knows that, unless you're blind. we are all democrats, aren't we? why are these social signals not taken seriously? what must happen before you finally come to your senses and reach the inevitable conclusion that you can't go on. more economic contraction, unemployment and social unrest? this project is completely derailed politically, economically and democratically. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. that is a good thing for democracy and a chance for economic recovery.
the summit discussed banking supervision and the plans call for the ecb to become the supervisor. but by buying up large-scale government bonds of dubious quality, the ecb has become part of the crisis. the ecb must first regain its independence by no longer inflating its balance sheet with government and bank debt. the ecb may then exercise banking supervision, provided that banking supervision and monetary supervision are functionally separated and provided that such separation does not imply that banking supervision should be placed under the political control of the european parliament. the stability and growth pact has shown that political control does not work. moreover, banking supervision is not the cure for all problems, because the continuing concern about greece, portugal, spain and italy forces us to have a lively discussion about the future of the euro. in addition, painful solutions must also be seriously discussed.
president of the commission. − mr president, first of all regarding the assessment of this european council, some of you have probably noted that in my initial statement i mentioned three european council summits. i did that on purpose because this summit was important in terms of confirming some earlier decisions. that represents some progress already because the reality is that, unfortunately, doubts existed as to the commitment of some governments regarding decisions they had taken previously. in fact, though, the final decisions on some of those most important matters will come later, namely regarding the emu in december and regarding the mff, hopefully, in november. so my assessment of this european council is that it was certainly a step forward in terms of previous decisions being confirmed, but it was not yet the comprehensive response needed for the current challenges in the euro area and in the european union. i consider this a fair assessment of the results of this european council. of course we have to know that we are working on extremely sensitive matters where, to be frank, the initial positions of our member states are very diverse and where the interest, i believe, of all the european institutions is to create the right conditions for consensus and operational decisions. one point where there was some progress was on the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) and i am also glad that this debate today has shown a broad degree of consensus on the principles set out in the commission proposals and reflected in the european council conclusions. these include, most importantly, that the ssm should cover all banks, that there needs to be openness – as full as possible – and to have as full as possible participation by the non-euro member states which so wish, and that the ssm is a key element in proving that the european union is capable of moving forward, of restoring confidence, deepening the emu and opening up the way to decisions on bank recapitalisation by the esm. i particularly welcome the determination expressed by parliament, namely by rapporteur ms thyssen, to advance the ssm work so that we can reach a quality result by the end of 2012. the commission will work closely with you to further improve the ssm proposals and open the way for the operational phasing-in of the system in 2013 – as had in fact been proposed by the commission – starting with systemic banks and eventually extending to all banks in the euro area and participating non-euro area member states. another important issue that was mentioned here – i think it was a question by mr mauro – was the sense of urgency. i want to tell you that i made that urgency clear. the reality once again, if you want to be honest in our assessment, is that not all member states feel the same degree of urgency. this is probably due to the fact that they are in different financial and fiscal positions, but i believe that it is important for the credibility of our response that this response is properly prepared. some of these issues are extremely difficult from a political and technical point of view but the decisions should be as urgent as possible. another issue that was raised concerned a social pact for europe. how can we complement some of these decisions with proper consideration of the social dimension? the elements proposed in the social pact are, to a large extent, already reflected in the europe 2020 strategy. that is, let us not forget, a strategy for inclusive growth, and in fact the macroeconomic imbalance procedure has been an integral part of the implementation of this strategy during the second european semester. this has implied a number of new challenges for all of us, notably in terms of ensuring that the labour market and social issues are adequately reflected and assessed within this new framework. this integration results from the fact that economic growth and employment and social aspects are two sides of the same coin. it was interesting to see in the debate that many people are speaking about having a real minister for finance in europe. they should probably also be thinking about having a real minister for the economy in europe, so that we complete the work on financial stability with a commitment to sustainable growth and also to the economic and social dimension. employment and social cohesion are not just an outcome of economic growth but are also an important determinant. the commission strongly believes that our values of social justice, solidarity and equal opportunities must remain at the heart of european integration and continue to be understood as prerequisites for our future economic prosperity, for the well-being of european citizens and for european cohesion. they must also appear in the european union’s growth agenda. at the beginning of 2013 the commission will present a social investment for growth and cohesion package which will also address various aspects mentioned under what some of you have described as the social pact. the message i want to convey to you is that, yes, we are doing everything we can with the tools and instruments available at european level to inject this economic and social dimension into the broader response to the current crisis in the economic situation of the european union. regarding the future responses on mutualisation of debt, you know what our position is. the commission has stated it and we will also address this issue in the blueprint i have mentioned. one point i want to make clear, and that i do not agree with, is the position of those who say that they are in favour of the content of the two-pack, they are in favour of more integration in supervision of budgetary policy, they are in favour of reinforcing the competence of the commission and the european institutions, the community method, in terms of economic governance, but they will not support this – they will not approve it – before decisions are taken on other issues like the redemption fund. this is a mistake. it is a mistake because if you make progress on one very important issue in the european union dependent on other issues, where you know very well that there is not yet agreement between all our member states, you are in fact paralysing progress and economic governance in the euro area. that is a choice for you to make, but my strong advice to all the pro-european forces is to support everything that enables us to put as much as possible under the community method and in the european institutions and this is certainly the case with the two-pack proposals. now another issue which was mentioned was the situation regarding some statements made by the imf. i want to be clear on this aspect as well. the reason we have this crisis today, contrary to what some euro-sceptics suggest, is not because of the euro area. we have a crisis today in the european union economy because of excessive debt created by national governments and because of the irresponsible financial behaviour in some sectors, including outside of europe. so europe was not the cause of the problem, europe is indeed the victim of the problem and is now trying to be part of the solution. this is the reality. (applause)it was irresponsible behaviour in terms of the excessive debt of public authorities and the sometimes completely irresponsible behaviour of some actors in the financial sector which created the problem. the proof of this – that this is not the problem of the euro – is that, for instance mr farage, your own country, which is not a member of the euro, is now implementing a very difficult austerity package. the british people are suffering the consequences of past mistakes. it was not the euro that created the britain’s problems. (loud applause)so it is intellectually – i repeat – it is politically and intellectually dishonest to pretend that the euro is the cause of our problems. in fact, it is the european union that is part of the solution because, without the support of other countries in the euro area, some of our member states would not have the financing necessary to keep their states running, to keep their social services, to keep their national health systems, to keep their public education. this is the reality. so europe is part of the solution and now we have to do everything we can to stabilise the euro area and to create the conditions for growth. but what growth? sustainable growth! not the growth of the past. the growth fuelled by excessive debt is not sustainable. the growth fuelled by irresponsible private credit is not sustainable, as we have seen. we have to return to conditions for growth that is sustainable. this why the imf, like the commission, like the ecb, is in favour of fiscal consolidation. what the imf said, and we can completely agree with this, is that the situation is different in some member states and so those countries which have the margin to promote growth in terms of internal demand can do so, and in some cases there can be fine tuning of the objectives. indeed i want to make it very clear that it was the commission which proposed, and we were supported by the imf, but it was the commission which proposed one more year for portugal and spain to reach the budget consolidation targets. it was our proposal, not the imf’s proposal. so, first for spain and then for portugal, the commission recommended to the council that the deadline for correction of excessive deficit be extended by one year. our fiscal rules, the revised stability and growth pact, allow for this: when the economic situation turns out to be worse than expected and the reduction of the deficit in structural terms is taking place, an extension of the period to correct a nominal deficit can be granted. this is not automatic. the situation will have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. this was also the position of madam lagarde when she said ‘conseil nécessaire et possible’ which means in english: advice ‘when it is needed and possible’, and this is exactly the position taken by the institutions that are monitoring the situation in some of our countries. in particular, in the case of countries under financial assistance, namely greece, ireland and portugal, one must assess the consequences on that sustainability of a possible prolongation of an adjustment period. prolonging the adjustment period can delay reversing the increase in the government’s debt ratio and put it on a declining trend. this in turn will delay the return of those countries to the market, possibly requiring extra financing, and then comes the question: are the other euro area countries – because decisions are taken by the governments – the commission makes the proposal in the end but i want to make it clear that the decisions are taken ultimately by governments – are the euro area countries ready to provide extra financing? this is an important issue. this means that for programme countries the possible prolongation of the programmes is subject to the severe constraints stemming from high levels of debt. these are also in fact the views of the imf. now, one thing it is important to note and which people have not paid sufficient attention to, is that some of those who are now saying that we should be more, let us say, flexible in terms of the fiscal targets, are exactly the same people as are proposing hard restructuring of debt; are exactly the same people as believe that the euro area is too big, that southern europe should not in fact be in the euro area, that it was a mistake to have those countries in the euro area. this is exactly the point i want to make: we do not agree. we believe we should do everything we can to keep the integrity of the euro area because when you accept more flexibility in terms of fiscal adjustment you have to think what the consequences in terms of deficit stability will be and how we can keep those countries going to the market as soon as possible so that they can finance their own state. it is very important to understand this. this is why in fact i wanted to respond to those direct questions from you, to say that a lot remains to be done, but i believe that this european council was an important moment for discussing the difficulties in a relatively open manner. i am not underestimating in any way the difficulties and challenges ahead. i think we are now coming to a moment where, probably because there is less pressure coming from the markets, the sense of urgency in all of our capitals is not the same. that is why i expect parliament and the commission, as european institutions that keep firmly to the agenda, to understand that, without a complete comprehensive response to the euro area governance, we will not have the necessary conditions of confidence and confidence is critically important to restore investment and growth and jobs. this is our final and ultimate goal. growth and jobs, but i repeat, sustainable growth for sustainable jobs.
the european council - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have spoken and said: 'we must act, we must act now'. i have given you an overview, as you well know, of everything we have done in the last two or three years, and some of you have even said: 'you have done a lot, now we must carry out, implement what you have decided.' so we must not create new instruments, as some of you have said, before the instruments we have are put to use. and at the same time, we're told, "we have to act now". what we did was -- i've said this many times -- unimaginable a year ago, two years ago. in fact, as far as economic and monetary union is concerned, i have to say - and you have also been able to say this thanks to mrs thyssen's excellent report - that we have already made great progress in economic union and budgetary union and banking union itself. so we have to do more work, but we have come a long way. but what has been underestimated - and i think we all have to admit this, both at the level of the member states and in all the institutions - is the extent, the depth, the gravity of the crisis in some of our countries. the loss of competitiveness, the loss of debt sustainability, has been so great that it takes much longer to rectify the situation. we must not imagine for a moment that with a deficit of 15%, as in a country with a debt of 160%, we can escape austerity policy. we cannot believe that with 10 to 15% deficits on the current account of the balance of payments in other countries, we are escaping a corrective policy, a corrective policy, an austerity policy. it is not imposed by the european institutions in the first place, it is imposed by the facts, it is the consequence of bad governance in a number of countries for a period of time. and action was not taken in time, either at the level of the member states or at the collective level of the european union. so the so-called austerity policy is not a policy that was imposed from above, it is a policy that was inevitable, totally inevitable. the scale and gravity of the crisis have been underestimated. and we've done -- and it's also an underestimation -- a lot of things in the last two, three years. and it's not over yet. that is why the four presidents of the institutions are working on more initiatives. and one of the key points, where there was a lack, was that financial integration was not sufficient. at the beginning of the financial crisis, we set up three or four institutions, of course, but it was mostly at the level of coordination. now we need institutions that are much more european, that are much more common to everyone. in fact, what we're going to do now, with the single supervision, is kind of an unprecedented breakthrough. of course, we have to work hard. we made that decision in june. the commission launched its proposal in september, but the european council in october set out broad guidelines for ministers to complete the work. you also have your share of responsibility in implementing this banking union and we hope - this is an extremely ambitious timetable - to continue and complete the work by the end of the year. once the legislative framework is decided, there will be all the operational work of setting up this single supervisor by the central bank, and this will also take a number of months. so step by step, but in a serious and constant way, we are also working to make this first pillar of the banking union a truly european pillar. we were told, "we must act". we act, but we act in a serious way, in a way that guarantees a certain quality. if there is a certain slowness, it is partly for this reason. so i would say that we have done a lot of things and we are doing things that are, compared to the past, almost revolutionary when we talk about some of the new institutions that we are going to put in place. are we at the end of the road? no, i'm not going. and that is why we are going to work in the december perspective. my dear colleagues, the work will be much harder than we think, because now, after all that we have done - the six-pack, let us hope that the two-pack will also be implemented, in an expeditious manner - with regard to the stability pact and the growth pact, with all that we have done for the financial assistance mechanisms, with all that we have done in all these areas, we are really touching now the hard core of sovereignty and the hard core of solidarity. the next step will therefore be a qualitative leap. we shall also achieve this step by step, and i can assure you that this debate will not be a simple one, either in this house or in the european council or in other institutions. the more we go on, the more difficult it becomes to continue to make progress without touching certain taboos which are close to the concept of sovereignty and the concept of solidarity. i warn you, between october and december, the work will be very hard and decisions will have to be made that will affect a number of taboos. we have spoken of a fifth building block, but the social dimension must be an integral part of every policy. this is what we have done for the europe 2020 strategy. mr barroso and i have fought to get this fifth objective of fighting poverty through. it wasn't easy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it was eventually integrated into the europe 2020 strategy. the growth and employment pact is nothing more than a social element. what could be more social than trying to create jobs in extremely difficult circumstances? the social dimension is everywhere. these four building blocks, which i have proposed, are building blocks which are traditional in any economic and monetary union. in fact, no head of state or government of any political party or political orientation has ever questioned them at the european council. we will therefore also be working on this social dimension, as i have just said, in the framework of these four building blocks. it is above all at the level of the member states that social policy is most important. when they make decisions on fiscal consolidation - i was minister of budget for a very long time - they have to assess each measure for its social impact. we need a policy where the strongest shoulders carry the heaviest burdens. that's a general rule. but when it comes to executing it and making it real, it's much more difficult. the social dimension is everywhere, both at the level of the member states and at the level of policies decided at european level. some say, "we must act now for growth". ladies and gentlemen, monetary policy - i do not want to pass judgment - is not restrictive policy when we see that interest rates are, in practice, negative interest rates, that the central bank provides liquidity of 1 000 billion euros at the end of the year. a thousand billion! monetary policy is not restrictive at all. as far as budgetary policy is concerned, are we going to go back to deficit spending? no, you can't! but where possible, we'll soften the trajectory. we have done it for spain, for portugal and we may do it for other countries too. in fact, if we do not continue this effort to consolidate the budget, unfortunately the markets will immediately punish these countries. whatever gains are made by widening the path, they are immediately lost by higher interest rates. so there are not a hundred ways to create economic growth in the very short term. the most important thing in the short term is to restore confidence in the euro area. that's the most important thing. i am sorry to quote some figures, but when we say something positive, we must be careful, because it is not even politically correct to say it. when i look at the differential between the 10-year bond rates in most of our countries and the benchmark which is the german interest rate, when i look at the current situation and compare it with the worst situation of the last 12 months, i see a decrease. in italy, it is 239 points, in spain 249 points, in portugal 800 points, in ireland 900 points and in belgium 270 points. so it's not serious to say that there's no result. i hope that these results will be lasting and the hard lesson to be learned from this is, of course, that in the past we have been wrong many times. maybe i'm the only one who's wrong and some of you are always right! i could be wrong. this result is also a clear sign that we can make progress in restoring trust. if this trend is sustained, consumer and business confidence will also increase, and this will create - and we are already seeing early signs of this - a still too modest recovery in growth in late 2012 and early 2013. restoring confidence in the future of the euro area is the best thing we can do for economic growth in the very short term. it is a work that is being done here, and also in the european council, in a gradual, step-by-step approach. but what we do every time is compare the never-before-seen with the past. we will continue the work in december. in the meantime, i hope that we will reach agreement on the multiannual budget in november, but to do that we need something without which no agreement is possible: the sense of compromise and the political will to find it. without this, no agreement is possible. for our part, as in the other councils i have chaired, we will do everything to find a compromise. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. most of the issues that were discussed at the summit were also discussed at the previous summit. the new thing is that president van rompuy is proposing a separate budget for the eurozone. i understand there's a great need for more money to save banks. but is not the emergency fund the instrument for that? there is no support for a higher emergency fund, but is a new budget not a way of deceiving the citizen? in van rompuy's proposal, a separate budget for the eurozone amounts to an ever-increasing europeanisation of social policy. the call for a greater europe in a time of crisis threatens to undermine subsidiarity in economic, social and fiscal policy. does the council recognize that there is a tension field here? how does he ensure that subsidiarity is not compromised? i would like to warn against these proposals for economic and budgetary union because i am very concerned about them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first, the amounts must be much lower. let the eu concentrate on its core tasks. a good suggestion by the way from president schulz, in the dutch press last week, although i disagree with his call for centralisation at european level. another way of saving well is to use the structural funds exclusively for poor regions in the member states with the lowest incomes. finally, the eu's own resources. the european parliament wants the financial transaction tax and the vat surcharge to finance the eu. this is in place of the financial contributions from the member states. that's not desirable. member states are less wasteful, as shown by the 2013 eu budget. the member states have the power to levy taxes and should continue to do so. the union is at the service of the member states, even if it does not always seem so in these economically difficult and tense times.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, human rights are essential for this parliament and for the eu. this is the essence of our values and is also reflected in our trade policies, where we find conditionalities for respect for human rights in relation to all countries across the world with which we have trade relations. this also applies to israel in the context of the association agreement. the vote today concerns the protocol that stems from that association agreement and deals with the pharmaceuticals sector, and with technical requirements and mutual recognition of quality standards. as such, it should be seen as a technical dossier. but, of course, meps on both the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on international trade believed it was important to seek legal guarantees, because we do not want to, directly or indirectly, allow the territorial jurisdiction of israeli authorities over the occupied territories. nor do we want to allow products from the settlements to enter the eu market. we sought legal certainty and we believe that we have acquired the requisite assurances now. we also, as members of this parliament, attach a statement where we reiterate how important we think it is that israel respect human rights. this is not only important for us and for the palestinian people but, most of all, for israel’s future. the israeli government is actually on a path to self-isolation which is not working, making bold statements that the eu should solve its own problems before addressing others. in fact, it is important that the eu show its strength and its muscle, and this protocol does not provide a very effective tool for that purpose. if we want to address human rights violations in israel – and i think we should – we should do so on the basis of the conditionalities provided for under the association agreement. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr murphy, as i mentioned, human rights are essential for the european union. i work on human rights on a daily basis and it is a key driver for the work that i do here at parliament. to prepare myself for the vote today and for the text and the work on this protocol, i have spoken to a number of organisations, representing mostly those who care about the human rights of palestinians. we have to ask ourselves whether rejecting this protocol would actually improve the lives of palestinians – and i do not think it will. so i think we must actually use the tools that we have which are stronger – the conditionality agreements that we find in the association agreement with israel – and take this up onto the level that gives us the basis to address matters. the credibility of this parliament is important in order for it to be a broker of real solutions in the middle east peace conflict, and bending the procedures in utterly creative ways actually harms the credibility of this parliament and will not do us any good when seeking solutions that work for the palestinian people. (the president cut off the speaker)
i have waited too long, far too long for the plenary debate and approval of the eu-israel trade agreement on pharmaceutical products. the mutual benefit for both parties is obvious, with the european citizen/patient as the big winner. you'd think that would be a good idea in these times of economic malaise. why, then, this extreme delay in dealing with this important european trade dossier, when the council and commission have already made a positive statement on this? the answer can be shockingly short. the opponents in this parliament, including the chairman of the committee on international trade annex rapporteur, are responsible for this. they seem to have trouble with a basic democratic principle. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i very much hope that the vote in plenary this evening will produce the same result as that in the committee on international trade. yes, because as chairman of the delegation for relations with israel of this parliament i am committed to fair, balanced and good relations between the eu and the jewish state!
today we are discussing a wonderful protocol to the eu-israel cooperation agreement. israel is a technological country with a great industrial structure which makes it the technological pearl of the middle east. it is the pearl of the middle east in more ways than one. it is fully comparable with western countries in terms of certification and standardisation. this is why this protocol is of enormous importance to the eu. the enormous potential of high-quality products from israel is thus more readily available to european citizens. it is not for nothing that all the computers in the world have something israeli in them and that keeping in touch online would never have happened without the israeli computer industry. another reason for the development of trade relations with the jewish state of israel is, of course, its unremitting fight against terrorism in the gaza strip and terrorism in israel itself. qassam rockets are fired daily at israeli civilians and children and women, and in judea and samaria jewish residents are torched with incendiary bombs. i would also like to ask the commission to recognise jerusalem as the sole and undivided capital of the jewish state of israel and to ask the commission to establish the eu embassy where it belongs, in jerusalem, which is and must remain israeli from east to west.
the european union's external action must be based on international law and in line with the standards and values it promotes. this should certainly also apply to bilateral relations with an important partner such as israel. the committee on foreign affairs has put forward three points. firstly, the israeli responsible authority has no jurisdiction in the territories occupied since 1967. secondly, no industrial product produced in israeli settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem may be certified under the provisions of the protocol. thirdly, palestinian products from the occupied palestinian territories must be treated equally by the israeli authorities. we had a debate with commissioner de gucht in july and he said quite literally: "what i have been doing is giving you the assurances that in good faith i can give you. they are not watertight". i would like to have those watertight guarantees, mr president, and i would therefore like to support something that is requested in the protocol. but at a time when there is an amendment to a protocol on which we can only vote yes or no, i have a problem. i would therefore like the council to assume the same responsibility as commissioner de gucht. i do not know how that is to be done if i have to vote for an amendment, whereas in a protocol we do not have amendments, but only a simple yes or no. if you can give me those guarantees, i know exactly how to behave in the mood.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in the discussion around dual-use items i would like to focus on technologies. technologies play an ever more important role in the lives of citizens, empowering the individual, breaking monopolies on information and power, and offering plenty of economic, social, cultural and other opportunities for development. technologies also impact human rights. people in egypt, tunisia, iran, syria, china, burma and many other countries, through the use of smart phones and internet access, are able to claim fundamental human rights such as free expression, press freedom, free assembly and access to information, and they can share documented human rights abuses. but those who fear losing control are striking back, increasingly repressing people with the help of technologies as well. prisons all over the world are populated by dissidents, human rights defenders, journalists and citizens whose laptops, mobile phones, social media and e-mail accounts have been compromised. in their cases, mass surveillance, mass censorship, tracking and tracing are not issues of statistics, mr caspary, but of life and death. too often, the repressive technologies that are used to repress people have a label: ‘made in europe’. it is also important that we do not export technologies that can be used to attack the eu itself. speed is indeed important, and we must stop the digital arms trade with more transparency and accountability, a level playing field in europe and more flexibility for updates, so that the eu can play a leading role in an ever-changing world.
- a writer. - the greens have a very simple question to ask you, mrs malmström. when can we expect the revision of the data retention directive? and the answer from you could actually be very simple: "very quickly, mrs sargentini, because the european parliament has been waiting for it for some time". i am afraid you are not going to give that answer, and you seem to be putting off the revision of the directive a little. the reason for this is quite crude, i think, because the member states cannot prove that the data retention directive is useful, but they are also not willing to give up the possibility of storing our telecommunications and internet data. they want to keep that right. however, no european law violates privacy in such a gross way as this law, which keeps information of europeans without suspicion, without judicial approval and without demonstrable result. and while you are delaying the revision of the retention obligation, you are dragging germany before the european court of justice for refusing to comply with that law. but if no one can prove that it works, it's time to abolish the traffic data retention directive and replace it with an alternative, for example, quick freeze, which a judge will decide and where we capture and store a piece of information, targeted at a particular suspect. targeted investigation, judicial review, and no unnecessary invasion of privacy. so, ms. malmström, again, please take that confrontation with those member states and know that we have seen in acta that there are a lot of people in europe who care about their privacy, who want to use that activism and can help you to change those governments' minds.
second blue-card question. – i am rather surprised to hear my colleague mr voss refer to the example of toulouse as a ‘fahndungserfolg’; i think it was a disaster. here is somebody who was already known to the intelligence services, who was on the americans’ no-fly list, who had been flying to pakistan, who killed people – this was known to the services – and who then killed again. what is your definition of a ‘fahndungserfolg’, and how does data retention relate to this?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this directive has been wrong from the very start. let us go back in history and recall that the only reason that this house got to vote on the proposal for data retention was that the member states could not agree. they had no unanimity, remember? there were many member states which did not want this. that is why we got to vote on it, that was the only reason. until today they have been trying to avoid parliamentary intervention. secondly, does it serve a purpose? is it useful? have we become safer since 2005 and 2006? despite the fact that the evaluation only came through after a long delay, there is not a shred of evidence – not a shred – that it contributes to our safety. all the statements about the necessity of this directive are based on assumptions and nothing else. we have yet to see any figures. does it serve the purpose of harmonisation? some colleagues have pointed out that it does not. it does not. it was not meant to from the start, because the member states chose to compensate, or not, companies for the costs that they incurred. it was then deemed a violation of the constitution in many countries. some colleagues may argue about this, but it is a technical point: only the implementation law was deemed unconstitutional. it seems almost impossible to find a way to implement it in a way that is reconcilable with the constitution. in my own country, a report showed that there is widespread abuse and that data are being consulted much more often by many more people than is allowed. does anybody take action? no. so here is a law that was pushed through, that does not serve a purpose, that seems to be a violation of the constitution and of which there is widespread abuse. so of course the commission and the member states say ‘great law, let’s have more of it’. i say to the commissioner: we should not wait for a review. it should be repealed today.
in these troubling financial and economic times for the european union, the prospect of a promising impetus is certainly very welcome. it is also a reference for the forthcoming eu-japan trade negotiations. the draft resolution makes very clear in paragraphs 2 and 3 the importance and potential for the eu of deepening trade relations with the major global economy of japan. at the same time, the motion for a resolution identifies in a very realistic way the major obstacles to a free trade agreement between the eu and japan. on the japanese side, these are mainly the so-called ntbs, non-tariff barriers and barriers to market access in public procurement. the european parliament's willingness to keep a tight rein on the commission's negotiating process shows commitment and responsibility, because what counts in the end is the positive outcome for our citizens. i wish the commissioner every success in the negotiations ahead.
i would like to thank mrs regina bastos for the excellent cooperation which enabled me to vote in favour of her report. i think it is right that we are celebrating 20 years of the single market, because it has created more jobs and more economic growth. but there are also what i would call a number of fringes on which i have questions to ask commissioner barnier in particular. first of all, the increase in scale, which is an automatic consequence of the internal market. sometimes that's good and efficient, but it also has cultural effects. in the old days, if you went to another city, you would see other stores with products you didn't know. these days, things are starting to look more and more alike. a lot of people complain about that, too. they want fewer european chains and more small, independent businesses making and selling handicrafts or other products that you don't see anywhere else. does the commission agree with me that we should support smes, irrespective of whether companies have plans to expand their business to other european member states? is there not a need to support small, independent businesses and companies which want to maintain their own character and remain small? is it not discriminatory if european funds are only available to companies that do want to cross the border? a second problem is social rights. professor monti said it: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is exactly what we are seeing now. will the commission take action against social dumping? will the commission consider the possibility of a european minimum wage linked to national purchasing power? a third area of tension concerns public services. we have had many bad experiences with the marketing of what used to be the public sector. can the commission confirm that greece and portugal are being forced to privatise the water sector? and if so, does this mean the beginning of forced privatization through the single market? many people are concerned about this and have started a citizens' initiative on the right to water. how does the commission view this?
i agree with the commissioner, but also with the rapporteur, that the single market is a great success. however, i still hear a lot of complaints about the transposition of directives, especially from smes, and i ask you again to focus more on regulations so that the legislation is the same for the whole of europe. i agree with colleagues, including mr schwab, that the celebrations of the 20th anniversary of the single market were very successful, but in my view they were still too much inward-looking and the citizens of europe still know too little about the success of the single market. europe is less popular now than it was 20 years ago. communication, or marketing, as we call it, is our biggest problem. a customer - as an sme would say - needs to know that a product is very, very good before he buys it, and that applies to europe as well. the single market must create the conditions for people to get the best out of themselves, but they must be aware of this. that is why i am calling on you, commissioner, to set up a great marketing programme for 2017 so that all citizens of europe can see the benefits.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − mr president, i think the second semester was an improvement on the first. when i started working as a rapporteur on the semester, around this time last year, there was hardly any debate at all about job creation or recovery. it was all financial figures and economic variables then. this has changed for the better, but although the debate seems to have shifted in the right direction, the actions have not yet shifted. while the leaders of the member states cheerfully announced in january that they would all come up with job plans, none of them did. while lip service is paid to alleviating poverty, the number of poor in europe has risen sharply. and while everybody expresses their grave and graver concern over rising youth unemployment, they stop short of a binding youth guarantee. for the next semester, in 2013, i want to see the commission and the council address rising unemployment and rising poverty much more seriously: for instance, through that binding youth guarantee; through the assessment of economic measures for their effect on the poorest and most vulnerable people; through an approach to wages that addresses them not merely as an economic variable, but as the money out of which people pay for their food and the roof over their heads. i deplore the fact that, although the semester is becoming more and more important, it is not becoming more democratic. at the moment, we as a parliament can do no more than give friendly advice. this makes it particularly vital that there should be a strong majority for this report tomorrow if we want our advice to be heard, because only with a strong majority will there be a moral incentive for the commission and the council to take the recommendations on board. one sentence threatens that majority. it is in paragraph 23 on the fiscal compact. i would appeal strongly to colleagues on the left and the right in this parliament to vote in favour of the identical amendments 1 and 14 to change this sentence, regardless of your opinion on the fiscal compact, because this report is not about that. this report is not the place to settle our differences on the fiscal compact, it is about the european semester. the text of the amendments neither applauds nor criticises the compact and it should be capable of uniting us as a parliament. i especially appeal to my fellow rapporteur, mr gauzès to please not allow this sentence, which is unnecessary for his report, and not to poison the otherwise strong and good message we are sending out.
last july, the member states received a set of recommendations to bring their national finances into order and to keep them in order. hopefully these recommendations will convince european governments to implement the necessary reforms. the financial and economic situation in europe is very serious. the figures on the growing debt burden and the lack of competitiveness in significant parts of europe speak for themselves. it is important to emphasize that this is a package of recommendations and not of commitments. we have already made agreements in europe in the stability and growth pact on debt reduction and medium-term objectives. the member states themselves shall determine how those objectives are to be achieved. and national parliaments ensure democratic control over specific measures. as much as some here would like to take over this role of the national parliaments, the european parliament cannot fulfil that role. it lacks the legitimacy and competence to do so. as far as my country, the netherlands, is concerned, the negotiators for the new government are doing well to follow up the recommendations of the council which came in july. the accelerated raising of the retirement age to 67 and the limitation of the mortgage interest deduction are urgently needed to keep public finances sustainable in the long term. i really hope that mr rutte and mr samson will make these choices.
the commission has sent member states a binding list of socioeconomic measures. the commission considers that these are the priority areas. the commission is now in charge in the member states, thanks in part to the european parliament. but everyone can see in his own country that unemployment is too high, or that public deficits are too large, or that regulations are too onerous. we do not need the commission for that. mr president, it seems impossible to have a single monetary union for economies with unequal speeds. the eurozone is permanently unstable. but the north does not want to continue to pay for the south and the south does not want to be commanded by the commission. what the commission should propose is to dissolve the eurozone, because the south urgently needs to be freed from the grip of the euro. mr president, when will we receive from the commission the plan to abolish the eurozone in its present form? that is the highest priority.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind. there is also a mutual dependence between the european union and russia, especially in the field of trade and energy. but these trade relations - the commissioner has just said this - are certainly not optimal. the reason for this is also that russia has so far applied only its own rules, and this is often a source of great frustration for european industry. i have seen today that in the business ranking published by the world bank, russia is only in 112th place. that's because russia is a very difficult country to do business with. that is precisely why russia's accession to the wto is a very good development, one which we in the ppe group also welcome and which we want to see enshrined in a resolution. but, mr president, we must also check that all the agreements made are being respected. let me make two further comments. if we want to exploit the full potential of economic relations with russia, we must ensure that russia also fulfils all its obligations under the wto. in the run-up to accession, there are still many issues which concern me, such as protectionist measures, unilateral temporary tariff increases, the production and sale of counterfeit goods. these cases have now been named and must be closely monitored. the accession to the wto is an incredibly important step, but there are other specific issues that the eu and russia need to settle bilaterally. these matters will be discussed in the swoboda report, in which we should, as today, once again call the attention of the services concerned to ensure that the negotiations, including those on a partnership agreement, are simply being resumed smoothly.
on behalf of the alde group, i would like to thank commissioner füle for his excellent contribution this morning. it is not surprising that the parliamentary elections of 23 september again failed to meet international standards. because let's face it, as long as lukashenko rules belarus with an iron fist, nothing will change. elections without fair competition are not elections. they are nothing but a farce. the result is a parliament in which there is now literally no opposition member left. there is a tendency to accept the isolation of belarus, but that would be a totally wrong indifference. we must not lose faith in change and must continue to work for the opening up of belarus. i am glad that commissioner füle has shown this morning that he shares this view. sanctions only work in part. the pressure will really have to come from below. the belarusians themselves must long for a different government, a different life. there are democratic movements in belarus. they need to continue to grow and they need our support very badly. i therefore call on commissioner füle to continue to work on strengthening civil society in belarus in the context of the new neighbourhood policy. the eu also has to step up pressure on the belarusian regime to simplify and make visa requirements affordable for belarusians. it's a way for us to exchange more. a commission proposal is on the table, but minsk refuses to sign. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the country did not join the customs union with russia and kazakhstan for nothing. it depends on investments and loans from russia and increasingly also from china. these countries are not asking any questions about the human rights situation in belarus. we must continue to do so and in particular support the belarusians themselves.
for the epp group the official turnout in the latest parliamentary elections in belarus at the end of september was 74%. laughably, the belarusian historian and publicist valeri karbalevich has delivered a devastating judgment. independent observers and voters saw through numerous half-empty polling stations all day on september 23, a resounding victory for the lukashenko regime. the repressive regime in minsk thus reaped what it sowed. if you systematically simulate elections, you shouldn't be surprised if civil society reacts in the same way. the vote on the resolution was taken by a large majority, with the majority of the votes going to the opposition. this should give much thought to the reformist elites in the country. the council and the commission would therefore do well to invest time and energy in patiently establishing relations with these belarusian elites at this time. combine principles with change, in german: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the this is of great benefit to both belarus and the eu, and i have every confidence that commissioner füle will be thinking and working on this.
i would like to express the wish of my colleague, mr nicholson, that malala yousafzai should make a full recovery from her serious injuries. i hear that recovery is progressing, too. her deeply sad, yes, horrifying case leads to two depressing observations about the pakistani education system. poverty forces many parents to send their children to madrassas, where education is free. and it is precisely in these madrassas that the subject of islam, islamic studies, is mandated by the state, with the result of promoting intolerant thoughts, not only towards religious minorities, but also towards women and, respectively, towards education for girls. in short, the real problem in pakistan is the grossly underfunded education system itself. significantly, malala comes from the swat valley, where only one in three girls goes to school. the pakistani authorities must not be left behind by her unimaginable courage. and that must be the urgent message from brussels to islamabad.
mr president, i am not sure if this is related to the agenda, but i do not know where else to raise it. this house has the habit of expressing its solidarity and paying respect to victims of human rights violations. a couple of weeks ago in an eu member state, a woman died unnecessarily of pregnancy-related complications. she was denied – on religious grounds – an abortion that could have saved her. i think that this is a violation of human rights. it is the right to life that was denied to that woman, and i think that it would be appropriate for this parliament to pay its respects to the family of the victim. (applause)
- i'm the reporter. - the commission's proposal on this subject was made long before the events in norway, which have once again put us face to face with the facts. it is necessary to have as uniform rules as possible in a common market in the european union in order to restrict as much as possible the sale of materials which can be used to make explosives and to exclude as many risks as possible. it is therefore good that the commission has proposed a regulation and not a directive. we believe that as many countries as possible should comply with the common rules. there's been an exception. parliament and the commission were almost in complete agreement, but the council was not in complete agreement. there is one country that already has a registration system instead of a licensing system, and wanted to continue with it. parliament has agreed to this and we are satisfied with the compromise. in five years' time, we will evaluate which system is the best, and perhaps we can then have a uniform system throughout the european union. the decision now taken concerns a first list of certain products with a certain concentration which can only be sold under licence. there's a second list of products with a rule that says if there's anything suspicious, it should be reported as soon as possible. it is therefore also important that national contact points are set up in each country where any suspicious transaction can be recorded, so that the governments of those countries and the commission can react as quickly as possible. i think that parliament's proposals on the definition of a suspicious transaction have improved the regulation considerably. finally, we must be constantly vigilant, and it is also good that the regulation includes the possibility of consultation between member states, with member states and with experts in this field. if there is a need to change the list - and this was an important concession by parliament, especially with regard to the first list - if there is a need to add a new product or to withdraw a product, then this must be done through a legislative procedure. the parliament and the commission would have preferred that this should have been done through the so-called delegated acts, but you cannot have everything, and so parliament agreed that the council should have its way on this point. as regards changes in concentrations, the commission can still decide on them by means of delegated acts and then parliament and the council can finally decide on them within a certain period: the commission shall adopt the draft budget in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 4 (2). there's been a lot of talk about ammonium nitrate: we agree that it is covered by the reach regulation so far, but also that the evaluation which will take place in due course will look at whether it is not better to bring this substance under the current regulation. finally, the approval or monitoring of what we have agreed must be done by the member states. we assume that the fines to be imposed in the various member states for infringement of this regulation will be adequate. we hope that this regulation will be a step towards preventing terrorist attacks and other crimes in the european union.
- i'm the reporter. − i would like to thank everyone who took part in this debate, and i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. i have only good memories of that cooperation and i think that everyone had a little bit of a part in the final conclusions. i have noted the commission's statement. i knew and i know it's a difficult point. however, the concession was necessary to reach a compromise, and i believe that the text as it stands should not set a precedent for the future. it is only in english that it says 'to endeavour to consult experts' and endeavour, in my view, leaves room for interpretation as the commission wanted. if we vote on this proposal tomorrow and if it is adopted, then unfortunately no one can guarantee that there is 100% security for all citizens in the european union in this area. i only think that with this proposal we have taken a step in the right direction to prevent more attacks.
- i'm the reporter. - good evening mr. tajani and all the people who are helping you. mr president, we have here a fine technical and long-standing dossier of great importance for the internal market. it is not just the technical requirements for the two-wheelers that are at issue, but also the supervision. the first is the technical requirements: we have had five or so points of discussion over the last two years, and these are the subjects of this regulation. firstly, the categorisation of vehicles will become clearer. i have spoken at length with mr panzeri about the so-called atvs, and we have settled that matter in a proper way. we have been very vocal about the abs and cbs braking systems on the powered two-wheelers, and the braking systems should make the job safer. we agreed that there would be a further study to determine whether the small scooters were effective. we have also looked at the emission requirements of the scooters, because they are quite polluting, especially in urban areas. we looked at the sustainability tests: is a scooter as clean after five years as it was after the first? and we also looked at the lights on those vehicles. but, mr president, market surveillance is also very important to keep cheap, unsafe goods - and they come from china, india and korea - out of the eu. this has nothing to do with protectionism, but everything to do with the quality of protection for our citizens. before i go any further, i would like to thank once again all those involved in this consultation, in particular the danish presidency, which has done a great deal on the dossier, but also, of course, the council and the commission, for what we have all achieved. a few more questions for the commissioner. first of all, the negotiations on the delegated and implementing acts. we have agreed that the industry will have enough time to introduce this new regulation, but if the negotiations on the delegated and implementing acts take too long, then there will be no lead time left. so i would like the commissioner to give me his assurance that the commission will proceed with the implementing and delegated acts. a second point, mr president, concerns the emission requirements, and in particular euro 5 in 2016. the commission will investigate this and the intention is that we will look not only at pollution but also at costs and, again, at lead time. in recent days, there has been some confusion about electric bicycles. electric bicycles are not covered by this directive. they 're just covered by the machinery directive: 250 watts and a top speed of 15 miles. and i'd like to keep it that way, because more powerful electric bikes only lead to major accidents. if the manufacturers of electric bicycles want something different, they can do it in this directive. finally, mr president, the contact with the british motorcyclists. the british motorcyclists have been very critical of us, and rightly so. it is good for democracy if the british motorcyclists are critical of us. modify is allowed, perform is not. and that's something the british motorcyclists should be able to understand.
i would also like to thank mr wim van de camp and mr antonio panzeri for their cooperation. these are two important regulations to improve the internal market. there will be more safety, a better environment, more clarity for producers and consumers, less costs, especially administrative burdens, and above all less regulation. as a liberal, i'm very much in favor of that. it was a very technical file, very technical. and i often felt like a technocratic. it became so difficult and the number of amendments was so enormous that i felt more like a mechanic than a politician. i would have liked to have had a little more of a political dimension in this report, mr president. for example, do we want interchangeable batteries in the future when the vehicles are electric? we want to encourage innovation, or do we already have everything in the form of type approval? do we want more visibility, for example on the side, to ensure safety? how can we prevent counterfeit products or bad products? mr van de camp has already referred to this. for example, do we want to put "made in europe" on our vehicles, or do we leave them in the middle where they are made? how can we avoid unfair competition? i often hear complaints, for example, that tractors with trailers are used, while on the other hand trucks are used which have to meet much more complex type-approval requirements. and last but not least, mr president, the driver often determines how safe the vehicle behaves. i would like to see us establish minimum european rules for drivers and provisions on regular updating or information, because you will get your driving licence someday, but the technical changes in vehicles are changing too and drivers are often not prepared for that. all in all, mr president, it is a good result. i am satisfied with it and will advise my group to vote in favour. but in the future i would like to see us make cases like this a little more political, so that the citizens outside this building are also a little more interested in our work. then we can expect political fireworks. i hope that works. i thank you very much, and i think that there will be a very large majority in favour of these two dossiers tomorrow.
- i'm the reporter. - president, i would first of all like to thank the commissioner for his replies and also my colleagues, almost all of whom are now at home, for the compliments and support i have received in recent times. i listened to the commissioner very carefully. he says that he will monitor the lead time for industry and that the delegated and implementing acts will not take too long so that industry really has enough time to implement the new regulation. he did not explicitly refer back to the study on the abs on small scooters and to the study for euro 5, which is due to come in 2016. but i assume that is also written down and taken into account. i have one more question, but that should be a comment in the light of this debate. will the communication on this new regulation be clear? it's true that we're simplifying things tremendously, that we're making maintenance and repair information very accessible. i think it is important for the eu that we give good information about this. i say to my colleague bufton from england that if he had been involved in the debate earlier, he could have had an influence on the whole. but i'm seeing him for the first time tonight, and that's a shame, of course. oh, and by the way, i did buy a new bmw motorcycle for next year. i think that is good for european industry, and then only one japanese engine less.
i would like to thank mrs thyssen for the thorough work she has done. it has brought together a wide variety of ideas that live in the groups in this parliament. it is important to set the right priorities for the coming period. president van rompuy has made a major advance with his interim report, and now we must look at how we can build on that. but it also means that we have to take important decisions in the short term, as mrs thyssen said, the two-pack. we want to make sure that we have that completed before christmas this year. i would like to emphasize three other priorities on behalf of our group. firstly, banking, with direct banking supervision by the ecb and strengthening, not weakening, the role of the european banking authority. banks must be able to provide sufficient credit to industry. the banking sector is crucial to restoring confidence in our banking sector, but that requires an ambitious european perspective. this means that all banks should be under the supervision of a single european supervisor. it also means that we should not go for a eurozone/non-eurozone dichotomy, but that the model should be inviting to join; so a 27- instead of a 17+. secondly, strengthening economic governance in europe. this is necessary to increase the competitiveness of our social market economy. this calls for a more binding europe 2020 agenda, focused on innovation, growth and jobs. and thirdly, the importance of strengthening democracy in europe, strengthening the role of the european parliament and the national parliaments. there are good proposals in mrs thyssen's report, which i should like to stress.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, who did a magnificent job. i would like to start by addressing the so-called fourth pillar, democratic legitimacy, because i think that this is an issue which is under-exposed. in my view we do not only have an economic crisis, a banking crisis and a debt crisis; we have a democratic crisis, and the issue of democratic legitimacy is not a nice little extra that we can do once the economic crisis is over. no, democratic legitimacy is a precondition for solving the situation we are in. in this respect i have to say that i am extremely worried when i see that the european union has taken major steps ahead over the last three years, but in an increasingly undemocratic, non-transparent way; increasingly intergovernmental and increasingly outside any treaty structures. it is not even intergovernmental anymore. that is not the way to go. if we want to solve the situation, if we want to make that leap ahead into the future, then the democratic crisis is the first thing that we need to solve and i think there are some interesting elements in the report. i think one of the things that we need to look at very closely is individual accountability of european commissioners, accountability before this parliament. a second issue that we need to look at again – which is not a nice luxury extra – is transparency. in a democratic political union, transparency is key to accountability. so far we have worked under the diplomatic method with the tradition of diplomatic discretion, but now we need transparency, we need openness, we need to enable citizens to watch what we are doing. parliament, too, should look very closely at the way it organises its work. we should enable ourselves to exercise meaningful parliamentary scrutiny, and i would like to add here as well that although parliament should reflect the cultural diversity of europe, we should not actually be speaking on behalf of the member states. we are here to defend the general european interest and as i listen to the debates here i occasionally detect hints of nationalism. finally about banking supervision: i would still like to emphasise that although there is a need to move quickly to set up the banking union, we all know, as we are working on the proposals, that they are not sufficient in the long term. i think that we need, now already, to have a long-term perspective, because we know that the ecb cannot cover everything. it cannot cover the non-eurozone countries; it cannot cover the non-banking sector; and i have too my question marks over the concentration of power. so i do think that we need a roadmap towards adequate and democratic banking supervision. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – ms morvai, i think it is a bit outside the scope of this debate, but nevertheless. i am not an ambassador for my country, i am an elected representative. i was elected on a political programme in order to represent a political view of europe. there are compatriots of mine who were elected on a different political programme. there are some political parties in the government of my country that i may disagree with, so how could i speak on behalf of my whole country? i think we all have different political views here; we represent the interests of all european citizens, including the ones living in your country. that is the way i see it.
fifteen years ago, mr president, the member states were living in prosperity, peace and mutual understanding. now we have growing poverty, riots, and empty promises. everyone outside brussels understands that europe has taken the wrong turn. but this parliament wants to continue on the path it has taken. parliament wants a genuine monetary union in which the budgetary rights of the member states and thus their sovereignty disappear. and a banking union which will open the way for the esm to recapitalise failing banks. supervised by brussels, which a year ago called dexia an excellent bank! and finally, a transfer union in which the northern taxpayers will have to pay for the rest of eternity not only for their own social system but also for that of other countries. and everyone will be poorer. president, sovereignty is something to be proud of, not a historical mistake. if this report is adopted, it is because, as is the socialist custom, there are more beneficiaries than payers. but i will vote against it. we must strive for prosperity for all, not for redistribution of poverty.
mr president, the thyssen report does not put an end to the budgetary fetishism which is leading europe straight to the abyss. in southern europe, economies are shrinking more and more, but also in the netherlands, the economy shrank by 1.1% in the last quarter. the fact that the conservative-liberal vvd is pursuing an irresponsible policy of austerity is linked to their ideology. they want an ever smaller government anyway and see social rights as an obstacle to competitiveness. but the fact that the social democratic party is cooperating in this is completely incomprehensible. before the election, their leader samsom had already renounced the 3% norm. now he's helping to implement dramatic cuts, while the imf is encouraging countries like the netherlands to invest and boost consumer confidence. i call on the social democrats to distance themselves from the policy of their dutch colleagues and to vote in favour of our amendments, in which we consider the current special economic conditions to be sufficient grounds for a prudent and therefore flexible application of the 3% rule. this is the only way to get europe's economies back on their feet.
the thyssen report, mr president, seems to point to a genuine economic and monetary union, but it forgets one important economic lesson: a monetary union can only exist between countries which have enough in common. that is the common denominator, mr president, that is missing in the eurozone. for example, labour mobility is low and unit labour costs vary enormously. this week's edition of the economist shows that france's competitiveness is a very big risk. with greece and spain, france could soon become the sick man of europe. the many proposals in the thyssen report are therefore far from being realistic. in the end, the bretton woods system could not survive either. it was only when the link to the gold standard was loosened that new opportunities for the global economy were opened up. the present eurozone cannot continue unchanged either. only after the zone has been tackled will a genuine economic and monetary union be possible. if this approach is not followed, the faucet will remain open.
in writing. the pvv is against the introduction of restrictive regulations, but for the protection of the dutch consumer in the european union. the pvv group has therefore voted in favour of the directive on consumer credit agreements.
in writing. − i am of the opinion that children should be protected and crime should be tackled through law enforcement. however, the report’s focus on government campaigns and the extension of enforcement to isps and other self-regulating mechanisms is setting the wrong priorities and risks privatising responsibilities that lie in the hands of states, while diminishing the role of parents in their children’s education. measures included in the report furthermore demonstrate an unwarranted bias towards the perceived dangers of the internet, limiting the opportunities for education and innovation. rather, i prefer to strengthen young people’s resilience and independence. efforts should be directed at educating children and young people, with the help of their parents and teachers, to take ownership of their actions on the web and to develop e-skills. i recognise that advancements in ict can raise social capital, facilitating fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and access to information. i consider the participation of children and youth in today’s digital society an essential aspect of their development. while fully recognising the need for effective law enforcement, particularly the need to end serious crimes such as child pornography, i regret the restrictive nature of the proposed measures prevents me from giving my support.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their proposals, mr president, because they lead to a great, lively political debate. we are talking about the future of our energy supply and it is very necessary that we create an internal energy market, with a ring of electricity and gas, so that we are less dependent on foreign states. we are also talking about alternative forms of energy and i think we need a strict legal framework to guarantee safe use of new forms of energy, without harming man or nature. i also believe that no alternative should be rejected in advance, and that includes shale gas. i believe that the techniques currently used which are clearly harmful to man or the environment should be improved, but we should certainly not exclude anything. i therefore believe that we must continue the investigation in a responsible manner.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we have heard a lot about rules. i want to say a bit about the gist of the debate on this resolution and the context in which it is taking place. the internet and technologies have changed people’s lives around the world, empowering them to access information, to express themselves freely, to assemble and to document human rights violations, for example; and for businesses and entrepreneurs, too, the opportunities are very exciting. with the help of technology, it is easier to challenge monopolies, including powers that have traditionally lain in the hands of government and media. at the same time we have to be careful that no new monopolies emerge. revolutionary change never comes without protest from those with a vested interest: businesses that want to secure their profitable models; governments that want to control people. multinational organisations are the new arena for battles of this kind. the international telecommunications union may have been a technical and somewhat obscure organisation dealing with standards, but these standards are increasingly being used in political fights and in the re-territorialisation of the internet in the grip of nation states, and the standards are also being tweaked to protect business models. under the guise of fighting spam, speech has been stifled; and, in the name of cyber security, online surveillance has dramatically increased. banning ‘voice over internet protocol’ services hampers free speech by criminalising it, as in africa, or throttling it, as was the case in the netherlands – which is why my party pushed for enshrining net neutrality in law. our resolution addresses some of the most urgent concerns relating to internet governance. some argue that this is actually a contradiction in terms, but what is certainly true is that the internet has developed into the fruitful platform it is today without much regulation. today we are talking specifically about the international telecommunications union (itu), which will host the world conference on international telecommunications in dubai, and it makes sense to update the system of regulation because this has not been done for a very long time. however, we should bear in mind that the itu’s recommendations are non-binding documents that promote best practices. each of the 27 eu member states has a vote, and if the eu wants to be a global player – if we want our voice to be heard – we must speak out loudly as one, and we should further the development of the internet as a truly public sphere in which fundamental freedoms are guaranteed.
"blue card" question to gabriele zimmer. i'm not sure what you mean. president. - we are here in the house of democracy and my question to my colleague is whether i may be here merely to sing the praises of europe in worship or whether i may be here to represent the voters of my own country in a democratic way.
mr president, once again the real political work is not done in strasbourg. tomorrow and the day after tomorrow the european ministers of the member states will meet to discuss the budget for the coming years. it is in their hands that this decision should be made, not here in the european parliament or in the hands of the commission. the member states are footing the bill, so they are also deciding. it's important to repeat that, because most of us here forget it once in a while. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council, mr cyprus, who has made a good start with the first commitment to austerity. the netherlands, however, wants to make a stronger commitment and is threatening to veto if the proposed multiannual budget is not cut back more. similar comments are made by england, finland, sweden, germany, denmark and austria. fortunately, there is such a veto, because if the citizens had to rely on the commission and this parliament, the party of spending other people's money without shame would go on day and night. the proposals of cyprus and van rompuy are a start, but there are still tens of billions of dollars to be taken from the budget. it's time to end the northwest paying and the southeast burning. this totally misplaced solidarity must end as soon as possible. it is clear that some countries have yet to learn that a budget is not about solidarity but about solidity. and, mr swoboda, no more money goes to gaza and hamas, which wants to destroy israel. let the government of gaza take care of its own people instead of having the european citizens pay for the rockets that threaten this state in its independence.
mr president, the fact that the negotiations are becoming very difficult is nothing new. all the negotiations in the past have been extremely difficult, but a compromise has still been reached. parliament has always been very reasonable. the problem, i think, is always with the council. we have made clear agreements with the council in the previous period and in the present period on better implementation of the budget. we have made agreements on accountability of expenditure. it is a pity that the court of auditors still gives a negative opinion. most of these agreements have not been implemented. in the previous period we also made clear agreements on budgetary flexibility, something which parliament now considers necessary. most of the agreements on flexibility have not been respected by the council. one of the things that is necessary is that we will have it more strongly in the new budget. it is a strange thing that every year money is sent back to the member states, and then the member states complain that the invoices that come in are far too high.
president, these are going to be exciting days in brussels. there is talk of hundreds of billions for the coming years. i would prefer that there be no penny going to the european union at all, but i hope - and you must also be pragmatic - that mr cameron gets his way and that we stick to the still terrible 800 billion. but it's not just about money. it is also a question of which way we all want to go with the european union. in this house, few people actually have an honest view of the future of the european union. on the one hand, it's the federalists; the european parliament has a duty to make a statement on the future of the european union. that's where we're headed if we don't do something. on the other hand, mr president, there is a group, including myself, which is very eurocritical. they say: we do not want a federation, and we must dismantle this eu. that is a view which is also correct and fair to the citizen. but the majority of this parliament is simply lying to the citizens. there is no middle ground. it's up or down for the eu. it is either a federal state or the dissolution of the european union. president, i am voting with all my heart and soul for the latter option in the interests of the dutch people and out of respect for our centuries-old sovereignty. the european parliament is dead. the commission is not the only one to have been involved in this, and it is not the only one.
i would like to say, mr president, that i would like to address myself to the cypriot presidency, which is due to hold a full session with all the member states the day after tomorrow. what is going to happen tomorrow will undoubtedly be another cow-trading to satisfy all the member states. less money on a lot of fronts and then on the content, keeping a few other countries on board. who will be the victims of this cow trade? the content, the future. what is the eu budget for? we have the eu budget for the future, for the real challenges of the eu, and one of the main challenges is the scarcity of raw materials, energy, food, materials. all of these things are the challenges of the future and they require our budget. for innovation, for energy infrastructure, for agriculture, for a structural fund, where investments are made in energy saving, in renewable energy. those are the fronts that are being cut. that's where we're cutting. all this to satisfy countries which are only concerned with the size of the budget, and thus make the content the victim, and thus the future of europe the victim.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr schulz is no longer here, but i think he has spelled out the point very well in his introduction. the problem with the council is that very often when they make concessions to us in negotiations, and then when the ink of that concession has dried up, they forget it and say that parliament's demands are actually unheard of, 'because the current circumstances have changed so much since we signed, so everyone must understand that it can no longer be done'. as far as i'm concerned, it's perfectly clear: when you sign a contract, when you make a commitment, you shouldn't be surprised that the bills come in and those bills have to be paid. that is true everywhere, and it is true in the european parliament too. it is also pointless to say that the budget cannot rise more than inflation, etc. it's just that once you make a commitment, you have to pay it at some point. and the point is: are the commission's estimates correct or not? there's always a lot of misunderstanding about those estimates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is needed first of all is a specific body at member state level which will check exactly whether the estimates which the member states submit to the commission are correct or not. - i have two minutes, by the way, mr. president. - we must therefore check whether these estimates are correct and if so, then every year the confusion about the budget for payments should not be so difficult. if you want to reduce payments, there's only one solution, and that's to reduce liabilities.
president, thank you to commissioner hedegaard and the cypriot president for the fine words again on climate change and the seriousness of the matter. in this chamber, in the european parliament, there is again a great deal of concern about the seriousness of climate change. but if we look at the reality, we must realize that the eu is already having problems in coming to a position, even though we know that this summit in doha will not produce the greatest progress. it is time to be more critical of the cypriot presidency, but also of commissioner hedegaard. for example, when will europe finally agree on rules to ensure that the hot air from kyoto i is not carried over to kyoto ii? when will the eu finally clarify this? and funding! mrs. hedegaard is very clear: "i am building on the alliance of the poorer countries, the african union". the african union is very much interested in money. they're already feeling the effects of climate change. if i read the conclusions of ecofin, the finance ministers, there is nothing concrete about what the eu will do with money after 2012. what will the eu promise in doha? i would like to hear more concrete, clear statements from the eu about what they are going to put in doha. otherwise, it will be empty words and it will not help the climate.
i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. the title of this debate is 'the situation in gaza'. the title 'the situation in israel and gaza' is more realistic and balanced. for the rocket fire of hamas and related jihadist terrorist groups on israeli territory has led to this latest violent version of the gaza conflict. the absolutely legitimate defence of the lives and property of israeli citizens was and is at stake. the disproportionate ability of the israeli side to collect for this escalation is also admired: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in these dark days, i truly pray for peace in jerusalem, and there are jews and palestinians understood. i therefore expect all the european institutions to adopt a responsible attitude to the ongoing conflict in gaza. in principle, such an attitude is fundamentally opposed to all the forces in the middle east which deny and threaten the right of the state of israel to exist, even today. the european union is particularly anxious today to send such an urgent message to the protectors of hamas, egypt in particular, qatar and turkey.
"blue card" question. what is it? yes, my dear colleague mr le hyaric, like his irish colleague, is also suggesting the same thing, namely that he is linking this regrettable escalation to the upcoming israeli elections. i have a simple question: i would like to ask the commissioner what facts are behind this assumption, which i regard as a regrettable innuendo which does not hold up. because anyone who has watched the situation in the middle east in recent months has seen how the matter has escalated, with hamas sometimes turning a blind eye or joining forces with various al qaeda groups in syria and gaza. i'd like to hear your evidence, otherwise it's pure innuendo.
the european parliament rightly urges (see recommendation (u) in the jaakonsaari report) that kazakhstan review its recent religious law and put an end to indiscriminate raids, interrogations, threats and fines against religious minorities. this is because this government action is totally inconsistent with the international commitments that kazakhstan has made, and with its own constitution. new reports of continued attacks on churches in kazakhstan, both registered and unregistered, underline the house's concern on this point. meanwhile, the council of baptist churches reports that some government officials have threatened to confiscate homes where unregistered baptists hold services this summer. i have just heard from the council that the high representative will be in astana next week. i would therefore ask the council representative to convey to mrs ashton that i would like to see these serious cases i have mentioned discussed in astana. that is necessary if we are to have a real say in human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, for those of you who have been following the presidential election campaign in the usa, you know what i am referring to when i say i feel a little bit like clint eastwood, talking to an empty chair, because once again, the council is absent. as my colleagues have already outlined, this house will stick to the package approach, keeping the regulation and the directive together. but i would like to add one element and that is that the directive for us is a precondition for further police and justice cooperation and that is something that the council should understand because the council too has wishes. it wants to proceed as we do in the area of police and justice cooperation. but how can police and justice exchange data if there is no adequate data protection? so i would strongly advise the absent council to proceed quickly with the directive and i would like to go a little bit further than my colleagues; instead of a roadmap let us aim for results and quick results. if the council wants us to adopt further measures in the area of police and justice cooperation, i can think of a few interesting dossiers: eu pnr, investigation order and what have you. they had better speed up their work on the directive. i would also like to remind the council that the predecessor of the directive, the framework decision which is currently in force, was actually voted down by this house. unfortunately, that was pre-lisbon. but we do not consider that the current framework decision is adequate, so whatever the council comes up with, it will have to be a good deal better than what is currently in force. secondly, we will work very hard to align the directive with the regulation because we are disappointed that there are two instruments rather than one and we will work very hard to try and ensure a single harmonised level of data protection for all use of personal data. finally colleagues, coming back to my reference to clint eastwood, i would like to say the following to the council, as clint eastwood said in his role as dirty harry when a criminal was trying to defy him: ‘you have to ask yourself one question: do i feel lucky?’ council, will you defy parliament? that is the question.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fisheries is a vital sector in europe. the five reports and the debate tonight show that this is also the case, with major economic and ecological interests. as rapporteur for five future structural funds for the general regulation, including the maritime and fisheries fund, i would like to point out once again the opportunities we have to invest in an integrated approach for coastal regions. and it is also the ferrera report that points to small-scale fishing, artisanal fishing. conservation is important for the attractiveness of coastal zones and for the balance of these zones, including ecological balance. in my country, the netherlands, the shellfish sector is also small but vital. so it is important to look beyond the big picture. new initiatives, such as aquaculture, can also complement this. the regional development fund can also be used in coastal regions. secondly: technology helps us. i would like to point out, for example, a development in the netherlands - a young fisherman from volendam won an innovation prize for it - to immediately flush the by-catch back into the sea alive. that can be done on a number of ships and in a number of sectors. such a development really helps us to move forward, and i would ask the commissioner if she would strongly support such innovations. that is possible from the funds, and i think that is a good contribution to the image of the sector.
i would like to begin by apologizing to the president of the court of auditors and to the commissioner for not being able to be present at the beginning of the debate. i had another important meeting. it 's probably been said by many others and in many tones: it is the eighteenth time that the court of auditors has failed to give a positive opinion. it will be very difficult to defend in the eyes of the public if parliament gives the commission a discharge for the 17th time. i think that is why the commission must come forward with strong proposals to improve controls. we've tried many things over the years: higher fines, stop the payments. i think everything that's possible has been tried. the only thing that has never been tried, despite parliament's insistence for years, is that if we give money to the member states, then there must be more political accountability in the member states where the most mistakes are made. over the years parliament has called in all possible ways for a member state declaration. this is expressed in annual summaries, as the interinstitutional agreement calls them. i wonder if they are effective, i don't think so. the new financial regulation provides for the possibility for member states to make such a declaration on a voluntary basis. i think the commission should pursue a very active policy to promote this. the member states which do so should have a clear advantage. if everything is in order according to the european and national audit bodies, if their explanations are correct, then the commission must somehow reward those countries with less controls, less bureaucracy, etc. the member states should have the advantage of making a political declaration on the implementation of europe's money.
mr president, the court of auditors' 2011 report is another great read for our citizens. like this one: a farmer receives a subsidy for 150 sheep, the court found that the recipient had no sheep at all, and the payment was therefore unlawful. a clear report. in that respect, i would like to compliment the court of auditors on its work. unfortunately, this is just the tip of the iceberg and for the eighteenth time in a row, the eastern and southern member states in particular have shown themselves to be not so strict in their application for subsidies and in their control of taxpayers' money from northern europe. thrift is not for everyone, it turns out. i'd like "naming and shaming". two notable remarks by the court of auditors: first , the eu added value is difficult to measure and second , there is no mention of economy and efficiency in the reports . the pvv has been stressing this for years, and it is pleasing to note that our position is now also being confirmed by the court of auditors.
in writing. the pvv is of course in favour of combating and solving child abductions. it is therefore a good thing that more and more countries are joining the convention in question. the resolution by parliament is not about child abductions as such but about the transfer of the right to conclude international agreements from the member states to the european commission. this is an erosion of national sovereignty, with repercussions for other international agreements. kidnapped children should be returned to their homes as soon as possible. it is not in a treaty text, but in a member state.
i am speaking on behalf of my colleague mr zalewski, who is actually the shadow rapporteur on this dossier and who has just arrived but who gives me priority. as mrs moreira has already said very clearly, since the treaty of lisbon foreign direct investment has been covered by the eu's common commercial policy. that's good. this means that only the eu is empowered to legislate and to take legally binding acts. this means that in the long term the eu will conclude bilateral investment protection agreements with third countries. that's great! but there are still some problems with this. many member states have closed a large number of such ibos. they are now binding, as provided for in this regulation. but the question is whether in the future what the eu is going to do will be of the same high quality as the agreements that the member states have concluded with those different countries. that's why this call: make sure you don't get the smallest piece of the pie when you sign new contracts, but make sure you get a high standard. that's request one. request two. what i lack is sufficient arbitration, whereby not only can disputes be brought before the international centre of investment disputes by member states, but also companies themselves, so instead of the countries, are given an arbitration option. i think that's very important. and then, perhaps, one last thing: the commission is now negotiating with canada. the question is whether the agreement which the commission is now going to conclude with canada is of such a high level that the member states will not have to give up too much for it, which might be the case if you have to negotiate with, for example, much more difficult countries such as china. i would like to see the commissioner answer these questions and comments. thank you very much.
europe is facing a huge economic crisis. member states are being injected with money, citizens are being squeezed out. how is it then that the european union is writing cheques to countries thousands of kilometres away? the eu can't even keep its own pants on, so why is it giving away billions? since the start of the macrofinancial assistance scheme, over 7 billion has been disbursed. much of it is given away as gifts, often to countries with a reputation for bribery, corruption and organized crime. this time kyrgyzstan is the lucky recipient of european money. macro-financial assistance is supposedly intended for countries neighbouring the european union. kyrgyzstan is in central asia, more than six thousand kilometers from here. that's not a neighboring country of europe, it's a country next to china. is that already within brussels' sphere of influence? where does this end? human rights violations are taking place in kyrgyzstan, and many activists are behind bars. it is also one of the most corrupt countries in the world. and the european union is now entrusting this country with 30 million euros, 15 million of which as a gift to be spent freely. please, have fun with it, says the european union! the contrast with the situation in europe cannot be greater. europe is on the verge of social and economic collapse, but the eu continues to spend money as if nothing is wrong. the taxpayer can take the fall for this. the hard-earned money of the citizens is being taken away, because the eu wants to give financial gifts to verwegistan. mr president, this policy is a flagrant insult. the european union must stop this.
rapporteur. − madam president, this report is mainly directed at high representative ashton and her external action service. technological developments have a revolutionary impact on the lives of people all over the world. several eu member states, and the united nations, have now identified access to the internet as an enabler of fundamental rights, and the commission agrees that digital freedoms are part of the copenhagen criteria. initial policy steps through the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the no disconnect strategy are welcome, but we need to be much more ambitious. tomorrow, we vote for the first strategy to mainstream technologies into the eu’s external actions. i am not suggesting over-regulation – that would hurt the open internet – but in some policy areas rules are needed and need to be updated to match the revolutionary impact of technological developments with adequate democratic oversight. the commission is working on a cyber security plan which this parliament is eagerly awaiting, but let us ensure that there is no zero-sum game between cyber security and digital freedoms. we must put people first. the struggle for human rights has a growing technology component: prisons are increasingly populated by dissidents confronted with their own internet and mobile communications having been compromised by the authorities. people facing repression deserve eu support, and in any case should not be targeted with tools and technologies developed and exported from within the eu. promoting and defending human rights also means enabling people to circumvent mass censorship and to evade cyber attacks. while the recent eu export bans on repressive technologies to syria and iran are important ad hoc sanctions, generally, more transparency and accountability are needed. technologies, tools or services custom-made for targeted human rights violations should be categorised separately, as single-use technologies, and should be restricted. an eu law for intercept standards without the context of the rule of law loses all meaning. in trade agreements, but also in development assistance, we need to include digital freedoms in conditionalities and to enforce them. there are a lot of opportunities in eu development policies: we can bridge the digital divide, build and install basic ict infrastructures, provide people with access to knowledge and information, and enable online education in remote areas. in the first critical hours after natural disasters or during humanitarian crises, ad hoc emergency mobile and internet connections should be set up. icts are also essential for effective citizen election monitoring. in turning these opportunities into actions we must be vigilant and recall that the eu cannot credibly promote or protect digital freedoms in the world if they are not safeguarded at home. european companies should be reminded of their corporate social responsibilities. we need human rights impact assessments in the r&d phase and must implement the concept of human rights by design. the external action service should take the lead in globally promoting and protecting digital freedoms by synergising trade, security and foreign policies, and by aligning our eu values and interests. we need to do justice to the new reality that technological developments create and update our laws and regulations to mainstream digital freedom. presidents, governments cannot do this alone and the private sector has increasing responsibilities. the internet is now governed by a so-called multi-stakeholder approach which developed organically into a network of public and private stakeholders. this model can only function when it is inclusive, including small businesses, internet users and consumers, who need a seat at the table. we must consider the internet public and public interests. i would like to thank the shadows who contributed to this and all the stakeholders who gave their input to the discussion paper. this report was crowd-sourced, which is another reminder of how technology can assist democracy, and create more openness and participation within the eu too.
mr president, the unitary patent was a great idea. the automatic granting of patent protection in several countries by standardising and mutually recognising patent issuance. the idea still exists, but the implementation has become so complicated that the actual protection of intellectual property has become uncertain. we have a legal uncertainty situation with four different patents during a transitional period and the length of that transitional period is also unclear. this proposal will only create uncertainty, not protection. it's not cheaper. for inventors, for start-ups, for smes, operating only nationally, the costs are increasing and the new establishments in paris and london will not be free either. the negotiations could have been more fruitful if italy and spain had cooperated and if the billions in aid now being given had not been unreasonable. but above all, is this end result an example of the difficult ratios: a union that is not a union. countries feel unrepresented, citizens feel unrepresented and business no longer feels represented. perhaps, mr president, this union is really only for civil servants and politicians.
first of all, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their long and hard work. so here we are. tired of fighting after 40 years. is that commendable? is that enough? is it european enough for you? actually, it's not good at all: in 40 years, more could have been done and we could have achieved much more with a real patent. after 40 years of working on the patent, this is what was created: instead of a crown jewel, a disgrace. because it represents everything that everyone in europe hates: the struggle of languages, the egoism of nations, each for itself. a complex legal system that hardly anyone fully understands. this could have been a fantastic goal for european innovation; i'm still hoping that's what it's gonna be. but then there is more to it than just a good patent, and i hope that there will be a really good eu patent, which is really working on innovation. at the moment, the innovation budget is in danger of being pulverized in the battle over budgets and over historical interests. i really call on everyone to work on real innovation and on sufficient funding for it so that it can become a crown jewel and we can be competitive in europe and in the world.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their good work, but i would like to congratulate commissioner barnier on his having done the best he could. after 40 years of debate, you have achieved what you have now, and i commend you on that. i thank you on behalf of my region as well. i 'm from brabant . there's brainport, and there's an average of four patent applications a day. they'll be thrilled to hear this. i was an inventor myself before i got into politics. i have two patents in my name, but unfortunately i only have benelux patents because i could not afford to apply for patents for all of europe. i'm also an intellectual property lawyer, and i know how difficult it is to legally protect your patents. so, congratulations to the commission, congratulations to parliament, for the patent legislation we are adopting today. i do regret very much that two countries are not participating, so that it does not become a community patent, two countries which have, after all, been operating under the same system for almost 40 years. i find it absolutely incomprehensible, particularly since these are countries which are not doing well economically at the moment. i thank you, mr president, and i hope that we shall adopt this by a large majority this afternoon.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. president, i would like to begin by thanking president lamassoure and the three rapporteurs for the excellent way in which they have expressed parliament's opinion in the negotiations on this supplementary budget for 2012 and the budget for 2013; it was a very difficult delivery this time. i think parliament was absolutely right in its attitude. if member states and parliament make certain commitments, the resulting bills will have to be paid. there is a lot of uncertainty about that. the estimates of the member states which, we are told, are submitted to the commission are always higher than what the member states themselves consider justified in increasing the budget for payments. so i agree with that statement: we need better certification of what can really be expected in terms of payments during the year. that would avoid the misunderstandings we have had about the 2012 budget, and i expect the 2013 budget to be at least as well implemented, because i think there are still many surprises in store. the compromise reached is acceptable to the alde group. it is not ideal, of course, but that is the case with most compromises, we can never please everyone. all we can say is: in the event of no agreement, the situation would have been significantly worse and there would have been a high risk of a chaotic situation in the implementation of the 2013 budget. so this is the best compromise possible. as i said before: the explanations are of vital value to the alde group. we want every party to abide by it. finally, the following conclusion can be drawn: europe clearly needs a different system of own resources.
mr president, today we are debating the 2013 budget for the third time. it will undoubtedly be adopted, given the terrible eu elite who want to shove this budget down our throats. but not with the support of my government, which fortunately voted against it. the euro-clique still does not understand that the citizens of europe have long been cut off. they have understood the wise words of former u.s. president woodrow wilson: "liberty has never come from government. liberty has always come from the subjects of it. the history of liberty is a history of limitations of governmental power, not the increase of it". for the time being, european commissioner bolkestein wrote today in the volkskrant the following endearing words: the member states are in a bind and do not know how to get out. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the fact is that the one who stands alone is not necessarily wrong. in fact, often it is the dissenting voices that speak the truth. the key to success for european countries lies not in more government and more spending, but in less government. mr. president, let me be very clear. the pvv is not against europe, but against the eu. the pvv will never give up dutch sovereignty, because it is far too precious to us.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, i must be honest with you: i do not really understand what mr klinz is saying. he says he is a liberal, but then he closes the door to give more opportunities to developments in this market. he says he doesn't want to because it's not going to get us where we want to go. and that goal is to achieve liberalisation in a good way. i think that with the empl committee's proposal and the rapporteur's proposal we are doing exactly what mr klinz is asking for: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. i cannot understand why you are opposed to the whole thing. can you explain that to me again?
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, what is happening now is the world in reverse. there is a problem in frankfurt and that is why the liberal klinz is blocking further developments in europe in order to open up this whole closed market. that's what we're dealing with here. you are creating a specific problem and you are burdening europe with it. you should do it differently. you should have tabled an amendment introducing the minimum wage in germany, and we would have got rid of all these discussions and could simply have arranged the modest steps of the rapporteur today with the support of the liberals. and where are the liberals now? under the table.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr president, it is remarkable, but mrs lichtenberger is making it all too clear. i quote her contribution: "a suboptimal proposal is not much good". what the hell is this? the most suboptimal proposal we are working with here in europe is the euro. and we've been working for years to fix the euro. so i would say: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. i think it's a little bit lame that you're going to duck out and say, "let's just throw it in the trash". of course you can't.
mr president, on a point of order in response to the honourable member over there, i was a shadow rapporteur on the subject of groundhandling and did everything i could in the committee on transport and tourism to avoid the discussion we are having here today. so please do not object if i use a blue card. we are a democracy here and i want to use my democratic right to put some questions in plenary, as i did in the transport committee. you cannot block me on that.
mr president, the transport sector is the one that benefits most from a european single market. open borders, fair competition, free movement of goods and people. it's vital to the transport. unfortunately, we are now and then confronted with a number of outdated sub-markets where protectionism and monopolies are still very much in vogue. this is particularly the case in the land-handling sector. in particular, frankfurt airport could very well use new policies and legislation in this area. commissioner kallas has made a very bold new proposal to open up this market further. unfortunately, the socialists and many german meps in the transport committee have succumbed to the pressure of their trade unions and the proposal has been rejected. a missed opportunity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air transport sector is not left behind. however, companies in the land-handling market which are already well established will also benefit from this further opening of the market; the commission proposal also leaves room for further market opening. so i hope, mr president, that tomorrow in the plenary we can reverse the rejection of the proposal, because the proposal really deserves a chance to be discussed again. the commission has the opportunity to do so, but the rapporteur has certainly done everything he could to make it happen. that is why i hope we can discuss it tomorrow and the day after.
member of the commission. − mr president, there have been many interesting remarks and contributions, and i thank you all very much for this lively debate. it is difficult to comment on all the detailed points raised. my colleagues and i have had the opportunity to meet the committee on transport and members of the european parliament. my colleagues have participated in all these discussions. they can continue to discuss these issues if you decide to continue this discussion. i would like to point out that this is a very modest proposal. this entire package is very modest. it is being attacked from both sides. one side considers that it does not go nearly far enough to improve the competitiveness of european airports and to solve the problem. they argue that you can already see on eurocontrol maps how the centre of europe will be squeezed in the very near future, and there is a real need to do something about this. on the other hand, on the subject of social protection and related issues, i should say that i started these negotiations with a meeting with representatives of trade unions. we managed to form an impression of what a balanced proposal might look like. the provisions which they asked for have been included in this new proposal, which contains more provisions in this area than existing legislation. so i am deeply convinced that this is a balanced and moderate proposal. people ask what real liberalisation is. i can tell you: real liberalisation would go much further. it could mean auctioning off frankfurt airport’s new runway slots, for instance, as called for initially. you can not imagine how many bright ideas people in various camps have. so i am genuinely convinced that this is a modest proposal. i am not insisting on getting this package through at any cost. i am not heavily lobbying for it. it is your decision tomorrow what to do with this package. it is a political decision. you must consider the package as a whole; you cannot take some elements out and leave some elements in. if you take a political decision that this package should not go through then so be it. of course i would like to comment more concretely and in a more detailed manner on several aspects of the package in the course of the present debate, but i am also subject to time limits and i am passionate about keeping to them. however i should just like to refer to the fact that somebody said today i am an advocate of night flights. i cannot understand where that idea came from. yes, of course, mr kohlíček made the very interesting proposal that we could organise these slots, and all air traffic management, in a completely different manner using new technology, including sesar. yes, that would be possible, but member states have opted for another way of gradually improving the functioning of air transport infrastructure and we must follow their decision. so let us see what your decision will be tomorrow. of course, it is clear that if this package does not get political support we will take it back.
mr president, i have a point of order on a personal matter. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i have taken a political position on this dossier because it would make things a little bit better in terms of liberalization. and all the rumors you are making about the fact that employment is getting worse and so on are completely untrue. come and see schiphol, where this system works perfectly. i am therefore completely distancing myself from this and that, which is why this is a personal matter.
the commission is proposing to introduce a tax on the purchase of shares, the financial transaction tax. the commission wants to collect this tax itself, so that there is no longer any constraint on expenditure in brussels. the commission has, however, been defeated. several member states are now going to introduce the tax, but they are keeping the money. the transaction tax was announced as a bank tax, but it is not the banks, but the consumer who pays the bill. and the socialist view that having money and making money is wrong is also alive in brussels. fortunately, the netherlands is not yet involved, because if it were introduced in the netherlands, the damage would be 4 billion euros a year. mr president, taxes should not go up at all, they should go down. low taxes lead to growth, to prosperity, to freedom, and the financial transaction tax is a wrong choice. governments and the commission must learn to balance expenditure with revenue. every citizen should be.
for the ppe group. mr president, as has been said, the ppe group believes that legislation on the transport of animals in an ideal world is based on scientific facts, and then the right conditions of transport are often more important or just as important for the welfare of an animal as the duration of transport. but, mr president, we also know that the world is far from ideal. and if you make legislation based on transport conditions, as the council did in 2004, you have to have a final control and sanction regime in place to get the rotten apples out and not punish those who have invested in the right implementation and expensive cars. let that control be once again the achilles heel of this regulation. and as we have heard so many times before, the commission washes its hands of the matter, points out that the member states are responsible for monitoring this legislation, and then the commission backs down again. why, commissioner, do you find that there are great differences in controls between the member states, but have you not increased your own fvo inspections in this area significantly in recent years? why is it that you know in detail how much the penalties differ between member states when it comes to the transport of goods, but you have deliberately decided not to investigate this in animals, in living creatures? as long as the implementation of this legislation does not improve, the pressure will increase - and i think it is right - to change course and to look again at a maximum transport time. tomorrow we shall vote on the proposal by the rapporteur on behalf of the committee on agriculture to introduce a maximum transport time of eight hours. and it could get exciting tomorrow. the last time the european parliament tabled this proposal, we were not yet co-legislators, but we are now. does this perhaps explain why the commission does not dare to take any legislative initiative in this area? you cannot make a deal with the council any longer. it will be clear, mr president, how i will vote tomorrow as the initiator of the resolution on a maximum transport time of eight hours for slaughter animals. i therefore wholeheartedly recommend this report and the rapporteur's proposals to parliament.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for all the work he has done in formulating the european parliament's position on the promotion of animal safety during transport. i am therefore in full agreement with the resolution as it stands. however, if it is said that this resolution is very clear about our support for an eight-hour limit on transport, then i really have a very different text in mind. firstly, this resolution states that some things have not been scientifically proved, and secondly we call on the commissioner to consider doing something about the eight-hour transport time. that's too weak. i therefore put forward an alternative resolution, in which i take over the rapporteur's text in its entirety, except for the two paragraphs which, in a very difficult and vague way, ask for the eight hours of transport to be taken into account. i simply replaced those two paragraphs with a direct request to the commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals, including the introduction of a limit of eight hours for transport, the written declaration signed by a majority of this parliament and the initiative supported by a million citizens. it is a tightening of the rapporteur's text; the rapporteur's report is fine for the rest, but at eight o'clock we as a parliament must insist more strongly and we are doing so with the alternative resolution.
president. - thank you to mr wojciechowski for his excellent work and welcome the new commissioner. i am in favour of transporting animals for slaughter for up to eight hours. i think that the transport of animals for slaughter should really be made more friendly to the animals themselves. at the same time, the commission should look at how the transport of carcases instead of live animals can be promoted. i would rather pay a fair price for my meat than eat cheap meat from animals that have suffered unnecessarily during transport. i think the key to this debate is also enforcement and control. we see in the report that some member states are not sufficiently critical in the control and inspection of meat; there is a lack of enforcement, poor compliance; i think that's very important to address, because we cannot tolerate a deterioration in animal welfare and distortion of competition. it is precisely at this point that i call on the commissioner to make a real effort.
in writing. unnecessary towing of animals should be stopped. this can only be started by an eight-hour limit on all animal transport for slaughter. in 2005, legislation was introduced to improve transport conditions for animals. that has had only a small effect so far. many countries and carriers do not comply with the regulations in force. sufficient room for movement and drinking water, normal temperatures: it's in the law, animals have a right to it. the commission must therefore also ensure that member states and carriers comply with that law. in addition, we can reduce animal suffering by setting an eight-hour limit. an eight-hour limit is easy to control and encourages slaughter in one's own region. so less unnecessary animal suffering. more than 1.1 million eu citizens have also signed up to an 8-hour limit, an unprecedented number. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. now we have a chance to show that this wasn't just some nice talk for the stage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animals are not left behind.
blue-card question. – ms gál, i hear you say that you are complimenting the rapporteur on an excellent report – you actually pick out a topic, minority rights – and then you go on to say that fundamental rights should not be a political debate, therefore the epp will put forward an alternative resolution. could you please explain to the european citizens and this house why putting forward an alternative resolution dismissing the excellent report by the rapporteur is not a political game with fundamental rights?
i see an interesting interplay between you and your colleague mr rehn and president van rompuy. in september you proposed a 'justice scoreboard', an annual assessment of the legal systems of all member states in the context of the european semester. commissioner rehn took the lead and put more emphasis on the quality and independence of national justice systems in his annual growth analysis last month. the country-specific recommendations that result from this will be given a somewhat more binding character in the plans of mr van rompuy, the third man in your trio. he also called for the commission and the member states to translate the recommendations into reform contracts with financial incentives. it may be a rather difficult construction, but i think that if we were to stipulate in a contract that the shortcomings in legal protection should be addressed, this could be a major step forward in the monitoring of our fundamental rights. may i compliment you on that? but may i ask you to look at not just justice, but also democracy and media freedom and the whole package? i'd like your answer.
mr president, this so-called 'future' of economic and monetary union is in reality the beginning of the end. the end of national sovereignty, democracy and prosperity. the banking union means that in the end the dutch taxpayer pays the bill for bankruptcies in southern europe. eurobonds are going to cost the netherlands billions every year. countries that make fun of it will have to pay the price. the netherlands will bear the costs. in socialist eu parlance this is called solidarity. the eu as a permanent charitable institution is now in full swing. the dutch treasury is being plundered. and as if that were not bad enough, the netherlands is also at the mercy of brussels. the european union will impose and enforce contracts. the labour market, the housing market, taxation, the tentacles of brussels are everywhere. the netherlands loses control over its own budget, which must first be submitted to brussels. the european union's hunger for more money, power and authority is insatiable. if the netherlands does not resist, it will be reduced to a mere province within a federal european superstate, and that is not desirable.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial and monetary union. you can count on our support. i would like to say to mr verhofstadt and others: complaining will not help, but we must show the strength to restore confidence and provide jobs for our citizens. crucial to restoring trust is that we adopt the two-pack in the short term. your demands are unrealistic. you too must take a step forward and let us show that parliament can also act on this point. european banking supervision is also crucial to restoring confidence. but it is a matter of strong european banking supervision. i am concerned when i see the debate between the ministers, where the national interests seem to prevail. parliament has an ambitious position. we are ready for negotiations and we will make a firm commitment to that.
in writing. − i abstained on amendment 1 because of its reference to smart fiscal consolidation in the framework of the eu’s excessive deficit procedures; however i strongly support the notion that a budgetary freeze would have been more desirable.
in writing. the pvv believes that brussels is taking too much power. the same applies to this case, where the commission is again given all the power. animal welfare is a matter of civility and decency. although the pvv has a very warm heart for animal welfare, we believe that any legislation and enforcement should be regulated at national level, and not dictated by brussels bureaucrats. the pvv calls on all its fellow meps to raise the issue of animal welfare in their home countries, especially where abuses are still taking place.
mr president, the house is full of talk about human rights. lady ashton in particular, always blowing high from the tower. the eu must promote human rights worldwide, she said. and my party also regrets when human rights are violated anywhere in the world. but the union's policy is completely inconsistent, even hypocritical. you say you are committed to the principles of human rights in the world, but i do not hear you talking about the many christians, jews and women in the muslim world. they live as second-class citizens and are severely oppressed. and i don't hear you about the human rights situation in turkey, where journalists are in prison for criticizing the government or criticizing islam. and i don't hear you talking about human rights in egypt, where islamists are changing the constitution to introduce sharia, a real horror for the minorities in that country. the conclusion, mr president, is that the eu's human rights policy is utterly unbelievable, a farce.
as rapporteur for eu-china relations, i have noted paragraph 141 of the donskis report with great satisfaction. on the basis of international human rights law, this paragraph rightly criticises the repressive attitude of the chinese government towards the thriving protestant house church and the underground roman catholic church. beijing should not impose any registration requirements on this church, let alone any unlawful government attempts to deny these unregistered churches and their congregants the fundamental right to religious freedom. in short, i am very grateful that the european parliament is speaking with one voice on this urgent and cardinal issue of freedom of religion and belief. i expect the same from the council and the commission, of course, especially when i hear that the chinese house churches are already taking account of increasing government interference in the approaching christmas period.
on behalf of the ppe group i note, mrs malmström, that you have incorporated much of your past experience, but also of your current work, into your speech, and i thank you very much for that. i also thank the rapporteur, mr swoboda. we in the ppe group can fully agree with his report. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. russia is our biggest neighbor and you normally have a good relationship with neighbors. we have a saying in the netherlands: 'better a good neighbour than a distant friend'. but i have a feeling that russia is becoming less and less of a good neighbor. it seems that they are not interested in having a good relationship. the efta delegation next week, invited by russia, notwithstanding the fact that the russian government's counterparts are not present, is a clear example of this. president, if we as parliamentarians want to talk about strengthening mutual interests, about the rule of law, which is so important to both of us, about the rule of law, about strengthening democracy, about fully implementing civil liberties and human rights, then the russian authorities will not give in. the same applies to the strategic partnership and cooperation agreement. there are no real negotiations anymore, because russia is really only interested in visa facilitation and good agreements that are beneficial for russia in the energy field. mr swoboda and all of us want to get that file out of the partnership agreement quickly. but then we must not be left on the sidelines here as parliament, but also as the european commission. that means that the treaty should be short and should actually contain only one word and that is: i'm not sure. mr president, we have indicated in the report that what russia always says to us is: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the way in which the opposition is silenced, the way in which the work of civil society is made more difficult, is also very bad for the economic and social development of russia itself. i would like to see a better relationship with russia, mr president, and we are now again indicating what should be done to achieve that.
just a week ago, a dutch correspondent in russia reported on the increasing difficulties in being able to carry out his profession as a journalist in a normal way. he had traveled to the north caucasus, to stavropol, and was approached there when he was watching a parade of cossacks as if he were a foreign spy, and he said that actually half of his local contacts had canceled the conversation with him there. and two hotels turned him down. that brings me to the point already raised by my dutch colleague, mrs oomen-ruijten: a strategic partnership requires reciprocity. that means free press for russian journalists outside russia in the european union, but also free press for european journalists in russia. i hope that this important point will be brought to russia by our authorities in the negotiations on the strategic partnership.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is another urgent appeal for leadership by vice-president/high representative ashton. early last year the eu made a promise to our citizens and to people in north africa and the middle east who called for freedom, justice, human rights and opportunities. we saw the consequences of supporting decades of dictatorial regimes and decided that, even with an uncertain future ahead, the eu needed a more values-based policy to build partnerships with people in these countries. our promise to reward more democratic reforms with more financial assistance has barely been implemented, but is now being seriously tested. president morsi made the very bad judgement of grabbing more power than president mubarak had ever had, placing himself beyond judicial scrutiny. our efforts to help bring investments and economic reconstruction to egypt are replaced by serious concern and the need for urgent crisis management. the egyptian people do not deserve this leadership – inexperienced yet power-hungry. democracy is much more than ‘one man, one vote’, and relying on checks on power via the streets is not sustainable. egypt needs the rule of law. and what has been the eu response to this proactive power grab? it took weeks for a very weak statement to be issued, and the first statement by the vice-president/high representative after 22 november 2012 was an announcement that the eu would return frozen assets of the mubarak regime to egypt. a more poorly timed and wrongly guided message is hardly imaginable. a partnership with the new egypt is very important to us. when people in our neighbourhood flourish, so do we, and this is not just an economic story. we need to stand firmly for the universal rights of all egyptian people. and it is disappointing that the eu is not stronger. we are letting the people of egypt as well as our own promises down. with regard to the referendum and any developments that may unfold we must be much more vigilant or we should stop pretending about conditionality.
what do you do when a friend starts doing something strange and you can no longer understand why he is doing it? what do you do when a country is trying to find a democracy, but it's so polarized that there's no room for compromise? we were in egypt recently with the task force, with mrs ashton, and i noticed in talks with parliamentarians in egypt that it is not in the customs or in the manners of the day to compromise, to take a step, to know when to take a step back, to leave room for the colleague who does not agree with you. and that means we are looking at a country that seems to be off track. and yes, i get incredibly worried when i see how president morsi operates. but i also know that when a friend does something crazy, you tell him the truth first: mr morsi, in three weeks to pass a constitution is very unwise, but 2. you stay with it and it stays your friend and you keep looking for ways to assist. megaphone diplomacy is not the way the european union is going to restore the rule of law in egypt. my request to mrs ashton and to mr füle is therefore: stay with it! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the draft constitution, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the draft constitution. fortunately, she is far from alone. a close reading of the text of the draft constitution makes it clear why christians and secularists in egypt strongly oppose this text from the muslim brotherhood. some concrete examples to illustrate: article 219 allows for the codification and full application of the sharia, islamic law, and as appears from article 4, promotes the high council of clerics of al-azhar as the sole competent authority to interpret laws and to check whether they are in accordance with the constitution and the sharia. this constitutional article aims at a decisive influence of islamic scholars, the ulema, on the judicial, legislative and executive branches of government. no less than that! what conclusions and consequences do the council and the commission draw from this scenario of president morsi or, probably much earlier, of the 'murshid', the real leader of egypt, mohammed badai, the head of the muslim brotherhood?
mr president, much has been said today, but let us be honest. from the day it came into existence, the state of israel has been confronted with terror and war – a war israel did not seek itself. today, hamas in the south and in the gaza strip, and hezbollah in the north, are engaging in terrorism. that is bad for the palestinians, but what can israel do but react? i do not believe that extra settlements are the right reaction. what we, the european parliament, should do is tell hamas to stop this terror now, to recognise israel and to sit at a table together with their palestinian authority. we should tell them to stop now.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think that many in this house are united. we believe in bringing ukraine and the european union closer together. we are committed, just as the commission is committed. commissioner füle has our full support. as we look at the benchmarks, the osce and the odihr have concluded that the elections were a setback. that is a very serious thing. not progress, but a setback. and how can this be changed? ukraine must act and must act by making an electoral law which is up to european or international standards. it should do so. if we look at the referendum law, that should also be brought up to the standards set out by the commission. and look at law 8711, under which people who speak out on behalf of homosexuals and others may be prosecuted. this law should either be repealed by the government or should be voted down by the rada. there is much to be done, and ukraine should take the european union seriously. we reach out our hands, and i think this is true for the whole house here, the commission and the council. it is now up to ukraine to make a difference, and i agree with both previous speakers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, concerning albania, one of our greatest worries is always the political climate, the lack of even the willingness to cooperate between the different main parties. things seem to have improved in the last year, and for a while their parliament seemed to be in working order. but now i am not so sure. in november, three requested pieces of legislation failed to pass in the parliament as a result of a totally unrelated power struggle. why? prime minister berisha announced that all ethnic albanians could get albanian passports, knowing full well what this would cause in the region. he has been a politician for far too long not to realise this. why? our parliamentary delegation meeting, which was planned for next week, was cancelled at the last moment. i had my suitcase ready. i was looking forward to constructive and cooperative dialogue with the coalition and opposition, but they obviously were not. why? all of that came just before a very important council meeting. it was basically a concerted effort to ruin all chances of albania gaining candidate status. why on earth? to me it seems that the campaign for next year’s election has started in earnest already, this early. disregarding what the country needs, disregarding the european agenda. i for one would love to grant the people of albania candidate status, but i am afraid that their chosen politicians have again lost themselves in an internal power struggle, and that that will not be possible until they get their priorities straight again. so please, please, mr berisha, mr rama, in the interests of your people, please. thank you.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i can talk to the commissioner, but at the end of the day, this is about the willingness of the member states to take in refugees. i hear you say that the european union is prepared to pay for shelter in the region. but we know the numbers now: half a million syrians have fled to neighboring countries. when we put a question on this subject, some 300 syrians had entered europe and i do not know how many syrians have now boarded a boat in turkey to reach a greek island and have not made it. we can be loyal, and we can not send back syrians if they manage to reach the european borders, we can offer them temporary protection, but what remains is that we don't actually take syrians in. in fact, we are making it difficult for turkey, we are reprimanding turkey at the moment that they are allowing syrians to cross to reach europe. my colleague papanikolaou has already made it clear that if we do not tackle this problem together, a number of countries in europe will again be in serious trouble, including greece, of course. my comment to the council is therefore: stop saying we will pay for shelter in the region, stop predicting that it will be a trend for refugees from syria to come to europe, but make sure that we, with 27 member states, start taking refugees and taking them out of jordan and turkey, because they will not survive the winter well.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to thank mrs tatjana ždanoka, who is faced with an incredibly complex strategic decision. let me take you back to this week: on monday mr van rompuy received the nobel peace prize together with mr schulz and mr barroso, on tuesday evening we debated the state of human rights in the european union in 2010 and 2011, on wednesday morning we had a ceremony here to celebrate the european union's receipt of the nobel peace prize, on wednesday afternoon we had the representatives of the sakharov prize winners, on wednesday evening we were allowed to speak about the human rights situation in the rest of the world, and today we are here to talk about the work of the fundamental rights office. we talked about human rights all week, sometimes it was a pleasure, but sometimes it was a cry. that's it! how is it possible that we can point the finger and be very sharp when it comes to human rights in the world, but when it comes to human rights in europe, the council says that we can do a little less. i would like to quote mr schulz, who said in the plenary session here on wednesday morning: "peace, to me, begins with the absence of the word 'but.' democracy is good, "but" ..., human rights must be guaranteed, "but" ..., tolerance is good, "but" ..., and he continues and ends with "that can't be". i think we should get rid of the word 'but', we should respect each other's human rights, without the word 'but'. there is such a big "but" to the fundamental rights office and its work for the coming year. they're not supposed to do anything they're not asked to do, but there's one crucial thing missing from their job description, and that's judicial cooperation. member states do not want any snooping in their criminal investigations and in their way of storing and exchanging data. i find that very disturbing, and you see what comes of it; i am thinking of the european arrest warrant, where citizens are transferred from one country to another, trapped in sometimes terrible conditions in pre-trial detention that can last for incredibly long periods of time; then they are brought before a judge, perhaps for a crime too small to be so exterminated. judicial cooperation should really be part of the investigative capacity of the fundamental rights office. and until that happens, we're basically looking away and saying, "yes, but the member states and their criminal cases are all right" or "we actually think that human rights are a little less applicable there". i think this parliament should keep its back straight. it is wise that we agree now. we are keeping our backs up, but i would like to remind you that the debate we have had this week on the state of human rights in europe has taken on a political dimension in recent years. i wonder if that's the right way.
we are discussing today the work programme of the european union agency for fundamental rights. the agency shall provide assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights to the institutions of the union and to the member states. but to be a member of the union, a state must already have stable institutions, and these must provide guarantees in the field of democracy, the rule of law, human rights, respect for minorities and their protection. the member states have therefore known these fundamental rights for a long time, otherwise they would not be members of the union. that makes this office completely redundant. the bureau is used mainly as a symbol of european morality; we can show the rest of the world how high we stand on human rights, how greatly we do on this old continent. but the advertising column has to have something to do, and that's why the agency came up with the plan to make free health care for illegal immigrants a duty of the member states. new fundamental rights are being invented all the time. mr president, real fundamental rights are the right of association, the right of the press, the right to freedom of expression, but this european parliament is not in favour of that at all. our president, mr schulz, condemned the distribution of a film here the other day. fundamental rights are not taken seriously here and are used only as political toys. the bureau exists only for the greater glory of the moral knights in the european parliament and therefore i think that the bureau should be abolished. it saves money and annoyance.
president. - mr commissioner, we have been talking about growth in europe for some time now and it has become a magic word in politics. we need growth and more jobs. but i think it has to do with consumer and business confidence in the future of the market. the government is not an entrepreneur, and fortunately so. we create conditions that enable businesses and consumers to conduct their business and make purchases in a familiar environment. the government provides those conditions, and what does this show? many of the laws that are being made in europe are seen as hindering entrepreneurship. why would you do that? because, as is often said, we say so, but we have never put it into practice, because we are still working with directives that are transposed incorrectly or differently in each country, which means that there are enormous differences in the internal market. i have been advocating for years to focus on regulations that work equally everywhere. and for the rest - if we are to work with directives per se - let us renationalize and return the cases to the member states. let's enter that separately. that means a huge saving of work in europe and we are left with only european legislation that works everywhere and is the same everywhere for every consumer and every entrepreneur. when investing, think of tax benefits instead of subsidies! because subsidies, it turns out, work like a sleeping pill, and a sleeping pill makes companies sleepy and not actually working on innovation. so let us call innovation 'innovation' and create the jobs we all want.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, colleagues, a toxic cocktail of violence over natural resources, rape, the recruiting and employment of child soldiers, and poverty are destabilising eastern congo and affecting almost two and a half million people. paramilitary groups are continuing to commit the worst crimes and are even helped by neighbours. it is clear that the eu needs to act in a coordinated manner with the united nations and the african union to push for an end to these ongoing and horrible events, and also to prevent an even further regional spill-over in the entire great lakes region. the eu should act jointly and strongly. now several eu member states have suspended aid to rwanda as a result of the un report that alleges involvement in the conflicts in the democratic republic of the congo. we also need an eu position towards all the individuals who violated the arms embargo. we can do more on the demand side by improving transparency in reporting on illegally mined minerals, for example. independent investigations are also needed. the perpetrators of human rights violations, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, sexual violence against women, and the recruiting of child soldiers should be brought to justice. the impunity must end, and i want to draw specific attention to the cowardly attack on the courageous dr mukwege, which killed his bodyguard. this case still needs to be independently investigated. he helped many women, and it is women who are the main victims of the ongoing violence.
- a writer. - it is right that the european parliament is holding a plenary debate today on caste discrimination in india. because the 200 million dalits, the uncastrated, are in a situation that is often hopeless. they have a terrible job to do and i will not go into too much detail about that now, just after lunch. sadly, many also end up in forced prostitution. the indian government has been promising for years that it will tackle the problems and on paper the plans and rules that are being devised look pretty good too, but the day-to-day practice is completely different. one of the biggest problems is that the people who destroyed the dalit's homes, sold them as slaves and forced them into prostitution are not being prosecuted. in fact, each year hundreds, possibly thousands, of dalits are tortured by the police. actually, the dalits in india are bird-free. mr president, that must change and that can change. i believe that we as the european union can make a significant contribution to this. we are negotiating with india on energy and our trade relations. i think we should not forget the position of the unfortunate. india must reform the police and judicial apparatus in such a way that the poorest and most discriminated against are not pushed further down but are protected. let that be a condition of the european union in its relations with india and in the talks on the new trade agreement.
author. − mr president, as caste discrimination and modern-day slavery are still serious and systematic problems affecting hundreds of millions of indians, more needs to be done in terms of the efforts that the authorities have taken, and more can be done than has been so far. we hope that the indian parliament will pass a proposed bill which would create more protection for the most vulnerable people and minority groups. there also needs to be improvement in both the reporting of cases of discrimination and abuse and the security of the people who report it, and the people responsible for such abuse need to be held accountable. ngos or civil society groups that support the most vulnerable people in india should not be hindered from receiving funds from third countries. the eu should step up its efforts to address these problems locally in india and reach out to these minority populations. however, we should also address discrimination and abuse more firmly in the course of international dialogues or eu-india dialogues. as the world watches with interest how india is going to develop economically, we should be equally firm in ensuring that its progress and development are reflected in the improvement of human rights protection as well.
