i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 15 december 2011.
a few remarks to start with. five days ago, we received the sad news of the death of gilles jacquier, a french journalist who was killed in the syrian city of homs. in the past year alone, over a hundred journalists have been killed in the line of duty. the european parliament has always stood up for freedom of expression. we have defended and will always defend those who reveal the truth and proclaim it to the public. at least six people have died and dozens are missing after an italian cruise ship crashed. on behalf of the european parliament, i offer my condolences to the families of the victims. this accident shouldn't have happened. we believe that the lessons of this disaster will be learned everywhere. we have received news of the death of manuel fraga iribarne. yesterday spain and europe lost a great statesman, one of the main architects of spanish democracy, the founder of the popular party, whose members are with us in this chamber. the late manuel fraga iribarne himself was also a member of the european parliament in the 1980s. on behalf of our colleague, the daughter of the late mrs. carmen fragi estévez, i offer my condolences to the entire family. on december 18 of last year, václav havel, the president of czechoslovakia and then twice president of the czech republic, resigned. europe, not just czechs and slovaks, has lost a man who is a symbol of the velvet revolution and above all of the reunification of our continent. he was a brave statesman. as we remember two years ago, in november 2009, václav havel was a guest at the european parliament. we received it with standing ovations. today we all pay tribute to his memory. i was present on behalf of all of you, colleagues, at the funeral of president václav havel in prague. it was a great celebration, a european celebration, and even a celebration of a non-european dimension. a dozen heads of state and government were present. in a great gathering we said goodbye to the great european, the great czech. i'd like to ask you to observe a moment of silence for both of our deceased statesmen. (parliamentarians rise and hold a minute of silence)
in accordance with rule 12 and other important points in the rules of procedure, i have only a statement for you today on the candidates for the presidency of the european parliament; we are not discussing any other issues. in accordance with the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure, i have received the following nominations for the post of president of the european parliament: mr nirj deva (applause), mr martin schulz (applause), mrs diana wallis (applause). the candidates have informed me that they agree to run. the current composition of parliament is set out in today's minutes. i hereby adjourn this session in accordance with the rules of procedure. thank you, and i'll see you tomorrow for the election of the chairman and then the vice-chairmen and the quaestors.
this court is now in session. i would remind you that, under the rules of procedure, no debate may be held under the chairmanship of the outgoing president other than the election of the president or the verification of the terms of office, and i therefore do not accept any comments or discussions from you today. we can only deal with the election of the president of the european parliament. it's in accordance with our rules of procedure. i am also aware that the rules of procedure require that we elect the president of parliament before noon today. rule 13 of the rules of procedure says that only a political group or at least 40 members may be nominated as candidates. in accordance with the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure, i have received the following three candidates for the office of president of the european parliament: (i presented these candidates to you yesterday, but i will read them again today) mr nirj deva (applause), mr martin schulz (applause) and mrs diana wallis (applause). i just wanted to point out that the candidates have informed me that they're willing to run. ladies and gentlemen! we're going to proceed to the voting procedure. i would like to ask you to not leave your seats prematurely, because most of the voting instructions will be given in polish, so if you move from your seats and don't have headphones, you won't be able to hear me. we now move to the vote. i would remind you that, in accordance with rule 14 (1), the candidate who receives an absolute majority of the valid votes cast is elected. empty or invalid ballots are not counted as votes cast. first, i'm going to draw lots for eight members, eight colleagues, who will be responsible for calculating the votes. they shall be drawn by lot from the total number of names of all members present in the lottery. i'm showing you the urn with the names of the deputies and i'm pulling out the names of the following: borsellino, sógor, panayotov, poc, bagó, kalinowski, kalfin, perello rodriguez. colleagues, please come and stand behind me on the podium. ladies and gentlemen! i'm giving you the exact voting instructions that you received in your inbox. i understand that not everyone has had time to read them, so i'll go over the different phases of the vote. first, the ballot papers and envelopes will be handed out. these ballots and envelopes can now be distributed. we now move to the vote. i would remind you again that an absolute majority of valid votes is required for the election. when you receive your ballot papers, please tick the box next to your name. so the candidate we vote for gets our stamps. you can only vote for one candidate. if there are two or three stamps on the ballot, the vote is void. if there are any letters, the vote is invalid. if you want to improve your voice, you can. then you give this voting card to the people who are giving out the cards and you take the new card, but you have to give the old card back. i will not read the names of the voting members. please remain in your seats. what's the big deal? the names of members who took part in the vote must be entered in the minutes. therefore, i ask that you sign the list of eligible voters before you put your ballot in the ballot box. i'd like you to sign the letter at the urn. at the same time, i would ask that you have your id and show it. you have to put the ballot paper in the envelope, before that, we fold the ballot paper into four. the members designated to conduct the vote and to count the votes shall vote at the end. that's all i have to say. i understand your colleague has a question about the voting procedure.
these cases have also been formally investigated. please note that under the new code of conduct, we have three months to do this. ladies and gentlemen! i'm opening the voting now, and everyone goes to their polling booth. (the president established that all those wishing to vote had done so.) the vote is closed. members who are designated to calculate the votes are requested to go to room r01101 to begin the counting of the votes. this court is adjourned. the court will resume with the bell. (the sitting was suspended at 9.45 for the votes to be counted. it resumed at 10.30.)
here are the results of the vote. the number of votes cast was 699, the ballots were blank or invalid 29, the votes cast were 670, the absolute majority was 336. the following were voted in favour: mr nirj deva 142 (long applause), mr martin schulz 387 (long applause), mrs diana wallis 141 (long applause). mr martin schulz received an absolute majority of the votes cast and was elected president of the european parliament. (loud and long applause) congratulations. i am sure that under your leadership the european parliament will remain the key centre of democratic power in the eu. as parliamentarians, we have an obligation to engage europeans in our joint undertakings and to be the link to the european institutions. we all count on you, president schulz, to ensure that the european parliament will be as it is: the heart of the european debate and the place where european policies are created for the benefit of our citizens. i would now like to invite you, president schulz, to come to the podium and replace me in this chair as the newly elected president of the european parliament. (loud and sustained applause)
mr president, prime minister, please! denmark is the next country to assume the presidency of the council of the european union, promising to lead the community out of the economic crisis and to ensure economic growth. we only have six months left. it should be recalled that a similar priority was included in the agenda of the belgian, hungarian and polish presidencies, not to mention the lisbon treaty. it is in the interest of all european union citizens that this objective should finally be achieved. however, looking at the efforts of previous presidents and the continuing economic problems, it is almost certain that the next presidency will have to put a similar priority on its agenda. the danish presidency will also deal with the budget for the years 2014-2020. it is therefore particularly important that it maintains such an important cohesion fund, which enables the new members of the union from central and eastern europe to develop. in the 'green europe' area, denmark is committed to sustainable economic growth on the one hand, and to continuing to push for eu climate packages on the other. many experts believe that these two trends are mutually exclusive.
in writing. it is a pleasure to welcome our danish colleagues from the presidential trio. i am also pleased to see a woman, prime minister helle thorning-schmidt, at the head of the council of the european union. the programme you have presented is extremely extensive and ambitious. but seeing the energy your government is putting into it, i'm sure it will be successful. in times of crisis, europe must be dynamic and responsible. the decisions taken at the european summit of 9 december 2011 must now be implemented in order to strengthen fiscal policies and safeguard economic stability in the member states. we must continue to work towards a more secure financial market, a more competitive community market and a greener europe that is safer for all its citizens. in the danish presidency, i am personally pleased to see the continuation of the work on the so-called digital agenda within the framework of the european programme for culture. as the author of the report on the legal use of orphan works, which is one of the priorities for the next 6 months, i am convinced that this project will be completed and will open up to all interested parties the cultural treasures hidden in the archives for years. i wish you perseverance, efficiency and much success in the coming months of intense work.
in writing. the danish presidency faces a very difficult task, especially as the european union remains in a deep crisis. this crisis is not only affecting the budgetary situation of the member states, but above all the identity of the eu. the days are coming when the future of a united europe will be decided. it is becoming increasingly clear that the new intergovernmental agreement being prepared to strengthen the economic union may not only lead to a deepening of the divide between the euro area and the rest of the world, but also to a weakening of the community institutions. the danish presidency should therefore focus primarily on defending the cohesion of the union, its community character and the principle of solidarity. it may be worrying that copenhagen has no immediate plans to adopt a common currency. in addition, the previous government was in favour of reducing the community budget. but i hope that this will not affect the attitude of our danish friends. i am optimistic that they will be able to represent the interests of all the member states during their presidency. my optimism is based mainly on the memory of how brilliantly they handled the finalisation of the accession negotiations preceding the so-called great enlargement. it seems that at such a difficult time, the presidency of the council could not have been more appropriate. it is not only known for its openness to the other side's arguments and a culture of compromise, but also for its ability to use these qualities in practice.
in writing. one of the activities of denmark during its presidency of the council will be to continue the talks on the new multiannual financial framework. i hope that the presidency will negotiate successfully on cohesion policy, which is the most pro-development policy of the european union. i am also pleased that the danish government will be taking up the issue of a european programme for social change and innovation, which is to provide, among other things, greater access to micro-credit to increase self-employment and business development, or greater freedom of movement for job seekers and the possibility of recruiting workers from across europe. i believe that an effective cohesion policy and increased employment are one of the key aspects on the way to generating economic growth in the european union.
in writing. the year 2012, which is the year of the danish presidency, is the european year of older persons and solidarity between generations. i am pleased that the presidency is planning a number of initiatives in this regard. according to un projections, the proportion of people aged over 65 in europe will reach 23.8% by 2030. in poland, it is projected that by 2060 there will be two retirees for every three people in work, and the number of people over 80 will increase four to fivefold. the problem of an ageing population is widely recognised as a challenge that the european union as a whole must address. we urgently need an effective european demographic policy with a particular focus on economic and health issues. i hope that the danish presidency will promote gender equality in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, in line with the commission's strategy on this issue and the adapted european pact for gender equality. i call for the conclusion of the proposal for a council directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. as the author of the opinion on women in sport and the written statement on amateur sport, i draw attention to the promotion of physical activity to improve the health and quality of life of eu citizens.
in writing. this is the seventh time that denmark holds the presidency of the council. but it seems that this presidency will be the most difficult. however, we believe that an efficient and constructive danish administration, experienced in european leadership, can coordinate the crisis response. at the same time, however, we are aware that, as in the case of poland, the fact that denmark is not a member of the euro area may prove to be a difficulty. the danish presidency will also have to agree on the key elements of the future budgetary framework for 2014-2020. there's no doubt that the negotiations will be very difficult. we expect denmark to be able to find a compromise among the member states to ensure that the funds are at the right level for each of the union's policies. i believe that the slogan "budget for the future" used by danish politicians means that we should focus on new challenges in particular areas, rather than radical redistribution or cuts. i am personally convinced that denmark will be able to meet the challenges and expectations we place on it. it is worth recalling that it was under the danish presidency in the second half of 2002 that the difficult accession negotiations with the group of 10 new europe countries, including poland, were concluded. i hope that denmark can achieve similar successes in the budget negotiations and in the fight against the debt crisis.
in writing. mr. speaker, thank you, prime minister, for your presentation of the programme today. i would like to express my strong support for some of his ideas and to be particularly sensitive to a few issues. i welcome the fact that the danish presidency is committed to supporting strong european institutions, to respecting common principles based on european values and to stimulating dynamic economic development. the important thing is that you want to base your actions on the principle of solidarity. i think this is the most important thing, because it is the only way to avoid serious and dangerous divisions within the union, whatever economic and social turmoil we may still face. budgetary discipline and fiscal austerity are indisputably necessary. but i do hope that, as you come from a country with a tradition of social economy, you will make sure that these cuts are not the most vulnerable. it is particularly concerned about the situation of women, whose employment rate is still low and is likely to fall further, young people who remain unemployed for too long after completing their education, the situation of the disabled and the occupational involvement of people over 50. despite the savings, there must be money and adequate programmes to create new jobs. i wish you success in achieving your goals.
in writing. a responsible, dynamic, green and secure europe - these four adjectives, which underline the priorities of the new presidency, are welcome, as they show that denmark, despite the enormous crisis in which the union finds itself, is enthusiastic about its task. but he is not happy with the start of the danish presidency, especially its role in the most important negotiations currently underway on the fiscal pact. the presidency should safeguard the interests of the union as a whole and oppose any division within the union which would occur without the consent of all its members. i therefore expect her support for the most inclusive and community-wide fiscal compact possible.
in writing. the danish presidency has entered a difficult period for a united europe, with many, often difficult, decisions ahead. the economic crisis, which we are still trying to overcome, has shown us that we cannot rely on european policy to solve problems in the short term. it is therefore crucial to implement the priorities of the danish presidency for a dynamic and responsible community economy, which should become a constant point of reference for each successive presidency. only by deepening cooperation in a spirit of solidarity can we build a truly common, efficient and innovative market that is capable of maintaining its global position in the future, not just for a few years but for decades. but this requires making the difficult choices and setting ambitious political, economic and social targets, which no member state can achieve on its own. this huge workload must be felt at all levels, from the learning and development of children and young people, through social organisations, businesses and all those involved in their operation, to individuals and organisations operating internationally. only in this way can we together, in solidarity and in a lasting way, strengthen the foundations of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the outcome of the european council meeting of 8 and 9 december 2011. i am aware of the deep and still imperfect implications of the proposed intergovernmental agreement. the first concerns the fact that this agreement is in addition to the current structure and the constitutional documents of the european union. it is still unclear how this agreement can work, what references it will make to the lisbon treaty. i hope that this agreement will not undermine the treaty, that it will ensure the proper role of the european parliament and that it will not discriminate against countries outside the euro area, including poland. the agreement must not undermine democracy within the eu or replace the commission, parliament or council with other entities.
in writing. - the current version of the draft fiscal pact raises a number of legal doubts which will affect its effective enforcement. the signing and ratification of the agreement in the form proposed will lead to the creation of an alternative legal order, whose relationship with european law remains undefined in many areas. the issues that remain unresolved include the primacy of community law, the jurisdiction of the court of justice of the eu and the competences of the other european institutions. the question of insufficient democratic legitimacy, which can only be achieved through greater involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments, is also of importance. from the point of view of economic governance, however, it should be noted that most of the provisions of the proposed intergovernmental agreement can be implemented more quickly and efficiently by the community method, using the stability and growth pact as revised in december. the community method formula also allows for the inclusion of non-euro area countries in the decision-making process, thereby avoiding additional institutions within the eu. in this context, attention should be drawn to the european parliament's demand that all parties to the agreement, both current and future euro area members, should have the right to participate in the eurogroup summits. it should be noted that the euro area does not operate under an opt-in formula and that non-euro area countries are only covered by a temporary derogation. inclusion in economic governance decision-making is therefore in everyone's interest, as most member states have committed themselves to joining the euro area.
in writing. − we are aware that the current economic situation in the euro area requires immediate action. although the fiscal compact contains many positive provisions imposing financial discipline on the participating countries, there are also many doubts about its functioning. first, we need to answer the question: how will the pact affect the transparency of decision-making in the eu? it creates a parallel dimension of cooperation and the exact date for its incorporation into the treaties is difficult to determine. will this not weaken integration within the european union? second, critics point out that the fiscal pact duplicates many of the solutions contained in the six-pack or the stabilisation and growth pact. does this not create confusion in the interpretation of individual acts of eu law? thirdly, there is a risk that the pact will create divisions within the union, the consequences of which are difficult to predict. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. fourthly, the recent changes to the draft document have led to the marginalisation of the role of the community institutions. the european commission is deprived of the power to bring complaints against member states to the court of justice of the eu, which has always been its domain, and the european parliament's participation in euro-area summits is very much marginalised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a resolution which criticises the current draft intergovernmental fiscal pact. the new agreement should not diminish the role of the european parliament in the ongoing negotiations or of the non-euro area member states. the new agreement must include an amendment to the right of future euro-zone members to participate in euro summits. the debate should be between all the members of the european union. the european commission agrees that the union's unity should be the overriding objective. secondly, it is necessary to ensure that the new draft agreement contains a clear statement that eu law takes precedence over the agreement in the pipeline. i am convinced that only the community method can transform monetary union into a really strong economic and fiscal union. we are ready for further negotiations and will seek to reach a constructive and solid agreement that takes into account our key demands.
in writing. - parliament is in favour of the greatest possible communityisation of the agreement, which, in the face of the united kingdom's opposition, could not be concluded within the union. markets want decisive action, and euro area countries need to commit quickly to greater financial discipline. however, this does not mean that it should be done at the expense of the unity of the union and its institutions. hence my support for the ep's demand for the implementation of the pact through community legislation, a central role for the european commission, the involvement of the ep and, most importantly for poland, absolute support for the participation of countries that do not yet have a common currency in the euro summits.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in 1956, the hungarian aspirations for freedom and nationalism were brutally crushed by the soviet union with tanks. it was only because the brave hungarian people had the courage to demand the right to decide their own internal affairs, to exercise their own sovereignty, to create their own affairs. fortunately, those days are gone, but it is a paradox of history that today in the european union there are attempts to use the institution of the union and the financial means of pressure to restrict once again the free democratic choice of the hungarian people. this time the hungarian people must defend their freedoms, their democratic elections, their sovereignty in their internal affairs against the machinations of the multinational corporations that the european commission represents to the hungarians. the issue of the constitution or the law on free media has become just a pretext for attacks on prime minister orban's hungary, on prime minister orban's right-wing government, because he is courageously rebuilding his country after the terrible times of the communist governments and the governments of their post-communist successors, because he had the courage to impose taxes on banks, international corporations, because he had the courage in the constitution to refer to christianity, to the beautiful national tradition, to the traditional understanding of the family as opposed to the left-wing correctness that is glowing in the european halls. hold on, mr. prime minister, we're with you!
mr president, i would say to prime minister orbán that, as with every human undertaking, his has its faults and deserves fair criticism, but a lot of what we have heard today was not criticism but a series of angry outbursts on the verge of hysteria. some of the regulations my colleagues criticised hungary for, concerning the central bank or the supreme court, exist also in my country, poland, but to criticise them never crossed their minds. why? because they approve of the polish government, and they disapprove of the hungarian government purely for ideological reasons. when hungary was ravaged by the socialist government this chamber shamefully kept silent. why? because of the disease of double standards. but there is also another disease: not to trust people. the people of hungary are still supporting mr orbán’s government. why do we not trust those people? after all, it is they, and not the eu, who are the real guardians of democracy. prime minister orbán, i wish you and the hungarian people every success.
mr. chairman, please! i think i'm not the only one who doesn't like the spectacle of calling the hungarian prime minister to the table. i think that the founders of europe - schuman, de gasperi, adenauer - are also turning in their graves today, as they see the europe of free nations that they founded turning into a superbureaucracy that is trying to interfere in the life of a sovereign country. strasbourg is not canossa, and viktor orbán is not henry iv, and there is nothing to explain here. who did viktor orbán expose himself to? he was risking big capital first, because he had to rebuild a country that had been bankrupt for half a century under the communists and their socialist crusaders. to do this, he taxed big capital: banks, telecommunications companies, energy companies, hypermarkets. but he's facing a full-on media frenzy today. he is facing fury from the european left because instead of renouncing christian values, he proudly inscribed them in the hungarian constitution. marriage in hungary is between a man and a woman, life is protected from conception, the world is finally on its feet. hungary is also getting anger from the socialists because hungary is now being held accountable for communist crimes, and the constitution clearly states that communism was tyranny. fury is coming to hungary from russia today because hungary is effectively pushing back russian influence and regaining control of things like mol, the largest oil company. prime minister! you stay in your suit, you don't bring a penance bag! we're with you. the truth will prevail! long live the free hungary!
mr president, prime minister, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you down. there was a lot of value here today, and values for a moment, and i wanted to talk about viktor orbán, and about history. i had the pleasure of meeting prime minister orbán in '89, when he was the leader of a student organization, and i was one of the leaders of a similar organization in poland. we met in warsaw and we talked not only about how to overthrow communism, but we talked about europe, we talked about the future, about our future in europe. we were talking about viktor orbán's dream of hungary being a european country. and they're a european country, and in my opinion, viktor orban is a democrat and a european: he fought for human rights, he fought for democracy, unlike some of his critics in hungary, who built a totalitarian system. and that's something to remember. and one word to president cohn-bendit, who is sadly leaving: we know your contribution to the democratic movements in eastern europe. i hope you haven't forgotten what a totalitarian regime is. if you have forgotten, i suggest that you go to hungary for a month and then go to chavez for a month and you will surely discover the difference.
mr. chairman, please! hungary has been the subject of scandalous criticism from european union officials over changes to its constitution and, earlier, its media law. we are astonished to see the hypocrisy of the european commission, which reacts so drastically in the case of hungary, while, for example, in poland, the ruling coalition, using its subordinate body, the national radio and television council, deliberately blocks the broadcasting of television stations on the digital platform that are inconvenient for them, such as the catholic tv trwam. because the current polish government is so enthusiastic about the eu institutions, the commission simply turns a blind eye to its discriminatory practices, even though they violate the fundamental values of the european union. in the case of hungary, however, whose government enjoys the support of an overwhelming majority of its citizens, the commission is using selective blackmail. we hope that the european parliament will stand with hungary and defend hungary.
in writing. hungary's membership of the eu and respect for community law and its rules and principles must not be a limitation on its right to self-determination. nor can the democratic mandate of the hungarian authorities to take decisions on the will, de facto, of the hungarian people and in the rule of law be questioned. it is also no secret that some initiatives are unacceptable to many european elites, because, among other things, they infringe the interests of large multinational corporations and business. the actions of the european commission are a demonstration of the means of exerting undue pressure on a democratic state and give a bad name to that institution.
in writing. in the face of the financial crisis, when it is so important to safeguard the independence of policy-making, new rules on the hungarian central bank may cause concern, which deprive its head of the right to elect deputies and increase the number of members of the monetary council elected by the government. the weakening of central bank independence may be contrary to article 130 tfeu, which provides that central banks shall not take instructions from the governments of the member states in the performance of their tasks and that the governments of the member states shall undertake not to influence the members of their decision-making bodies. but we must not forget that the eu is a community of sovereign states, which have the right to self-determination within the limits of the obligations assumed by the treaties. in the event of doubts as to the compatibility of national legislation with the acquis communautaire, a procedure is provided for, under which the member state submits its interpretation. prime minister orbán's open communication strategy and his willingness to listen to the arguments of the european institutions are to be commended. the debt crisis is the main subject of our discussions these days, but we must not forget the values on which the european community was built. in this context, it should be noted that while some are so vehemently criticizing hungary for violating the treaties, at the same time we are dealing with attempts to weaken the principle of the primacy of european law through an intergovernmental agreement and a similar debate, although equally substantive, is not taking place.
in writing. yesterday, the european commission decided to open an accelerated infringement procedure against hungary in three cases concerning the independence of the hungarian central bank, data protection authorities and judicial matters. the commission has given the hungarian government one month to make changes. the procedure initiated by the commission only addresses part of the problem faced by hungary, which is a breach of european law. in addition, hungarian democracy has a clear problem with respect for minorities, guaranteed rights of the opposition, media pluralism. i am grateful to the hungarian people for voicing their views and opinions, and often criticisms, which i listen to with attention. it is not possible to "lock" subjects of public debate, such as tax policy, in the basic law, even when these are the best solutions. the public has a right to seek change on such issues. democracy is majority rule, but it also requires respect for minorities, so now we should all look at the hungarians with concern and pressure the rulers to back off from these changes that are harmful to democracy. i wish hungary and its government success in the reforms that are helping it to emerge from recession, and that their commitment to freedom and democracy and respect for our common european law will be at the forefront of all their actions.
i think after durban we can be sure of one thing - we can be sure that our thinking about reducing emissions is isolated in the world. the extension of the kyoto protocol is just one illustration of this impasse. i think that instead of banging our heads against the wall, we should be reviewing our climate policy so that its costs are distributed more equitably. the entry of the next phase of the emissions trading system in 2013, for example in poland, will mean even more pressure to move paper, glass and cement production outside the eu. in the context of the crisis, climate policy is becoming a thorn in the side of european industry, which will eventually move to countries that are our direct competitors. the european union, by pursuing such a radical climate policy, alone, without a global agreement, is thus taking responsibility for the economic slowdown.
the lack of agreement in durban is a fact which the commission should take note of. the commissioner should also finally take this into account in her decisions and actions, because political action should be rational, pragmatic, predictable and aimed at a clear objective. climate policy is only rational if it is seen in a global perspective. greenhouse gases know no bounds, so if it is the fact that at durban canada is already completely withdrawing from the kyoto agreement, if it is the fact that the other countries which are major emitters, such as china, are not deciding on significant emission reductions together with europe, it means that our policy is a donksoteria, that our policy is not effective, that even if we manage to reduce these limits, as the commissioner and the commission propose, it will not bring the intended effect on global climate change. politics can only make sense if there is global agreement. if the effect of european policies is to reduce the competitiveness of our economy in favour of less developed countries, to which industry and jobs will migrate, this will have fatal consequences for our economy. for poland alone, it is estimated that between 2013 and 2020 this will mean a loss of 250 000 jobs. and energy bills will go up by 30-40% from 2013. this could really mean a crisis both in the european union and in relation to the european union. this is very bad news, commissioner. you have to take them into account. the facts!
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, before the durban summit, many questions were asked - what will be the position of the european union, is there a chance that by 2020 the paths of action of all countries will go in the same direction and will it be possible to work out a compromise, what about the possibility of selling co2 emissions after 2012 from the unused limits set in the kyoto protocol? i personally think, and i always stress, that we must not forget the current economic situation caused by the global economic crisis, where many not only european but also global markets are wondering what will happen in the near future. all these questions are being overlapped by globalisation, the financial crisis and national interests, and i believe that the eu's position should be a compromise, taking into account the current economic situation in europe and the world, the position of both citizens and businesses that create jobs, and the approach of the world's largest economies, such as india, china and the usa. thank you.
in writing. at the durban conference, the european union made another attempt to implement the second phase of the kyoto protocol commitments. at the conference, poland was awarded the 'fish of the day' for its continued failure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. those who seek and implement ways to reduce emissions have been reprimanded in a way that is completely incomprehensible. the eu's commitments should be conditional on comparable commitments from other world economies in order to maintain the competitiveness of the union's economy. in addition, the largest developing countries should be adequately included in this process, in line with the conclusions of the european council of october 2009. europe currently emits only 11% of its total co2 emissions into the atmosphere and is fully complying with its emission reduction commitments under the protocol. only by acting together can we help to combat climate change. the european union should not agree to extend the kyoto protocol without including these key countries. this scenario would result in only a negligible part of the emissions being covered by the transitional arrangement. the eu's ability to effectively lead the world in the fight against climate change will therefore depend to a large extent on its ability to persuade large emitters to join the fight against climate change in a legally binding way. solidarity and a fair sharing of reduction commitments should be the pillars of the further development of climate policy in the eu.
first of all, i'd like to thank our colleague karl-heise, who has done a really extraordinary job. the report was produced with the utmost care and meticulous consultation of all stakeholders. unfortunately, we had different opinions on this, but most of us were working towards one goal: how to reduce the amount of waste in our electronics and electrical equipment. this document is very important at this time because we are talking about how we want to save our resources while also taking advantage of the possibilities of waste, waste from electrical and electronic equipment. we have a hard time as europe getting the raw materials to make electronic products. here's a clue: we can do this by saying that we have these raw materials in waste and that waste should not end up in landfills. their numbers should be reduced by their recovery. it's also very important to extend the life of the equipment. we use equipment very little at the moment, and very often modernity causes us to replace it very quickly. the best models that work in europe should also be replicated, indicating the relevant country and model. and the last thing is that punishment is the last stage of law enforcement. first, let's show that there are models, that they're very good, and let's implement them.
mr. chairman, please! the new rules, which emphasise separate collection of waste, will facilitate its disposal, the recycling of raw materials and the reuse of equipment. the new method of calculating the levy will be introduced gradually, which is important because it will allow individual countries to adapt to the changes. i think it's a great success, as we've already talked about here, to have a free collection point for used equipment in large stores. this is undoubtedly one of the strengths of the new regulation. it seemed obvious and good that this rule was finally settled. the compromise negotiated by parliament and the polish presidency is balanced. the changes to be introduced will contribute to improving environmental protection and human health. the producers also benefit from them. reducing red tape will allow for big savings.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. in the last parliamentary term we succeeded in passing a resolution calling for action to be taken against the abuse of dominance by large retail chains over consumers, but above all over farmers. i was one of the authors of this declaration and i remember that when we held a press conference after it was adopted, some of the farmers' organizations that supported the collection of signatures for this declaration even asked that they not be mentioned publicly because they feared some repressive actions by these large trade networks. that shows the scale of the problem. both union and member state law provide legal instruments to effectively counter this and should be used. i would like to draw attention to the distortions of competition which result from the unequal rights of our farmers both in external competition: that is, unequal standards, higher requirements on our farmers than on importers, and finally in internal competition unequal subsidies. this is a very serious problem, which also disrupts the agricultural market in the european union.
the extremely difficult situation of agricultural producers threatens the survival of many farms. protecting the interests of farmers is therefore a priority. particular attention must be paid to small family farms and farms located in areas with poor management conditions, especially in mountainous or remote areas, which suffer particularly badly because of the higher costs of production, energy for transport and fieldwork. as we know, the situation is affected by rising prices of raw materials, energy, fertilisers and other means of production. but we must take into account that there are extremely strong monopolistic activities in the market for means of production, processors and also in trade. i therefore share the view that this issue should be addressed by european and national competition authorities and support initiatives to increase the transparency of prices of agricultural inputs and the european food price monitoring system developed by eurostat. we need a strong legal system to monitor, regulate, and control these kinds of practices. the agricultural market requires some intervention. self-regulation of the agricultural market is not fully possible given the specific nature of agricultural production, which depends on weather or biology . especially since the agricultural market has become more speculative, which we felt very clearly. we also need to develop local markets, marketplaces, other forms of commerce that shorten this chain between the food producer and the consumer. this will improve the quality of agricultural products, lower prices and increase benefits for both consumers and agricultural producers.
madam president! for many years i have been involved in debates on the plight of european union farmers. i regret to say that many of the promises made by the european commission in recent years, including in this chamber, have not been fulfilled. it has long been promised that farmers will have special contracts that guarantee them the continuity of production, but on the other hand also guarantee appropriate prices. on the other hand, the situation with suppliers is getting worse. the farmers are in a tragic situation. their specialisation, their drive for greater productivity, has meant that in recent years farmers have become dependent on suppliers who dictate prices and payment and delivery times. we have to change that. that word comes up so often. i would like to ask the european commission when exactly we can expect the appropriate regulations to be introduced in relation to contracts and, on the other hand, farmer/supplier relations.
in writing. rising costs of production and agricultural inputs with little increase in purchase prices lead to a reduction in farmers' incomes. the statistics clearly show that the prices of feed, seeds, fertilisers and plant protection products have increased. i would like to stress the importance of energy, which according to eurostat has increased in cost by about 60% over the last decade, including electricity, gas and fuel. building biogas plants, wind, solar or geothermal infrastructure is undoubtedly a big expense, but in the long term it is certainly cost-effective, increases revenue and has a positive impact on the protection of the environment. energy saving and energy efficiency practices must be disseminated and implemented on each farm, at local level, on an individual initiative or through cooperation between several neighbouring farmers. moreover, if farmers cooperate with each other to improve resource management and good management practices, they will increase their bargaining power and market stability, which translates directly into higher incomes. cooperation with research centres, reducing protein deficits, price monitoring systems and access to land are of course other challenges that the future cap will have to deal with.
mr. chairman, please! very often we fail to realise that space activities and space services and products are crucial to the economic growth and development of our societies. in my opinion, the biggest beneficiary of space technology will be the aerospace industry. the galileo and egnos programmes play a key role in the creation of the single european sky and in the further development of safe air traffic management over europe. i am also convinced that space technologies will contribute to improving road and maritime transport safety, particularly in the context of road traffic control, tolling systems, ecall and real-time object tracking systems. in conclusion, a brief note: in the seven meetings of the space council so far, only once has the issue of transport been raised. i would therefore like to appeal to its members to take a greater interest in this matter during... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! the problem of food waste is very important and it is good that the european parliament is dealing with it, especially in the context of dramatic food forecasts for the next decades and the great increase in food demand. the problem of waste is closely related to what we discussed a few minutes ago, the concentration of trade, with most of the food trade being taken over by the big retail chains. this obviously leads to increased food waste, for example, because more food is usually bought in supermarkets than in a small store near your home. this case is also of particular importance. and as we think about food waste, let's also think about land waste. the food crisis is also caused by more and more land being taken out of agricultural production. this is a very dangerous process.
in the explanatory statement to my vote, i would like to say that we have been discussing the treaty of lisbon for many years now. we've also been adopting it for a very long time in various referendums. but now, instead of implementing the treaty of lisbon through the decisions of certain governments, mainly france and germany, we are beginning to withdraw from many of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. so in a crisis, the union goes back a few kilometres and a few years. this is very bad, because instead of strengthening community policies, community institutions, instead of cooperating, we are slowly beginning to dismantle the polesbon regime. we must oppose this with all our might.
in writing. - it is a very important document and it is good that parliament has decided to conclude this agreement. it is also important from the point of view of strengthening relations with our important strategic partner georgia. this is important not only from a substantive point of view, but also because georgia is an important partner of the european union. this agreement is another bridge between georgia and the eu and the eu and georgia.
in writing. - we should not only agree to sign the agreement with georgia, but also support it. the role of the more developed countries in the union is to promote good practices among those countries that are just starting to develop their economies. georgia is a special case because of its turbulent history, including when it was part of the soviet union, and the ethnic conflicts that still occur on its territory. georgia is a country rich in tradition, especially culinary and wine. the richness of the crops, the food and the wine is unique. and as a fair trading partner, we should help georgia protect its unique products while promoting their high quality. particular attention should be paid to wines that have been produced on a mass scale during their years of presence in the gnp, which has reduced their quality. now it is necessary to support the rebuilding of the georgian wine brand so that this branch of the economy can develop better.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation because hundreds of pedestrians are killed every year in my country and thousands across the eu. and that's a big problem, because there are more and more fast cars coming in, and there are more and more inexperienced drivers. we must do everything possible to use all the technical means available to us to reduce the number of casualties.
in writing. − i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the position of the european union on the draft rules of procedure of the united nations economic commission for europe on pedestrian safety and the draft rules of procedure of the united nations economic commission for europe on led light sources. the regulation in question provides for the mandatory application of the unece regulations for the type-approval of rolling stock. this would mean that the type-approval of motor vehicles, their trailers and systems and technical parts would apply without the need for a subsequent additional type-approval. this would be a great facilitation for european manufacturers, national authorities and users, as it would avoid duplication of technical requirements and certification procedures. the same standards would be applied in many countries, radically reducing bureaucratic requirements.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it will ensure that, in the new agreement between the european union and indonesia, eu carriers are protected against the lack of non-discriminatory access to routes between the member states concerned and indonesia. it also provides for a number of provisions guaranteeing the prohibition of anti-competitive practices.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the cooperation agreement between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation because i believe that it will ensure closer cooperation, especially in the field of safety, which should be guaranteed to passengers to the highest degree. the agreement aims to set the world standard for aviation safety while ensuring harmonisation of standards.
in writing. - i support the recommendation on cooperation between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation. it is worth recalling that the organization has been in operation since 1944 and now has 190 member countries. the european union and its member states are committed to the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and to the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security. it is very important to harmonise safety standards and practices globally. the countries, areas, airports and carriers with insufficient security should be defined jointly. this is clearly in the interests of passengers, of the citizens of the eu countries.
in writing. - koleżanki i koledzy, opracowanie europejskich normów dotyczących zbierania i obobranyu zużytego sprzętu elektrotechnicznego i elektronicznego is istotne w odniesieniu do skutecznego, a przede wszystkim przyjaznego dla środowiska recyclingu. the european commission has published a report on the use of recycled electrical and electronic equipment in the european union, which is intended to be used for the recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment. i would like to note that the local authorities and recycling entities should play a leading role in the implementation of the directive, since they are closest to the public. the new rules are designed to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the management system for electrical and electronic equipment, and therefore the commission voted in favour of the provisions of the ep and council directive on the use of electrical and electronic equipment. thank you.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, today we voted on the report by mr klass on the marketing and use of biocidal products. this is a very important topic because it is linked to the new legislation that the european union is working on. only products that meet all safety standards will be allowed on the market. the rules introduce provisions limiting animal testing and banning the use of the most dangerous substances that threaten health and life, such as those that cause cancer and chronic diseases. in support of new solutions, and especially in the interest of public health, i voted for the text of the christa klass agreement. thank you.
in writing. − food waste is an example of an inefficient use of resources, with negative consequences for economic efficiency and the environment. moreover, in a world where about one sixth of the population is hungry, food waste is a huge ethical problem. the european union, which is part of the developed world, should therefore improve the efficiency of the food chain, so that food management is improved at every stage, from production to the consumer's table. as a union of states that respects and promotes fundamental human rights, including food security, we should take decisive steps to reduce food waste.
in writing. - the problem of food waste is becoming more serious. according to the european commission, the annual production of food waste in the 27 member states is over 89 million tonnes, or about 179 kg per person. the average european household throws away 20-30% of the food they buy, while 2/3 of it is still fit to eat. and if we don't take decisive action, by 2020, the total amount of food wasted will increase to about 126 million tons. food waste itself has consequences not only in ethical, economic, social and nutritional terms, but also in health and environmental terms, as food waste contributes to global warming. in agriculture, food waste occurs both in the production and storage of agricultural products. the food industry often wastes food at the raw material stage, then during transportation, when food is transported thousands of kilometres away. however, the problem is most acute in households. excessive purchases, expired products, and poor food management can all result in food ending up in the garbage. member states should therefore adopt common strategies to tackle this problem, starting with the exchange of good practice.
mr president, let me mention one added value which we should exploit while looking at the implementation of the fiscal pact. our economic policies are facing credibility tests by financial markets and we have to act in a spirit of unity and solidarity with the union and avoid unnecessary divisions. those who are macro-financially healthier should provide credibility to those who are macro-financially weaker. that leads me to two conclusions. first, we should share credibility via mutualisation of debt – being an added value added – in exchange for executable deficit and debt rigours. second, given that 12 of the 17 eurozone member states exceed the golden limit of a 60% debt/gdp ratio, while only one of the eight future members of the eurozone – non-eurozone today – exceeds that limit, one could say that those healthier non-eurozone countries provide credibility to the present members of the eurozone, and not the other way round. it would be another added value for the eurozone, and it would be in its interest, as a rule, to allow those countries to join eurozone summits.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate and the voices quoted in the european press clearly show that not all the expectations that were attached to monday's summit have been fulfilled. it's a fact. nevertheless, it was the culmination of wise and good compromise. as with any compromise, not everyone is happy with it, but we have nevertheless been given an instrument which allows us to bring about a recovery in the euro area economies by disciplining public finances more, but also, and most importantly, we have managed to avoid the creation of institutions and political decisions that would have led to the creation of two unions in europe. in particular, for this second effort, for this initiative, which was a support for the polish government's political and diplomatic offensive, i would like to thank our negotiators and mr president schulz for his clear voice in defence of european union cohesion, also during the summit. thank you so much!
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! on monday, after long and difficult negotiations, an agreement was reached on a budgetary pact, which was officially named the 'treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union'. and although, as is often the case in difficult negotiations, the agreement is not perfect and does not fully satisfy all parties, it has the support of the 25 members of the european union. this is clearly an expression of the conviction that europe does not need disputes, but rather quick and decisive action. one of the key elements of the negotiations was the issue of the participation of non-euro area countries in eurogroup summits. and although the negotiated provision places some restrictions on access to these meetings, it was thanks to the great determination of the non-euro countries that the eu's institutional set-up was safeguarded and the principle of community-ness was not breached. the representatives of the eu institutions, josé manuel barroso, martin schulz and herman van rompuy, also stood up to the challenge and defended the unity of the community. but reaching an agreement does not end the debate on the shape of the union and the place of non-euro countries in the new order. now we have a very important task to do, which is to put the provisions of the pact into practice. what will be particularly important for us is how article 12 of the treaty is implemented, that is, whether the voice of the non-euro area signatory countries is actually heard at the eurogroup summits.
in writing. from the perspective of improving economic governance in the eu, it is positive that the fiscal compact introduces qualitatively new instruments that will contribute to a more responsible fiscal policy in the future. the most important of these are the principle of budgetary balance, the obligation of the signatory states to implement this principle in their national legal systems and the enhancement of the jurisdiction of the court of justice of the eu. however, the effectiveness of the fiscal compact will only be verified in practice once its provisions become binding on the states. there is a risk that the introduction of statutory automatic corrective mechanisms could force excessive pro-cyclical economic policies, which would deepen the debt crisis. the frequency of non-euro area countries' participation in eurogroup meetings also remains a matter of uncertainty. the intergovernmental agreement stipulates that euro area countries will be able to hold meetings only within their own borders when discussing commitments relating to the single currency, the governance of the euro area and convergence within the area. since the scope of the eurogroup's closed meetings can be interpreted broadly, it will be very important to apply a literal interpretation in this case in order to safeguard the priority of the community method.
, in writing. on 30 january, the heads of state or government adopted the text of the treaty on stability and governance in the economic and monetary union, also known as the fiscal compact. the positive aspects of the original text include the commitment to implement the pact within the eu treaty structures within a maximum of five years, the consistency with eu law and the prevention of drastic divisions among the member states. we must remember that the treaty adopted is only one element in the fight to rebuild trust. it remains an instrument primarily designed to increase budgetary discipline, whereas the causes of the current euro area crisis are more complex. structural reforms are needed to restore confidence in financial institutions and improve ratings of credit rating agencies. just as urgent as the financial management of the member states is the change in the european labour market, which must be made more flexible in order to combat unemployment, especially among young people, more effectively. the financial supervision system should be completed. the sme sector should receive additional support, as it is the sector that has created 80% of jobs in europe over the last five years. although the european parliament has opposed any form of intergovernmental agreement, preferring eu secondary legislation, we cannot afford to criticise the fiscal pact sharply. by supporting this document, we will send a clear signal to the outside world that the eu is determined to address the causes of the current crisis.
in writing. to begin with, few people liked the idea of a fiscal compact from the start. moreover, the pact is not really needed by the european union. apart from the obligation on member states to put savings thresholds into their constitutions, there is nothing new in this agreement. it is worth noting, however, that these negotiations were about something far more important than the budgetary commitments of the member states - the future of the european union. we have been debating whether the community's unique method will be saved or whether decisions on eu economic policy will be taken solely through selfish negotiations between states, on the basis of the principles we have known since the 19th century congresses. we also asked ourselves whether new intergovernmental institutions would be created, directly competing with the eu institutions. finally, we had the real possibility that the union would be divided equally and more equally. so far, we've managed to avoid this dark scenario.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. my colleague andrikienė has already spoken about the situation in belarus. it is indeed worsening not only with the death sentences but also with the trials of human rights activists and allegations of torture against former presidential candidates. i know that you and the foreign ministers are aware of this, because on 23 january you decided to extend the legal basis for new sanctions against belarus. however, at the same time, despite the imposition of visa sanctions on the minister of internal affairs of belarus, he was able to travel to france, attend the interpol conference in lyon and return safely to minsk. on the other hand, despite the economic sanctions, the whole of 2011 was a year of increasing trade between the eu countries and belarus. how do you assess the effectiveness of the current sanctions and do you see the possibility of effective sanctions that will deter the belarusian regime from further repression?
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i refer to the situation in kazakhstan. i had the opportunity to organize a hearing with ms. kiil-nielsen with the participation of the kazakh opposition. one of its leaders, mr. vladimir kozlov, has been arrested, without the possibility of a fair trial, nor a lawyer. and then there's the tragedy of the people who were murdered. i spoke yesterday to the kazakh ambassador and the attorney general, as well as to the witnesses to this tragedy, and i would appeal for three things: first, to support the possibility of an international trial on this tragedy in zhanaozen, where people died. i know the attorney general of kazakhstan will ask for it, too. secondly, i would like to see diplomatic action to ensure that the families of the victims are given the opportunity to be helped. a lot of people need support. and third, to try to diplomatically influence that the opposition, if they are arrested, have the right to counsel, so that these basic rights are preserved. thank you so much!
mr president, i think we are now entering a new and extremely difficult phase in our relations with iran – or rather in our lack of relations with iran. the report by the international atomic energy agency confirms that iran has the knowledge and the desire to develop nuclear weapons. iran has repeatedly tried to keep hidden from the iaea the truth of its actions and to impede the work of the iaea inspectors – as it is doing now. internationally iran has threatened to take military action against our allies and to block the strait of hormuz. internally we see more and more repression of democratic movements, and that really concerns us. there is no hope that the march elections in the country will bring about any change in those policies. therefore the european union has no choice but to act, and it was right to impose sanctions. the current threats from iran make it clear that we can no longer support this undemocratic regime by buying their oil. right now we have to put pressure on iran to engage fully in negotiations. these negotiations cannot be just a talking shop or a sham to play for more time but must seek to halt and clarify the nuclear programme. baroness ashton, you should not accept anything other than straight talk and a real exchange of opinions. we can begin to talk about renewed imports of iranian resources only when iran applies the united nations resolution and the suggestions of the international atomic energy agency.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i have no doubt that the european parliament must have a say on iran and its nuclear programme. it is not we, but the international atomic energy agency, that has serious concerns about the possible military aspects of iran's nuclear programme. and as the evidence shows, iran is working on a nuclear explosive device. we did not force iran to become a party to the npt, and therefore it has renounced the acquisition of nuclear weapons and is legally obliged to report any nuclear activities it has. it is not us, but iran that continues to fail to meet its obligations under relevant un security council resolutions, including the most recent, 1929, and to comply with the requirements of the board of governors of the international atomic energy agency. it is not us, but the policies of the iranian government in certain areas that pose a threat to stability and peace in the region. i would like the high representative to recall in this nuclear atmosphere the other problems relating to iran, which she herself has mentioned: respect for human rights and the still precarious and dangerous situation at camp ashraf. the members of parliament also asked about this in the course of the questions. and we need to do everything we can to solve these problems together.
in writing. this is not the first time we've discussed iran's nuclear program. its rapid development and the threats it poses to the region and to israel are increasingly worrying. unfortunately, given the eu's capabilities today and iran's strategic location, it is not only possible for its military to cripple the supply of oil through the strait of hormuz, but also to destabilize central asia and north africa by conducting asymmetric operations using the networks of terrorist groups. such actions appear to be more dangerous than tehran's nuclear program itself. therefore, the pressure for more frequent inspections of iranian nuclear facilities should be continued. on the other hand, it is also important to support the iranian opposition. we don't have the exact details, but it seems that tehran's actions are some kind of inside game ahead of the upcoming elections, in which president ahmadinejad's position is in serious jeopardy. the threat of oil blackout also makes clear that the european union needs to devote more resources to supporting projects aimed at diversifying fuel supplies.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. your highness, madam president! we're trying to figure out what to talk about in the context of russia before the election. vladimir putin knows that we like the word corruption, that if there is a fight against corruption, it is something new. we are looking at this one article like children, as if we do not pay attention to what has been happening in russia recently and do not pay attention to the mistakes that we ourselves, often with good will, have made. what were the two mistakes that are worth remembering today? the first is the double standard. we used double standards, thinking we could somehow defuse the situation. today, these double standards can apply to energy, for example, because it is said that gazprom can obtain a partial waiver from the rules of the third energy package. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the president whether there is a chance of that and how do you assess gazprom's demands? they're very important. we should not be sending a signal today that we are ready for double standards, because then the whole third energy package is meaningless. the second thing is the myth of stabilization. today, with young russians in the streets, we know they will not take power, but we were wrong, in relation to so many countries, to talk about stability in the name of holy peace. today we must address these communities, the young people. and that's why it was a good sign that the agreement on a small border movement between the kaliningrad oblast and poland was signed. it's a good move. it's a path to visa relief. let's go in that direction, madam president. let us not forget these two lessons: no more double standards and the logic of stabilization. we must invest in development, youth and the future. this will have an effect on russia and the european union. that's the consequence i wish for you today.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. and i think that, when i think about what our policy is really about with russia, it's a mixture of a little naiveté, a little illusion and a little hope. and this is true both of russia's internal situation, what we call democracy, and russia's external relations, foreign policy. because of course russia has supposedly democratic institutions, elections, parliament, there are political parties that are supposedly competing with each other, but at the same time we must not forget that - and it is good that we talk about this quite often in this house - that russia is still a country where journalists disappear, where unfair sentences are given, where political opponents are persecuted. russia in foreign policy is also a country that on the one hand supports our actions, nato's actions, the united states, the european union in afghanistan, but on the other hand supports syria and behaves in a scandalous way in this case, even against what the arab states say. so the question remains, where is that hope? the only hope now is the russian people. in poland, we used to think that change would never come, but today we are in a completely different place.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to refer to the words of mr mcmillan-scott. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the political groups in this parliament share the same view of this elephant. with the exception of perhaps two votes of the gue representative and mr mölzer from the independent groups all the major political groups in this parliament speak with one voice. we have to support this process, which you mentioned, as this new social movement that is being born, because it is our duty. we must tackle the problems you mentioned, the problems with the registration of individual candidates and the violation of these rights. because we, as the european union and europeans or citizens of the european union countries, do not have the right to decide who the russians vote for, but on the other hand we, as europeans, have the duty to create such conditions for party competition, political competition in russia, so that everyone has equal opportunities, and i will cordially encourage you, commissioner, to do so.
the blue card issue. i have a great respect for the honorable colleague. i listened to it in the original language, but i cannot believe, perhaps i didn't understand the slovak, that the mep is really comparing the situation in russia with the situation in hungary. in russia, people are being killed, they are not allowing the registration of presidential candidates, they are not allowing the registration of political parties. did you really want to compare the two?
mr president, the baroness! i wonder what needs to happen in our relations for the high representative for foreign affairs to - besides such general words about support for values, democracy, democrats in russia and stating how important russia is to the world and the european union - present a thorough analysis of our relations and a proposal to solve many problems for the future. it is clear that the policy pursued for many years, the policy of european union engagement with russia, which was supposed to bring about the modernization and democratization of that country, has simply failed. the last parliamentary elections were rigged, and the next presidential elections will be contested by the same candidate for the third time something unthinkable in europe, although in accordance with the russian constitution. zero cooperation, on the contrary, support for regimes such as syria or belarus, corruption, zero competitiveness of the russian economy, where large state-owned companies dominate small and medium-sized enterprises. what more is needed to conclude that a new, more realistic policy towards russia is needed? there is one hope, and that's what i wanted to end my speech with. well, this is the hope of the russian democrats who have awakened, of the middle class that is emerging, and it is in them, not in our politics, that we should look for some positive solution in russia today. unfortunately, baroness, the union's policy towards russia has failed.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am glad that lady ashton decided to participate in this debate. it is an honour for us and especially important because the eeas has now been in action for a year and the time has come for the first reviews and summaries of the service’s existence. the report was adopted in the committee on foreign affairs in december last year by an overwhelming majority. by allocating such an important topic to the foreign affairs committee, the european parliament wanted to emphasise that in foreign policy terms brics is no longer just a catch phrase coined around trade and growth-related indicators, but that these countries have come of age and started a certain form of foreign policy making. the report goes beyond the individual country-by-country approach when thinking about brazil, russia, india, china and south africa, and tries to see in what senses their common points of interest have brought them together. one such common item is the feeling of marginalisation on the global level, especially when it comes to brics participation in the key institutions of global economic and financial governance. that is why the brics countries have decided to strengthen their cooperation on political and foreign policy issues. it could be called a mutual support network, but one that can be a convenient fall-back option when the situation requires concerted action. the report indicates several areas, in particular the number of votes held in the un security council, on libya, on syria, on the status of the eu in the un general assembly and others, like recently in durban on climate change, which show that when the foreign policy objectives of the brics converge they are ready to concert efforts and act jointly. in most cases the brics take positions opposed to those of the european union and they contest our positions and policy. are we ready to react and to act? those countries enjoy – some of them to a special degree, especially democracies like india and brazil – a privileged relationship with us. at the same time, they will not give the union the right to speak in the united nations. baroness ashton, in your report you praise the geographical desk structure of the eeas as the leading source of advice and briefing on respective countries. the report which i submitted encourages a coordination mechanism within the eeas which would allow geographical desk officers responsible for particular brics countries to exchange and coordinate information and positions in cases where concerted action on our side can be expected. such cooperation would have added value for you and your officials in devising future strategies. the mechanism i suggest does not require a modification of the current eeas structure and can be of a purely functional nature. i was told that the first time such coordination took place was in preparation for attending the foreign affairs committee meeting to discuss my report. i am glad to hear that, as it is the best proof that the report has already brought some results. now, it will be of the utmost importance that this coordination is maintained and developed further and does not become a one-time event in the history of your service. the brics as a cross-continental foreign policy actor does exist and the ostrich policy of hiding one’s head in the sand, believing that the brics will stop existing, will not serve the eu well.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament's report on the relations between the eu and the brics countries. i would like to congratulate the author of this project, because it really captures in a very good way what is the essence of the times in which we live. the world around us is changing rapidly, and one of the signs of this change is the rapid development, especially economic development, of countries that until recently were considered to be only so-called developing countries. the result of this rapid development is, of course, an increase in political importance. today, these are not just economic powers, but increasingly serious political actors, against whom, as mr saryusz-wolski points out in his draft report, the union must develop a coherent strategy of action. but i agree with those who say that these are diverse countries. these differences are clearly visible when we look at domestic political realities, for example, and especially the approach to civil liberties and human rights. these are the values that are important to us europeans, to european politicians: not just economic cooperation, but the care for values that are close to us and the promotion of these values in relations with countries whose importance in the world is increasing. i agree with the conclusions and proposals of the report, which say that we should develop a common strategy for dealing with these countries with our partners who share the same value system, such as the united states. finally, i would like to join in the call for the european parliament to have a greater say in the formulation of common positions and strategies and to participate in summits between the european union and its strategic partners, including those countries we now call brics.
rapporteur. − mr president, first let me thank lady ashton for the openness with which she has received the report, which calls for more action, as somebody has rightly said. i would also like to thank my colleagues, who understood the message and contributed to the richness of this report. i am happy because what has a name exists. it is named – the phenomenon has been named, so it does exist. so we should treat this report as an early notification – not a warning – about forthcoming challenges. i did not deny in this report that there are huge differences between them, but i tried to extract the tiny part which is common to them, even if it is only 1% of the picture and even if it is only restricted to issues on which they have similar positions and act as an entity and foreign policy in the making. you said, lady ashton, that we should avoid a ‘west versus the rest’ confrontation. this is also my dream, but the world is not as we would wish. my comment would be ‘yes, but...’. in some cases, we see that democracies there – india and brazil – were seduced by autocracies regarding their common positions, and regarding human rights and democracy (and i see the convergence with the watson report), libya, syria, the ivory coast and sudan. in some cases they were jointly challenging the current system of international governance. the question of the eu voice in the un was an appalling and most regrettable case. having strategic partners (as we call them with all due respect) means having reliable partners sharing values. very often they neither share nor practice our values. in the policy towards the brics we should avoid the creation of coalitions of the lowest common denominator on democracy and human rights. our policy should be inclusive, in order to involve them in the system of governance – but on the basis of universal values. they should be our partners and not our opponents, as has happened in the past. in the eu we should think strategically. in 2050 they will be immensely bigger than we are. let us be prepared. the eu has to act together under your leadership, lady ashton, to avoid member states’ divergent policies, for example on libya. regarding libya, brics were more united than the union itself. we need strong european foreign policy.
in writing. the eu's policy towards the brics countries is a particularly difficult one. on the one hand, these are countries that are experiencing rapid economic growth. on the other hand, it is worth remembering that more than 70 percent of the world's poorest people live in middle-income countries. there is no doubt that the brics countries differ from the eu countries not only in terms of economic indicators, but also in terms of values that we consider universal and indispensable. the eu and its member states' policy towards brics should also be supported by our citizens. to support something, you have to understand it. i'm afraid that many europeans don't understand why china is the recipient of relatively large amounts of development aid (oda) from europe. it's really hard to explain and rationalize. i believe that the focus of the eu's policy strategy towards brics should be to consistently build common standards that reduce differences in both competitiveness and value. we will not achieve this by unilaterally raising standards in the eu. i mean, for example, plans to reduce co2 emissions. anyone who knows anything about the brics countries knows that they are not going to limit their development in any way. changing this attitude is a major challenge for the eu.
i would like to thank very much mr santiago figas, who has been working for over a year on this important report - a report which could make a real difference to the new sport policy. the report that millions of sports fans, thousands of sports organizations have been waiting for. i just wanted to thank you for this great, great job, santiago. in fact, the shape of sport policy in the years ahead will depend on us, on parliament, but also on the commissioner, on how well these important principles, which have been set out in the report, are put into practice. i think that the preservation of these three elements: the social impact on sport, the economic element and the whole organization of sport is very appropriate. i wanted to focus on some very important elements that through european sports policy can eventually be fixed or improved. it's about the regulation of sports agents, the transparency of this system, the whole system that's designed to catch young talent. it's also a question of the minimum qualifications you wrote about, santiago, in this report, regarding this important and responsible profession of sports agent. this is the whole range of the fair play sports funding package, which is extremely important from the point of view of the training system and the hunting of young talent. this is a question of the whole sports pathology of match fixing, which we must address at community level, because this practice is often even mafia-like. this is a question of the enormous impact of sports tourism. i would like to say that we are faced, commissioner, with the question of directing the structural funds, and in particular the european social fund, to improve the sports base, but also to give all the players who are leaving their careers the chance to become, thanks to this fund, professionals who pass on their sports knowledge. finally, i would like to say that this report is excellent, because it comes in the year of the olympic games and the euro 2012 football championships, so i hope that it will be very well received by the member states.
in writing. as president of the polish rugby union and vice-president of the rugby intergroup in the european parliament, i would like to comment on the item on the social role of sport. i appreciate the fact that the rapporteur is calling on the commission to present the possibility of financing european union sports policy in the new multiannual financial framework. i also think it would be a good idea to create the possibility of financing from the esf the employment of instructors and coaches who provide additional sports activities in schools and youth centres. the social role of sport deserves to be highlighted. sport is of great importance for personal development, especially for children and young people, and is also an effective tool for social integration. it also plays a significant role in combating all forms of discrimination and social exclusion. that is why i think it is so important to promote sport and to support all kinds of sporting initiatives.
in writing. as a writer on women in sport, i consider the following issues to be particularly important for women in sport: education and sport. we need to guarantee equal access to sport for women and men, to affordable, age-appropriate sporting activities. in particular, among girls and women from economically and socially disadvantaged backgrounds. disciplines that are tailored to women's needs and aspirations should be provided and promoted. equal access to decision-making positions in sporting activities and to the administrative structures of sports associations, as well as to the positions of sports coaches, is also important. despite the increase in the participation of women in sport that has taken place in recent years, their participation in decision-making and management has not increased. as long as there are no women in leadership and decision-making positions and thus no female role models in sport, the demand for equal opportunities for women and girls will not be able to be fulfilled. in the field of education and sport, i propose to launch awareness campaigns targeting kindergartens and schools to stimulate interest in sport among children and young people. it is important to increase, diversify and complement the physical education curriculum with issues related to women's training, such as differences in pace and athletic performance.
in writing. i welcome today's vote on the report on the european dimension of sport. the fact that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, this area has become a competence of the european union represents a turning point in the development of sport on a european scale. it is of the utmost importance that the european commission should present a specific budget for sport policy in the future multiannual financial framework. it is also important to establish the basis for the training and education of coaches and their qualifications, to encourage women to become more involved in professional sport and to condemn breaches of the fair play principle. professional competition is often saturated with negative emotions that go far beyond the boundaries of competition. in the context of society as a whole, this situation is unacceptable given the impact of the behaviour of athletes, especially on young people. it is necessary to note the urgent need to rebuild the values that come from pure sporting competition, it is also important to combat doping through prevention and information campaigns and to treat the trade in such products as a drug trade. coordinated action aimed at a uniform approach to the imposition and enforcement of sanctions against fans behaving in an aggressive or discriminatory manner will contribute to raising the level of security in stadiums during sporting events. in conclusion, i would also like to express my support for the creation of a non-public european register of sports agents.
mr. chairman, please! well, on november 18th, i asked the european commission about acta. this is a very important issue, one that is stirring up a lot of emotion and controversy in the public debate in many countries of the european union, including my country, poland. i asked, among other things, whether acta is compatible with the fundamental rights, basic solutions and legal standards of the european union. on 5 january i received a reply from commissioner de gucht on behalf of the commission that the agreement was in accordance with the legislation in force in the european union and, moreover, that it was also in accordance with the general principles of european union law and, as i said, with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. but on november 24, 2011, the european court of justice ruled, to my surprise, that it was quite the opposite, that acta violated fundamental human rights and rights guaranteed by the european union in one respect. so this is a matter of urgency.
the year 2012 is exceptionally rich in various important events in the european union. the budget pact just agreed is due to be signed in march. other anti-crisis measures will also be continued. in addition, work on the union's multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 is entering a key stage. this year we are also celebrating the 50th anniversary of the common agricultural policy. it was one of the first policies to have a very large share of the union's budget, but its tasks under the treaties of rome were also very important: to ensure that there was enough food at the right price and to guarantee a fair income for farmers. europe experienced famine during and after the war, and the problem of food became a particularly important objective for the union. fifty years of experience in the common agricultural policy is exceptionally rich. this year they will be the subject of a series of conferences and a major information campaign, and the conclusions will be used to make a proper forecast of the cap for 2014-2020.
mr. chairman, please! the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, or acta, is entering the crucial legislative phase in our parliament. fighting counterfeits would seem like the right thing to do. i was one of the first victims of piracy on the internet when my documentary, the polish documentary "night shift", was posted on the internet and was illegally copied thousands of times in the second half of the 1990s. but i'm against acta because through its vague language, through the inequality of the parties, it comes with a huge risk of oppression on the internet. that's why thousands of polish youth took to the streets of 80 polish cities to protest against acta. in my country, eight special services officers of the abw went online to seize a small website that was critical of public authority. if a government that sends special services to stifle internet freedom gets something like acta, it will benefit beyond any doubt. that's why we need to defend freedom on the internet. let's reject the acta! long live the free internet!
illegal or unregulated landfills and incinerators are a serious problem. they pose a safety risk to both health and the environment. this also means that there are no savings from smart and efficient waste management and no opportunities to recover valuable missing resources. it's also jobs lost. much remains to be done to raise awareness among citizens about the benefits of responsible waste management. it is important to coordinate waste management at regional and local level more closely and to make it easy to access and transparent for citizens not only how waste should be segregated but also what happens to it afterwards. the modernisation of waste management systems will require significant investments in many countries. the financing of these activities should also be a priority for the union. in addition, it would be particularly useful to step up activities to identify and exchange best practices at national and european level.
in writing. recognising the urgent need for responsible waste management, the european union has created a whole system of secondary legislation, imposing on member states a series of obligations relating to the storage, segregation and recycling of waste. the union is working towards a situation where waste is no longer a threat to the environment but a resource that is used efficiently. i think that this effort is definitely worthy of praise and support. however, it must be admitted that even the most sincere intentions and the most determined action of the eu cannot be effective if the member states do not express a desire to cooperate effectively in this area. despite the december 2010 deadline for transposition of the directive into national law, only six countries have succeeded in doing so. as the european parliament, we should pay particular attention to the opinion of the citizens of the union. it is reflected in the number of petitions submitted to the commission - 114 - which draw attention to the various aspects of waste management that are not in line with eu law. this shows that it is in the interests of the citizens of the union that the member states transpose the directive into their national legal systems as soon as possible. in the interests of the european union as a whole and of its citizens, i call on the member states to bring their national legal systems into line with the directive.
in writing. rapid and dynamic economic growth is inevitably linked to environmental risks. the european union, and in particular the european parliament, must therefore set environmental standards that are in line with changing economic realities. a major step forward in this regard was the implementation by member states of the waste management directive, which aimed to improve and raise the standard of waste management, treatment and disposal. this was necessary because of the huge amount of more than 2 million tonnes of waste produced annually within the union. however, as is apparent from the numerous requests received by the committee on petitions and the visits carried out, which are fully described in mr inturgaiz angulo's report, we can undoubtedly conclude that the purpose of the directive has been achieved only in part. therefore, additional efforts by the community as a whole are necessary to eliminate cases of non-compliance or incorrect implementation of the provisions of that directive. at the same time, we must not forget that the ultimate outcome of these actions largely requires the cooperation and commitment of society and the accountability of those who violate our common good.
madam president! iran's nuclear program is a real danger not only to iran's neighbors, but to the entire world. iran is a country where no democratic standards are respected, a country where all the values that we believe in in the european union are persecuted or simply not there. it's a regime that's very oppressive to its own people. we all remember the recent events on the streets of tehran. in the hands of such people, nuclear weapons and the iranian nuclear program, which is certainly leading to the development of nuclear weapons, is a very dangerous thing. i think the european union did the right thing by imposing sanctions on iran. these sanctions are justified, and we're here for a good cause. i am very pleased that the european union has taken such action. i would also like to call again on this house to show solidarity with our greatest ally in the middle east, israel, a country which embodies the values we share, also in the context of this debate on the iranian nuclear programme.
madam president! i supported this report because of the great need for diversification of energy sources in europe. until recently, the panacea for any energy shortage was the construction of the northern gas pipeline from russia to germany. it was intended to ensure a stable supply of natural gas to the european union. just yesterday, russia's gazprom cut off gas supplies to several european union countries. the reason for this is, according to the company, the increase in gas demand in russia due to the frost. a few years ago, as a result of russia's political games, other countries were suffering from gas shortages. this shows how important it is to look for new sources of energy in the european union in the context of both the security of the european union and the safeguarding of all kinds of activities. it is obvious that self-sufficiency cannot be guaranteed in the european union, but all possible means must be used to ensure that security. thank you so much!
in writing. - mr president, the growing role of the brics countries in foreign relations and international cooperation has an impact on the european union. for example, with china projected to become the world's leading economy in the near future, brussels must step up its efforts to effectively influence the emerging multipolar world order. a consistent approach to these countries as a potential bloc and the expansion of cooperation and strategic partnership with each of them, especially the democratic ones, is becoming one of the objectives of the eu's foreign policy. such a partnership will be an excellent tool with a potentially transformative character. brics countries, increasingly in concert, also decide the policy direction of leading international organisations such as the un. taking into account the economic and demographic potential of these countries, only a coordinated european policy can contribute to enhancing the union's role and effectiveness on the world stage. i support the resolution.
in writing. - the crisis in europe is not a cause for optimism. the recession is not abating but deepening, unemployment is increasing and the lack of innovation and new investment in europe is not improving either. instead of being the role model that it has been, europe is falling into a slump, unlike the brics countries, whose fast-moving economies are not feeling much of the global recession, and the economic forecasts are for it to accelerate further. they also strengthen their political standing by adopting common, often controversial, positions on conflicts and problems in the world. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that the union should cooperate closely with these countries, but not at any cost. we must remember their undeniable potential, without underestimating the value and potential of our own economy. this is a difficult challenge because, given the unequal conditions of competition, whether in terms of cheap labour at the expense of human rights, lower production standards or simply better natural conditions and access to natural resources, europe faces a difficult task. but we cannot give in to the pressure of economic rights alone and forget the fundamental european values.
in writing. - the high rate of economic growth in the brics countries and other emerging world powers is changing the balance of power in the world before our eyes. as the rapporteur points out, the combined importance of the seven largest emerging economies (brazil, russia, india, china, indonesia, turkey, mexico) is projected to exceed that of the g7 economies by 2050. these rising economic powers have already shown high ambitions in foreign policy and are likely to gradually take the lead in shaping world order and global strategies. this shows the importance of increasing internal eu cohesion and strengthening our common foreign policy. only by acting as one strong organism will we be able to match the rising economic and political powers and remain relevant in the new, multipolar system of world order and leadership. the emerging new balance of power in the world gives the union the opportunity to take the initiative and lead in the process of changing and reforming the system of world order, including the new powers. we have a chance to build a new platform for international foreign policy, based on mutual trust and shared values, that will facilitate cooperation on trade and economic issues, and in more effective ways to address global issues such as climate change, global peace and security, and sustainable development.
in writing. - mr president, promoting democracy and countering authoritarian and totalitarian regimes around the world is an important task for which we all have a responsibility. in this context, financial transactions and investments by non-democratic leaders in the eu member states are of particular importance. often benefiting from all the benefits of western civilization. given that these leaders are using their wealth, which is often illicit, to consolidate their power and oppress their own citizens, i support the recommendations contained in the resolution. increasing the range of restrictive measures by preventing sanctioned leaders from trading in money in member states, from travelling, from taking lessons and subsidising research centres, or from conducting business activities, are just some of the instruments we can use. i look forward to increased cooperation and synergy between all eu countries to present a coherent position on the condemnation of authoritarian regimes based on a unified and integrated approach.
in writing. − democracy, the rule of law, freedom and human rights are among the fundamental values of the european union. therefore, respecting and promoting them both within and outside the union should be one of our fundamental responsibilities. but it is not an easy task, especially when dealing with countries where these values, which are so precious to us, are marginalized or violated. the european union cannot stand by and watch these fundamental rights being violated by authoritarian regimes. the creation of a strong common foreign policy, with a sound political judgment, capable of skillful negotiation and, if necessary, of coercive measures without the use of force, is therefore necessary. the european union cannot remain indifferent when there is a brutal violation of human rights, when human lives are threatened, when peace is threatened. in order to be a good guardian of our values and at the same time an active defender of the rights of the oppressed peoples or national minorities, it is necessary in some cases to use restrictive measures. however, these measures will only be effective within the framework of a coherent european union policy, in which all member states participate consistently.
in writing. − the eu is the leading donor of humanitarian assistance. of the total eur 9.8 billion of humanitarian aid provided worldwide in 2010, 41% was delivered by the eu (accumulated by funds from the 27 member states in addition to the commission through dg echo). these funds allow the eu to show solidarity and provide immediate relief to regions hurt by natural and man-made disasters. the eu’s growing involvement and importance as a humanitarian aid provider is on the rise, and so are the requirements to ensure proper use of taxpayers’ money; thus i welcome the current report which reviews the budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid management by dg echo. identifying areas of weakness in control over the funds and proposing points where improvements could be made is important for enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of humanitarian aid money. however, i also believe that the evaluation process should take account of the fact most recipient countries do not have the proper means to provide a full account of how money was spent, especially in a time of emergency. therefore we must also show flexibility and adjust our budgetary control requirements to existing capacities of the recipient countries, in order to ensure our money is properly spent.
in writing. - i am pleased that the european parliament has taken the initiative to introduce legislation in the member states to enable and facilitate the collection of consumer claims. the commission's research and surveys show that one in five consumers in europe would not take a claim under €1000 to court, and almost half say they would not take a claim under €200 to court. the obstacles faced by consumers are mainly high costs, the risk of litigation and long and complex procedures for claim settlement. in the event of a class action, 79% of respondents said they would be prepared to defend their rights in court. we should take steps to empower european consumers as the weaker party to the infringer. in poland, a collective redress mechanism already exists, the solutions to which could be useful in the work on a future european instrument. this is a relatively new instrument introduced by the law of 17 december 2009, so it still needs to be thoroughly checked in practice, but it is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. a common eu-wide collective redress mechanism is necessary to facilitate and enable citizens as well as businesses to exercise and enforce their rights. i congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur, on his initiative and look forward to the commission's proposals.
in writing. − the outcomes of the eu summit of 30 january, 2012 were received with mixed reactions by colleagues. from my perspective, i welcome the announcement on the new fiscal treaty and hope it will be implemented without further delays. the council’s decision to focus on growth as a complementary means to austerity is essential, since strict budgetary rules alone cannot solve the deepening of the crisis. supporting smes, entrepreneurship and self-employment initiatives are the only way to encourage economic expansion, job creation and improving the eu’s long-term competiveness. on the other hand i deplore the fact only 25 members rather than the whole eu decided to join the treaty. because the agreed treaty does not really guarantee fiscal stability, coordinated action between all 27 eu members is needed to restore investment and growth to europe. another point of contrast to eu shared solidarity is the exclusion of the european parliament from participating in future meetings on eu governance. as a directly elected body, the european parliament must be involved on a basis of equality with other eu institutions. trying to address remaining challenges – the question of greece for example – what we really need is leadership, flexibility and above all unity.
in writing. − the outcome of the informal european council was discussed in the political group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats. the result was critically evaluated. we still believe that the pact does not strengthen the community method but replaces it with an intergovernmental method. we are critical of the underestimation of the role and importance of non-euro area countries. one wonders why, for example, poland, which is experiencing economic growth, workers are making a lot of sacrifices, unemployment is still a problem (i.e. the nation does not live above the state), is to be treated worse than others who are in trouble, but are preferred just because they belong to the eurozone. the european parliament's role in this new pact is of particular concern. i voted in favour of the resolution by the four political groups because it reflects my own views.
in writing. - the resolution highlights, on the one hand, what has been achieved in the negotiations, minimising the harmful provisions - also for the ep - that appeared in the first proposals. on the other hand, it still contains a long list of our demands which the member states have not taken into account or have only partially done so, including the full participation of the countries with a temporary derogation in the euro summits. the terms of the pact are the result of a far-reaching compromise, much of which will depend on its implementation. the ep's task is to monitor this process and ensure that the community's interest is preserved.
in writing. - mr president, i have been following the development of iran's nuclear programme with great concern in recent years. given the country's declining willingness to cooperate in international security matters, our direct involvement and commitment to solving this problem is essential. an additional threat is the possible destabilisation of the middle east region, especially in light of tehran's strained relations with israel. in supporting the resolution, i join the call on the iranian regime to cease work on the development of nuclear weapons capabilities and to comply with security council resolutions and international non-proliferation agreements. i'm appealing to the authorities in tehran to return to the negotiating table. only full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and the presentation of irrefutable evidence of the peaceful nature of the activities carried out can prevent a regional arms race and remove the threat to world peace and security.
in writing. − i would like to express my deep concern on the situation in iran and its nuclear power. that is why i had to vote against amendments 3 and 4, which exclude every serious threat against the country that openly refuses to cooperate with the international authorities. sanctions adopted by the council are necessary as a way to convince the iranian authorities to stop developing enrichment technology but the diplomatic solution to the iranian issue may not be sufficient and – as precisely said in the report – has not achieved its stated goals. i am deeply convinced that there is no better way to solve the conflicts than a peaceful way. but the european message should be clear and strong – the eventuality of military intervention will appear if iran openly poses a threat to world peace, if iran continues to develop its nuclear programme without providing all the information to the international community, with disregard of un resolutions and without readiness to start a real international dialogue.
in writing. - colleagues, physical activity is an essential part of a healthy and healthy lifestyle, and sport is an important public health instrument, and i would even say an important factor in reducing public expenditure on health. regular exercise can prevent and protect young and old from health problems, including obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and even cancer. promoting physical culture and sport also contributes to good mental health and well-being. i believe that we in the european union should develop clear, transparent guidelines for the inclusion of sport and physical activity at all levels of education, which is why i supported, among other things, the report by santiago fisas ayxel on the european dimension of sport.
in writing. − the increasing amount of waste is a result of modern lifestyles and affects us all from large industrial plants to individual households. waste is hazardous to human and animal health and to the ecosystem of our planet. this is an equally important problem for rural areas, where many types of waste are generated, and other types of waste, such as electrical waste and, particularly dangerous, asbestos, are sometimes placed alongside municipal, biodegradable waste. in these areas, appropriate systems for the regular collection of such waste are necessary and should be accompanied by practical information campaigns. the report shows that the level of waste management policies varies considerably between member states. in countries such as austria and denmark, waste management is very high, while in others, mainly in the new member states, there is still a lack of appropriate legal regulations and administrative procedures. the implementation of a uniform waste management policy is therefore necessary.
in writing. - colleagues, the daphne programme, which aims to protect and combat violence against women, children and young people, is extremely important and needed in the european union. statistics show that between one quarter and one fifth of all women in europe have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives, and one in ten european women has experienced sexual violence involving force. the political and legislative differences between the member states undoubtedly mean that women's rights are not equally protected in the european union. i think we should create an international network of cooperation between projects throughout the european community, which should aim to combat violence. that is why i voted for the report by regina bastos on the daphne programme.
in writing. - i fully supported the report on the daphne programme. violence against women is one of the biggest and most serious forms of discrimination, and the daphne programme is about raising awareness of and combating violence against women. it allows women's organisations to carry out projects and take action in this area. the projects funded under the programme (around 500) have made a significant contribution to raising public awareness of violence, initiating national debates and social campaigns on the subject and contributing to national legislative initiatives to combat violence. for example, national centres for research on violence against women have been set up in belgium and ireland. the daphne programme has helped to raise awareness of the important issues of violence and to launch a debate on how to combat it. given that new forms of violence have recently emerged with the growing popularity of online social networks, the daphne programme should be strengthened financially. it is also important to extend the programme's beneficiaries to small women's non-profit organisations that operate at the local level, that is, closest to the women most affected.
in writing. − as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i supported the report on the situation of women during the war. among the many valuable comments and recommendations contained in this report, two are particularly relevant. first, because of women's mediation skills, they should be included in international peace negotiation teams, in leadership roles, and in leadership and training roles. secondly, in wartime women are particularly vulnerable to all forms of physical violence, especially sexual violence. in this context, increased cooperation and support to national and local women's organisations is necessary. these organisations are best placed to identify the degree of risk to women and can provide early warning and preventive action. it is crucial that perpetrators of violence against women are held accountable for their actions. the perpetrators cannot be left with a sense of impunity, and the victims with the conviction that they are alone in their tragedy and that no one is really helping them. the resolution calls for the elimination of impunity to be one of the main themes of the peace negotiations. i also advocate the creation of a women's counselling centre to address sexual and psychological violence in conflict zones.
in writing. - i voted for the report of neuser. access to energy can indeed have a great impact on development. without universal access to energy, genuine, sustainable and socially inclusive development will be impossible. and that is provided that it is accessible not only in a technical sense but also in an economic sense. it is also very important that energy projects in developing countries are built on business models. without ensuring the sustainability of projects, they will not achieve their objectives. another important aspect is to focus on modern projects that use renewable energy sources, are tailored to local needs and create local growth potential.
in writing. − today we adopted an important report on the annual report on eu competition policy. it is already 40 reports, because this policy is one of the basic ones in the union and is very important for the functioning of the single european market, which, as i said during the debate, is the basis for economic success in the union. i am glad that the commission, and in particular mr barroso's commission, is very active in regulating the conditions of competition in financial markets. the activities of the newly established monitoring and supervisory agencies will probably contribute to the discipline of financial markets. the european commission's actions in the area of the telecommunications market have also produced positive results. but we must be aware of the need for new regulations in the services market, as well as in the energy and food markets.
mr. chairman, please! the office for harmonisation in the internal market in alicante has been the official body for community trade mark proceedings since 1996 and for registered community designs since 2003. full and well-functioning harmonisation has been achieved in this respect in all member states. the success of the office is measured, for example, by the fact that last year alone over 98 000 trade marks and almost 82 000 designs were registered, which shows the growing importance of protection at community level. this growing trust in the office makes it seem justified to extend its range of activities, of course in accordance with eu law, in particular the charter of fundamental rights guaranteeing respect for all civil liberties and the proper protection of personal data. recently, the loud demonstrations against acta have shown that the super secret negotiations are not accepted by the citizens. i hope that the new observatory in alicante will operate in a transparent way and for the benefit of ordinary citizens, and not under the pressure of lobbyists from big corporations. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very well-done job.
i am inclined to agree with those who say that the trade register directive is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. if this directive enters into force, it will make it much easier for businesses and citizens to communicate with each other and to obtain up-to-date and transparent information much more quickly. the directive leaves the legal issues of commercial registers to the individual states. the directive focuses on technical aspects. however, i would like to point out that this technical area will undoubtedly require further work, especially in international contacts. so we have a lot of work to do.
in writing. i welcome the eu's willingness to address the trade register problem. the cross-border activities of many operators operating on european markets and the wide variation both in the legal and administrative nature of the business registers often constitute obstacles to the activities of operators in the eu. we must not forget that we have already committed ourselves to simplifying administrative procedures in the member states in the course of business in the framework of the charter for small and medium-sized enterprises. so we have to be consistent in our actions. i therefore believe that a number of actions taken to systematise and integrate commercial registers should be established in close cooperation between the european commission and the member states. our aim should therefore be to improve the system of free access to essential information for citizens. i always try to emphasise, whenever possible, that it is smes that are the ones who are able to function efficiently, without the additional burden of complicated administrative procedures, that are our great chance for the eu to emerge from the current crisis in a smooth way.
in writing. the report by mr kurt lechner is a step forward in the area of transparency and access to information on company activities in the european union. i have no doubt that the future unified register will be a useful tool for the european entrepreneur, who will be able to check basic information about his future partner in one system, even if he is based on the other side of europe. but there was a moment when it seemed that for reasons more or less technical, it would not be possible to complete the project in a reasonable time. i would therefore like to highlight the tremendous contribution of work and effort on the part of our rapporteur, mr lechner, and the polish presidency. both parties have made every effort to establish a legal framework for the future operation of the combined company register on terms that can be accepted by all. i think that the compromise worked out satisfies not only the rapporteur but also all the shadow rapporteurs. issues of importance to parliament such as the protection of personal data and delegated acts were maintained during the negotiations. the last three months have shown that good cooperation between parliament and the council can result in quick and effective decisions that help to facilitate the development of business activities in the european single market.
madam president! i have a question for you, commissioner. i think it is a simple matter for countries whose currency is already the euro. but we also have countries in the union that want to join the eurozone. and then there are countries that are very consistent in saying that they're going to keep their national currency. so my question, commissioner, is this: are we sure that these regulations, which are to cover the whole of the union in 2016 - which is to happen on 30 october this year - will also cover the uk? we know very well that the uk banking system plays a very important role in europe.
author. − madam president, let me start by saying once again that there is no doubt that europe needs growth. the last summit finally admitted what many of us in this house have been repeating stubbornly for years, namely that any further budget consolidation, including austerity packages, must be growth-friendly. the current forecasts are not good. if stagnation continues it will eventually lead to a deep erosion of europe’s productive capital, human capital in particular and young human capital even more so. so we are all for efforts exerted at all levels of european governance to get the most out of eu budget-supported policies. in this context, we were surprised to hear from the president of the commission that there are eur 82 billion of what were called ‘unspent structural funds’: eur 22 billion from the european social fund – which corresponds to roughly 30% of the 2007-2013 allocation – and eur 60 billion of the erdf and cohesion fund, which means more or less 22% of the current programming period’s allocation. we discovered, however, that this is not really unspent money but rather money that has not yet been spent. looking more carefully into this announcement, we understand that these funds have not yet been allocated to concrete projects but that they are already committed to priorities and programmes. we also understand that allocation to projects, largely through tenders, is a process lasting until the end of the multiannual financial framework. it could therefore be expected that most member states would keep part of the allocation for 2012 and 2013. we also understand that the remaining 70% of esf funding and 78% of the cohesion and regional funds have either already been paid or that the relevant tenders have been completed, which means that legal commitments have been made or that projects are ongoing. our question most likely comes too early to request a fully-fledged assessment from the commission of the scope for the potential need for reprogramming. we understand that since 2007 growth and jobs have been priorities of cohesion policy and its overarching mission. nevertheless, we fully share the view that the potential of cohesion policy to generate growth and jobs must be fully exploited. what is worrying, however, is that the way in which this proposal – for the potential reprogramming of the funds scheduled for allocation by individual member states to projects in the last two years of the current financial perspective – has been presented to public opinion has created false interpretations, unnecessarily undermining the image of the policy and of its real impact on growth and job creation. throughout the crisis parliament has supported all commission proposals aimed at strengthening the cohesion policy’s response to the crisis. in record time we adopted the amendments to the general regulation to increase co-financing rates. we are working very closely with the commission and the council to create a risk-sharing facility to facilitate use of funds in countries in distress. let me conclude by saying that we are all aware that there are problems concerning the take-up of funds in some countries. we appreciate the commission’s efforts to help countries like bulgaria, romania, greece and italy in overcoming the austerity trap through the wise and efficient investment of structural funds.
madam president! the economic situation and the high rate of youth unemployment require decisive action, and i am glad that the european commission and president barroso are recognising this problem and proposing to reprogram the structural funds to help small and medium-sized enterprises and combat youth unemployment. but the question is whether we can do it efficiently, quickly and effectively and whether the €82 billion the president is talking about is actually available. i think the key question is whether the member states will want to reprogram the structural funds. today, on average, more than 20% of young people in the european union are unemployed, and i would therefore like to stress that it is very important not only to use the resources available but above all to use them effectively in the fight against unemployment. it is important that eu funds for upskilling actually finance high-quality training that equips young people with the skills needed in the labour market. small and medium-sized enterprises play or should play a significant role in creating new jobs. statistics show that only 3% of them are innovation leaders. many entities do not apply for eu funds because the application process is long and the procedures are complex and not entirely transparent. i think everyone agrees that the smooth functioning and development of small and medium-sized enterprises is a very important factor in gdp growth, the fight against unemployment and economic stability. i also think, commissioner, that thousands of citizens of the european union are waiting for this debate today, and i would therefore like to ask you how specific support for small and mediumsized enterprises and the fight against youth unemployment should be, so that it is effective, because today we are fighting unemployment, and it is still rising.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i'm speaking up again because, quite frankly, i'm very nervous about the situation in the training market. we spend millions of euros on ineffective training. statistically, it looks good because some of the funds are being used. the companies that provide training are happy that the employees they employ are not losing their jobs because there is no shortage of unemployed people participating in the training. often, unemployed people are encouraged to take part in training by financial incentives. they do not return to the labour market because the training does not equip the unemployed with the relevant skills needed in the labour market. i have a question to ask you, commissioner: if there are any such studies, what is the cost of returning one unemployed person to the labour market and what is the ratio of the european funds involved to the number of jobs created?
madam president! today we have been talking about russia, about ukraine, and i would like to talk about belarus. sergei kavalenka has been on hunger strike for 56 days. his only fault was that he hung the belarusian flag in the traditional colors on the christmas tree, on the christmas tree. i have addressed this matter to the president, mr martin schulz, and to other european services. i have assurances that the decision on the european parliament's strong defense of sergei kavalenko will be made tomorrow. i hope that happens, because we cannot allow the last traditional dictatorship to exist in the heart of europe, which imprisons its citizens, which takes its citizens hostage. i think that the vote of president schulz, but also that of the whole european parliament, should be unequivocal on this issue.
madam president! as a new member of the european parliament, i would like to thank all those who have supported me on my way to the european parliament. first of all, i want to thank the voters for their confidence in me. as a resident of lublin, which is adjacent to ukraine and belarus, the eastern partnership will play a significant role in my activities. as a local government official, i would like to focus on regional development, environmental protection and energy policy. i believe that a substantive debate on shale gas with the scientific community and civil society is urgent. given the nature of the land in zamość and lublin, i am also familiar with the agricultural policy. i would like to emphasise my openness to cooperation in order to implement projects with a european dimension, taking into account local needs.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the common fisheries policy has a huge impact on the environmental fishing community as a public good. the tradition, culture and continuity of the fishing profession have been part of european history since time immemorial. fishing is one of the oldest economic activities in human history and is of non-business importance. the implementation of the common fisheries policy to date has been a devastating failure, not only in terms of the environment, where the state of stocks is not at the right level, but also in terms of the protection of the industry and the fishing environment, which are in a very difficult situation. small-scale fishing should be given special attention as a cultural and social asset, but also as a source of income for small, family-run businesses that provide many jobs. in some parts of europe, this is the only way to earn a living and support a family. i feel that the future of small-scale fishing is uncertain and raises many doubts, for example in the context of the sale of individual fishing quotas. another very important element is competition, which, in the face of small-scale fisheries and large-scale processing plants, and unbridled market liberalisation, paints a bleak picture of the future. but what is most important is the continuation of the tradition, the inheritance of the knowledge, skills and spirit of the fishermen's profession. commissioner, what action do you intend to take to promote the fishing profession and what strategy do you intend to adopt to encourage the younger generations to take up this profession?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: there is one such place in europe, in the european union territory of cyprus a barbed wire city of thousands of abandoned houses, churches, schools, kindergartens, playgrounds and playgrounds whose inhabitants dream of the day when they can return to the places of their childhood. the support of international institutions, including the european parliament in particular, is so important and necessary to make these dreams a reality. for this help, on behalf of myself, my colleagues and fellow signatories of written statement 0042, and especially on behalf of the people of famagusta, their children and grandchildren, i would like to thank you all very much. i believe that this communication will motivate the european commission, the member states, the un and in particular the turkish government to work more closely together and to take further action on this issue.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? we are finalising a long-term work on a very important directive which will make it possible to use easier vaccines against the very dangerous bluetongue disease which is threatening livestock in many european countries. better vaccines, easier for farmers i suggest that we accept this report without any doubt, because it is very much needed by cattle farmers all over europe. the work was long for reasons beyond the control of parliament, because we had already voted on this report once. we are now finalizing this work, and i thank you very much for your attention and i ask for your support for this report.
in writing. i believe that in the era of globalised information, and particularly of digitisation in the broad sense, the protection of the rights of individuals and of works produced by them in relation to so-called piracy deserves particular attention. increasing creativity and innovation, as well as technological innovation, should be given special protection from the perspective of intellectual property rights, which are the result of the creative work of both ordinary people, entrepreneurs and, in many cases, consumers in a broad sense. the unrestricted and universal access to the internet has led to an increase in counterfeiting, illegal use and trade in intellectual property, thus harming many economic sectors in the european union. the measures taken are right and it is essential to create a dedicated online platform for citizens, businesses and public administrations to provide the necessary data for the proper management of information. nevertheless, i think we should beware of the dangerous phenomenon of undoubtedly over-interventionism. we must realize that it is irrational to legislate in almost every area of activity. it can also stifle and thus severely restrict creativity in the area of intellectual property, which is generated and protected by law.
in writing. - the problem of counterfeiting and piracy is becoming more serious, and the costs to the european economy are difficult to estimate. but we are certainly talking about billions of euros. the effects of the spread of counterfeiting and piracy include: reduced investment in innovation and thus loss of jobs, risk to the health and safety of consumers in europe, loss of tax revenues for member states' budgets, growth of organised crime. the long-term impact for the eu as a whole is the threat to the achievement of one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, which is the so-called smart development and on which the implementation of an effective intellectual property protection policy certainly has a major impact. the office for harmonisation in the internal market, established in 1995 to keep the register of community trade marks and community designs, should be given new powers in the field of intellectual property rights. this is due to the nature of its tasks and the specific features of the common market. by managing the database of protected marks and designs, the office will be able to deal effectively with counterfeiting and piracy. the level of innovation in the european economy compared to the us or japan is still unsatisfactory. an effective strategy to combat ipr infringements should be our priority in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - there were a few things unusual about the work of the legal affairs committee on the report of mep masipo hidalgo, which we are discussing today. first, we have an eu agency that is not only earning its own money, but also waiting to be given new responsibilities, claiming to have sufficient financial and human resources to cope with the new tasks. secondly, it is about the inclusion of an observatory in the uhrw to monitor cases of infringement of intellectual property rights, which will give us more accurate data and clues as to where the problem of intellectual property protection in europe really lies. thirdly, the work on this report was finalised almost at the end of last year and, despite the pre-christmas atmosphere, mr hidalgo and the polish presidency managed to bring it to a mutually acceptable shape in a relatively short time. this required perseverance on both sides and extraordinary negotiating skills. in the current heated debate on the protection of intellectual property rights and the fight against all infringements of these rights, including in the online space, we need to equip ourselves with the knowledge and tools to deal effectively with this problem. i hope that the inclusion of the observatory in the uhrw structure will meet our expectations and allow us to collect and analyse data in a reliable and objective way, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that, especially in these times of crisis, there is a need to save costs and time, and this is what the integration of registers offers. it is therefore necessary to make careful technical changes to the existing national registers in order to allow quick access to information for both citizens and businesses throughout the european union.
in writing. with the introduction of the euro, we can pay in this single currency throughout the union. however, it is time to go further and make it possible for consumers and businesses, wherever they are, to make non-cash payments from a single account and under the same basic rules. however, this requires greater integration of the internal market. i see how powerful the internal market is in fighting the crisis, and that is why we should continue to work to ensure that it functions smoothly. one of the actions to this end is the standardisation of the euro payments area. i think that the unification of the rules for domestic and foreign transfers, in other words the creation of an internal framework for payment services in euro, will be very beneficial for the economy. this will make it no different whether we are making a domestic or cross-border payment, and thus lower the charges for businesses and consumers. i think that a common area of payments like this will make the internal market more competitive and foster innovation. i also believe that it will contribute to improving the quality of services and payment instruments and increase their efficiency. i therefore agree with the provisions of the regulation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the programme for the distribution of food to the most deprived in the european union has a long history. it began in 1987 when the council decided to make agricultural products from intervention stocks available to the member states for food aid to the poorest. in subsequent years, when food stocks from intervention were low, it was allowed to buy food for this purpose on the market. the evolution of the agricultural policy has contributed to the reduction of intervention stocks and thus to the need to increase food purchases on the market for this programme. this form of food procurement was challenged before the court of justice, which in april 2011 found that it was contrary to the legal basis and that the scheme should be limited to food from intervention stocks only, which meant that from 1 january 2012 the scheme was reduced from eur 500 million per year to just over eur 100 million. the european parliament then took decisive action and, in its resolution of 7 july 2011, called on the commission and the council to work urgently on solutions for 2012-13 in order not to limit the programme so drastically. it should be noted that the original commission proposal of september 2008 and the parliament's position of march 2009 were not adopted by the council. the commission's further approach of having the programme have a legal basis not only in the cap but also in social policy also did not get enough support in the council. only the active actions of the polish presidency led to the elimination of the blocking minority and the work gained momentum. a trilogue took place on 6 december 2011 in which parliament and the commission agreed to the council's position. the committee on agriculture and rural development subsequently accepted the results of the trialogue on 12 december 2011 at its meeting in strasbourg, and in a special meeting. the special committee on agriculture of the council gave its consent on the same day. this compromise was finally confirmed by the council at its meeting on 23 january 2012. on 26 february, the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development expressed its full support for the compromise adopted by the council and accepted the proposal to refer the council's position to the procedure for adoption by the european parliament's plenary. it should be noted that this position concerns the implementation of the 2012-2013 programme. the amount of eur 500 million per year is maintained, which is a very substantial amount. the programme was left to be implemented on the basis of a legal basis under the common agricultural policy. the european parliament's demands to use european products in the first place for the programme were upheld. the full community financing has been agreed. food distribution institutions are required to provide full information on the origin of the eu support. today's debate follows yesterday's debate on the plight of the homeless, many of whom also need free food. it's winter time. the crisis in our countries is felt most strongly by the poorest, who are the main beneficiaries of food aid under the programme. in total, almost 18 million europeans use the internet. these are the people who have the hardest to live with, the homeless, the unemployed, the elderly or the disabled, but also the large families and single parents. in europe, which has expanded so much, the number of poor and needy has increased dramatically. it is estimated that some 40 million people in europe are currently living in poverty, and another 40 million are at risk of poverty. this program has been very welcomed by charities, ngos that distribute food, but most importantly, it's about helping the poor, the people in need. it is good that the european union is remembering them. therefore, every effort should be made to prepare the appropriate legal basis for the implementation of this programme for the period 2014-2020.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate mr. axel on a good report. we need food aid. on the one hand, we have a large area of poverty in the european union, and this is particularly evident in this severe winter -- 600 people froze to death in the european union member states. on the other hand, we may not have a surplus of food, but we still have a problem with farmers having too much. so this program should work. in my country, poland, it works quite well and it would not be possible to stop it suddenly. it is therefore justified to continue it until 2013, although i share the view of my political group my colleague james nicholson and others that this programme should be financed under social policy rather than agricultural policy, because agricultural policy has other objectives. first of all, we must protect food production and ensure food security for europe, and this is what the common agricultural policy should be about, but this programme must be maintained during this transitional period.
mr. chairman, please! the increasing number of people in need of food aid is one consequence of the increasing social stratification. wealth and income inequality are natural in a democracy. but the social contrasts, the stark disparities, they're gone. i think the discussion should not be about whether we should continue this program, but how it should be implemented in practice. this scheme is not a substitute for, and does not replace, the role and significance of national aid. it is complementary, it is an expression of solidarity and the realisation of the ideals which underpin the functioning of the european union. we should fight to reduce poverty in our areas, but it's an illusion to dream of eliminating poverty. unfortunately, we are facing major social problems and the european union cannot and should not abandon this programme. it should also be noted that charitable organizations, despite the laxity of the institutions, are already active this year, especially in conditions as difficult as the current crisis.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the european union is not, as many people often think, an oasis of peace and prosperity. the economic crisis is causing social unrest and protests. these are often the most common requests for help, because there are many people in europe who really have nothing to put in their pot. the importance of the food distribution programme to our citizens is shown by the fact that 18 million european union citizens benefit from it, and not just the unemployed, migrants, the homeless or the excluded. we must remember that 40 million citizens of the european union are living in poverty and that the same number are at risk of poverty, and i am therefore pleased that the agreement between the institutions has finally been reached and that aid will be implemented. the needy are not interested in the legal basis. this long discussion is a disgrace to the institution!
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few remarks following your various speeches. the food aid programme for the most deprived is the result of a dual objective of the common agricultural policy. on the one hand, to ensure a constant and correct income for farmers, which is the aim of the market intervention mechanism, and on the other hand, access to food for all citizens of the european union. that is why, instead of destroying surplus intervention on the market, it has been made available to the most deprived. since then, the common agricultural policy has evolved, as have the instruments within the common agricultural policy. that is why the european commission is proposing to maintain this programme because, even if the public stocks are no longer there, the problems of access to food for some european citizens still exist and they are not solved. the commission therefore proposes to continue this programme within the framework of european social policy. it is not true that there is no european social policy, because i remind you that we have a european social fund. this does not mean that the european union and the commission are the only ones to conduct social policies in europe. this is a matter for the member states, but it does not prevent us from having a social policy. therefore, i reply to those who say that there is no future for this programme after 2013 that the european commission has proposed to maintain this budget as part of social policy. the budget proposal is now before the council and parliament, which will take a decision on it. on the basis of this decision on the future of the budget, of course, the european commission did not renounce its right and obligation to initiate legislation, including in this area. that's the answer i can give. of course, this does not prevent us from thinking about the question of food waste and nutrition, even though the programme of aid to the poorest will be part of social policy. the commission is considering this and will present its ideas to parliament. i would also like to reply to mr agnew, who made a remark to the commission. i can assure you, mr agnew, that the commission has never asked farmers to produce less, but to produce better. i think it's a smart suggestion and not a stupid one, as you said. that is the point of all the proposals we have made. i would also like to say to mr stoyanov that if bulgaria does not participate in the programme of aid to the most deprived, that is the choice of the government. member states cannot be forced to participate in this programme, but member states who wish to can do so. i would like to thank you again for your support of this programme and i am pleased that we can already, through this decision, ensure the continuity of the programme, at least for the next two years.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it was nice to hear such strong support from this room for the free food distribution program for the most needy. i'm sure we're all happy about that. special thanks go to the european commission for its determination to ensure that the programme functions fully. there have been several adjustments and solutions to this programme proposed by the commission. let us remember that the legal basis was challenged in the court of justice, not the principle and the need to distribute food to the poorest. the court has only challenged the legal basis. it is true that the legal basis is not in the interest of those in need, but it must be decided by parliament and it must be discussed here in parliament. the programme is open to those countries which express an interest and make themselves known, as the commissioner has said. the current limited level of intervention on the agricultural market, the small stock of food and the expected changes in the cap rules for 2014-2020 will require the development of a new legal basis. i am confident that this house will take the initiative to work this out. we are aware of the need to develop a more effective and efficient way of delivering food aid. it is also worth analysing the experience of other member states. we should ask the food distribution organizations, the community organizations, the consumer organizations, how to organize this program better and more effectively in the future. further close cooperation with member state governments is needed. finally, let us hope that europe and the world will have as few people as possible who need free food. so we need to focus on growth and reducing unemployment. and finally, i'd like to thank all of you who have helped save this program. please, gentlemen, do so and so keep in the future!
in writing. i am very pleased that the food for the needy programme has been saved from being abolished. it will provide food aid to the most needy citizens of the european union for the next two years. the programme, which has helped 18 million eu citizens in 20 member states, will continue until the end of 2013 and will have a budget of €500 million per year. it is important that the programme be continued beyond 2013, that is, beyond 2013. unfortunately, i'm sure we won't be able to eradicate poverty by then. and it's poverty that is the most important reason for this program. it is worrying that the number of eu citizens in need of assistance is continuing to grow.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european food aid programme is important for many member states and is a confirmation of the european union's sense of responsibility for the poorest and most needy citizens. statistics show that over 18 million european union citizens benefit from this programme each year, and the food that reaches the poorest farms is a great support for families. in the face of the ongoing crisis, the number of poor and socially excluded people is increasing, which is why i think it is very important that the document is adopted as soon as possible. food aid is very important and should be continued, but i think many of the people who benefit from this support would rather have a job. our actions, in addition to food aid, should be directed towards job creation and thus reducing the number of homeless and poor.
on behalf of the ecr group. it's a bit sad to talk about the situation in the dairy sector. when i look back many years, i remember that in my village there were several hundred cows grazing in the meadows, and today there are none. in many parts of my country, dairy farming has completely disappeared, and this is happening in many other countries of the european union. but we have to do what we have to do. we have to be as prepared as possible for the situation when the milk quotas are abolished. we are not going to avoid dramatic problems - there are already many indications of this - but what mr nicholson has proposed is a step in the right direction. the regulation of contractual relations is a very important thing. farmers, milk producers, are the weakest link in the chain which needs to be strengthened in relation to processors, and that is the direction in which the proposal in mr nicholson's report is heading. she needs to be supported.
mr. chairman, please! milk production is probably the most important sector in the whole of the common agricultural policy. we spend the largest part of the common agricultural policy funds on milk producers and processing. we should therefore be very careful to ensure that the dairy sector can continue to develop in a stable way. over the last several years, we've done a lot of things that have benefited the farmers, but also the consumers. the solutions proposed today are in some ways in line with the expectations of farmers and consumers alike. i would like, however, to see more attention paid in future work to the development of cooperatives and to the foundation of the sector on this type of management. it is good for the farmers themselves and good for the consumers. it is very important that the stability which has been eroded in this sector in recent years be restored to a certain standard, to a certain standard which would be valid for many years to come.
mr. chairman, please! the milk package is intended to improve the functioning of the milk market in the union after the end of quotas. this objective is to be achieved by strengthening the position of milk producers vis-à-vis processing plants and purchasers. it introduces the possibility of collective bargaining, the possibility of creating inter-branch organisations and is intended to improve transparency. but what i want to say here is that in practice, it is very often the case that supposedly better solutions turn out to be worse than the ones that exist today. it wasn't the quotas system that caused the crisis in 2009. the quotation is a proven instrument that gives producers guarantees and security. in other areas, like banking, we are proposing more oversight and regulation, and in the dairy sector we are moving towards liberalization. this will certainly not bring stability to our farmers and will encourage excessive concentration of production and the bankruptcy of many milk producers in the union.
in writing. in the light of the decision of the council of the european union to end the milk quota system, i would like to emphasise my position on the need to maintain the milk quota system after 2015. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to compensate for the additional costs of the milk levy. the annual increase in national milk quotas would therefore help to prepare the sector for the absence of restrictions on milk production. in this context, poland is prepared for such a situation both in terms of organisation and production potential. however, based on the experience of 2008, concerns remain regarding a renewed slump in demand on the milk market and the associated lack of disposal of milk surpluses. i would also like to point out that the date for the abolition of the milk quotas has been postponed in the past for a number of reasons. i therefore hope that more and more countries will join the position i represent, bearing in mind the situation of farmers and the desire to ensure that they are guaranteed a relatively stable environment.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is the world's largest importer of fishery products. given that this is an important source of food, particular attention should be paid to international agreements that compete with indigenous products. the common fisheries policy is of great importance for the environment, the recovery of resources and the fishing industry. the effect of sustainable development is that it is not competitive with products from countries outside the european union. the essence of the negotiations must therefore be, on the one hand, the defence of the interests of the member states in the context of the constraints imposed by the policies pursued and, on the other, the acceptance and observance of the rules by the third countries cooperating with the european union. it must be remembered that unthinking trade liberalization destroys the domestic market and, as a result, leads to uncontrolled, uncompetitive price increases for products.
in writing. the deepening of trade between the european union and the kingdom of morocco will certainly help the economic development of the country. however, the liberalisation of agricultural trade could have disastrous consequences for european agriculture. products from morocco do not meet many european standards in the fields of food safety, sanitation or environmental protection. the increase in imports of fruit and vegetables will cause a huge distortion of competition in this sector, which in times of economic crisis may even lead to the loss of jobs for many producers. it is necessary to strengthen the effectiveness of the community import control and security system, requiring moroccan producers to comply with the same standards as european producers.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. in particular, in today's globalised world, we need to support the development of new technologies that enable more efficient communication and use of data flows. the european union is currently engaged in a technological and innovation race to become a leader in a new and increasingly digital world. i therefore believe that we should not slow down the work on the second reading of the radio spectrum policy programme. the polish presidency has made every effort to ensure that the rspp enters into force as soon as possible, especially as both the commission and the council are in favour of adopting the document in its current form. a compromise agreement, such as the release of the 800 mhz band for wireless broadband internet services in all member states by 1 january 2013, the increase of mobile connectivity by 30 mbps by 2020 and the allocation of at least 1200 mhz of spectrum for mobile data transmission by 2015, and the removal of a very wide range of current use of the 400 mhz to 6 ghz spectrum, will allow the union to become a global leader in wireless broadband services. the priority of the programme is to create a radio spectrum framework that would help the european union to meet the key objective of high-speed internet access for all european union citizens. we must therefore remember that making effective use of data transmission by citizens and businesses is a challenge, but also an indisputable step towards improving the quality of learning and work, and thus guaranteeing the development of the next generations of europeans.
mr president, nobody speaks about the geopolitical consequences of the eventual exit and destabilisation of greece. whatever happens – and we know that we do not know – geopolitical consequences should form part of an overall european balance sheet. let us imagine the situation for a moment. first: a weakened south-east flank of the union; second: the greek schengen border in danger; third: the impact on the balance of power in the middle east, in the mediterranean and in the western balkans; fourth: the danger of an authoritarian scenario in greece. what would be the political weight of those geopolitical consequences of greece going bankrupt? the answer is: significant and far-reaching. we need therefore a holistic approach and not one of an accountant. we need a political solution to the crisis and not a bookkeeper’s solution. (applause)
in writing. – the outcomes of the last eu summit of 30 january 2012 delivered mixed signals and failed to satisfy critics and speculators who continue to doubt the eu’s ability to handle the current crisis. thus the upcoming council meeting of 1-2 march will be taking place at a rather crucial time, in particular against the background of a possible greek default. the european council and the european commission have already announced the current crisis cannot be tackled with austerity measures alone and that attention should also be given to stimulating growth and job creation. but the proposals put forward to promote such growth are not sufficient to deliver results. these proposals lack the funds and reforms that europe desperately needs. i agree with colleagues calling for a new proposal following the same guidelines and the same type of budget as for the marshall plan for europe’s recovery in 1948. we need now significant investment for supporting smes, entrepreneurship and self-employment initiatives, which in return will encourage economic expansion and job creation and improve the eu’s long-term competiveness. bold decisions and strong political will to promote fiscal stability are needed to restore investment and growth to europe. this is the only way out of the current crisis and the only way of preventing future crises.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the minister! i would like to thank the rapporteurs, and in particular mrs cornelissen, with whom i had the pleasure of working as shadow rapporteur. i believe that the comprehensiveness of the reports presented today clearly demonstrates that the european parliament is an active and valuable partner in the activities of the european semester. increasing financial consolidation is of course of paramount importance. however, the crisis also requires coordinated action to increase employment, especially among young people, whose situation is particularly acute. in december, the youth unemployment rate averaged over 22% and in some member states even over 40%, while - which seems surprising - the number of unfilled vacancies has been rising since 2009. it is therefore necessary to take decisive action at national and european level to promote the adaptation of education and lifelong learning systems to labour market requirements and to the development of entrepreneurship. i believe that the actions of the employment services and the effectiveness of the implementation of the european employment instruments require a thorough assessment. the overarching objective of administrative and economic reforms should be to create new jobs, support entrepreneurship and develop the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. these actions should also be reflected in the national reform programmes. i also hope that the implementation of the measures proposed in the initiative to increase opportunities for young people, in particular facilitating the creation and development of enterprises and the emphasis on work placements, and the better use of the european social fund will bring about a real improvement in the situation of young people.
mr. chairman, please! the economic policies of the member states and of the european union as a whole, especially in times of crisis, remain a key issue and require our particular attention. in these difficult times, the natural solution should be to seek to stabilise economic markets. we can only achieve this through a strong and coordinated budgetary policy to boost innovation. in addition, it is important to create new jobs, especially for young people, reduce their costs, review fiscal policies and reduce the burden of growing bureaucracy. this is all to follow the europe 2020 priorities and therefore needs to be implemented in a coherent way, taking into account the education and labour sectors. this will be the key to overcoming the crisis and, in the long term, will make a significant contribution to the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. in the context of the employment and social aspects report on the annual growth survey for 2012, i draw particular attention to the high level of youth unemployment. more than 5 million young people in the european union are currently unemployed, meaning that one in five young people in the labour market cannot find a job. in poland, at the beginning of 2011, nearly half a million unemployed people under 25 were registered with the labour offices. graduates of schools and universities are unable to find work, among other reasons, because of their lack of experience, which is very difficult to obtain nowadays. germany and france are examples where employers pay labour fund contributions during the period of training. this encourages employers to hire young people. quality standards for traineeships for young people are needed. after the traineeship, the young people must have the knowledge and skills needed in the specific labour market. on 1 february 2012, all eu member states agreed to develop their own plan for youth employment and support for small businesses. some will even set up special action groups to prevent youth unemployment. i hope that these plans will be implemented as soon as possible, because the situation for young people in the labour market is tragic.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome today's decision, because the adoption of the council's position at first reading is a very important step towards the swift launch of aid to the union's most deprived citizens. the council maintained its position that the programme should be fully financed by union funds. the annual ceiling for the financial contribution will therefore be eur 500 million for the current and the following year. key amendments by parliament, such as the determination of the eu origin of food, the buying of food products by tender and the reimbursement to charitable organisations of the costs of storing these products, were also taken into account. i am glad that the polish presidency also contributed to the compromise reached during the extremely difficult negotiations.
i'm the parliamentary rapporteur, and i didn't speak earlier, even though i volunteered. i'd like to say a few words. today we have concluded the decision-making process in the european parliament on the continuation (for 2012 and 2013) of the programme for the free distribution of food to the poorest in europe. this was made possible by the agreement reached in the council during the polish presidency. the european union allocates €500 million annually to this purpose, and the programme benefits 18 million poor people in 20 countries who have expressed interest in participating. it means that the union is mindful of the poorest and most excluded and that it is putting the idea of solidarity between people into practice on a daily basis. thank you to all who have contributed to the continued operation of this program, which has been in operation for 25 years. we must do everything we can to continue this programme in 2014-2020. it's our duty. the committee on agriculture will prepare a draft resolution on the need to continue this programme. members who are against or have doubts about this programme, i refer you to the report. i think they'll change their minds after they read it. i would also like to clarify that the programme was financed from resources not used under the cap.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to give my full support to the agreement between parliament and the council of the union on radio spectrum policy. this agreement will enable the union to become a global leader in broadband. in practice, the 800 mhz frequency will remain free for wireless broadband internet services throughout the union on 1 january 2013. at least 1200 mhz of spectrum will be dedicated to mobile data transmission by 2015. in the next few years, therefore, a completely new market for telecommunications services will be created in the union, with a new scale. this is very important for the people of the union and for technological progress in all 27 countries that make up the union today.
mr. chairman, please! the annual growth analysis presented by the commission covers budgetary, economic policy, employment and social rights and reform priorities. it thus emphasises fiscal policy measures to counter the effects of the crisis and the negligence of public administrations. parliament's role in the european semester process is unfortunately limited to giving its opinion on the commission's employment guidelines. the report under discussion merely expresses the increase of this role. i am opposed to the proposal to require member states with current account surpluses to prevent a downward spiral by increasing domestic demand. the call for the commission to present gender-disaggregated reporting data is also controversial. the demand for a financial transaction tax is alarming. the implementation and enforcement of anti-discrimination measures will only result in more regulation. on the basis of these and a number of other doubts, i voted to reject the report.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that in the current economic situation in europe it is appropriate to carry out an analysis of the planned growth for 2012. however, the clear weakness of this analysis is that it focuses primarily on the financial and debt crisis. the secondary role is played by growth promoters. the measures that would promote employment by stimulating investment in the union are also omitted. i am particularly concerned about the lack of activities to create eurobonds to finance key infrastructure projects. for countries like poland, for a province like my own, this could mean problems in the future with development and with securing employment growth.
in writing. − the schengen area is a tangible proof of european cooperation and integration. the extension of the agreement to the whole of the european economic area has helped to deepen relations between the countries of the continent. freedom of movement throughout europe is an undisputed and cherished privilege of every citizen. the objective of the effective implementation of the schengen acquis is to cooperate on an ongoing basis with signatories from outside the union. the participation of norway, iceland, liechtenstein and the swiss confederation in the work of committees supporting the european commission's executive powers in this area seems therefore to be a matter of course. by signing the agreement, we will enable these countries to participate in the programming discussions on the regulation of the schengen area and to present their positions and problems. by adopting this resolution, i agree to the conclusion of the recommended arrangements.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has today approved the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. we need closer coordination of economic policies, with a particular focus on key areas for action, to unlock europe's potential for sustainable growth. it's important to create jobs, especially for young people. the europe 2020 strategy puts a particular emphasis on action for jobs and development. we need guidelines so we can increase employment. the labour market should be open and accessible to young people in particular. however, it is young people who have the greatest difficulty finding a place in this volatile labour market. member states should continue to focus their efforts on priority areas, including the reduction of unemployment. such a joint action plan is an effective way of tackling this growing problem.
in writing. − the draft presented by the european commission sets ambitious targets for the community as a whole to combat the severe effects of the economic crisis on the european labour market. i would like to express my support for the amendments proposed in the committee on employment, which underline the fundamental role of the european funds in coping with the crisis and restoring balance in the labour market and call for the simplification of the granting systems so that they constitute an attractive form of aid for potential beneficiaries. however, even the most appropriate strategies and guidelines will not achieve the desired result without the solidarity of all the member states of the european union. the greatest threat to the achievement of the objectives of the strategy appears to be the announcement of a reduction in the structural funds in the next financial perspective for the period 2014-2020, which is a clear expression of a particularist rather than a community mentality. even the best-adapted legal, institutional and systemic framework, in line with the adopted guidelines, will not bring the expected improvement in the labour market without adequate means of implementation.
in writing. i would like to express my satisfaction with the decision of the european parliament, which on 15 february 2012 adopted the recommendation of the vice-president of the committee on agriculture, mr czesław siekierski (psl), to continue the programme of food distribution to the most deprived persons. following a long process of negotiations between representatives of the parliament, the commission and the council, and thanks to the efforts of the polish presidency, among others, an agreement was reached on the budget for the programme for the years 2012-13. i am convinced that the importance of this programme is growing in an era of continuing economic crisis and increasing poverty in european society. at present, more than 40 million people in the european union are living in poverty, and another 40 million are at risk of poverty. beneficiaries include the unemployed, the homeless, migrants, the elderly, the disabled, those in difficult material situations, including large families and single parents, totalling some 18 million people in need who have received assistance from the european union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, taking into account, amongst others, the substantial contribution of the rapporteur, mr czesław siekierski. the two-year extension is the right decision. in this context, i would like the commission to submit a proposal on how food is to be distributed and the main objectives, in terms of geographical and social groups, in the short term. this assistance, at least until the end of the crisis, is particularly important for the poor and the excluded.
in writing. - i voted with conviction in favour of the recommendation to distribute free food to the eu's most deprived citizens. i have long supported the activities of food banks, community committees and ngos operating in poland, especially in the carpathian region. the union programme is a valuable initiative that should be continued and developed, and i believe that we need to continue to talk to all the eu institutions so that the programme does not end in 2013.
in writing. i supported the continuation of the eu's programme for food distribution to the most deprived. well, we need help programs right now. in the face of the economic crisis, which is hitting the poorest, the union should do its utmost to safeguard the interests of the poorest. co-financing from national budgets is not a good solution, as it could limit or even exclude some countries from participating in this programme, especially those with low per capita income. the eu's food distribution programme is mainly used by the homeless, the unemployed, the elderly, but also by large families and single parents. statistically, over 18 million poor people in 20 member states benefit from this programme.
in writing. the ongoing financial crisis has exposed the imperfections of the institutional architecture and economic governance of the euro area. this should be reflected not only in the protracted decision-making process and ineffective enforcement of fiscal discipline under the stability and growth pact, but also in the vulnerability to speculative attacks and asset price volatility in sovereign bond markets, which undermine the effectiveness of the common monetary policy. the initial proposal to introduce so-called stabilisation bonds, a form similar to common government bonds issued on behalf of all euro area countries, certainly deserves attention. the potential benefits of such a solution are the main reasons for further consideration. the use of a debt 'mutualization' formula can help to increase the efficiency, stability and resilience of the european sovereign bond market to sudden shocks. in times of heightened risk aversion, the single bond market will facilitate market access for the participating member states and increase the efficiency of the monetary transmission mechanism in the euro area. it should also be added that the effect of scale will reduce transaction costs and strengthen the role of the euro as an international reserve currency in the global financial market. however, a full examination of all the options and a sound assessment of the risks involved is necessary to assess objectively this proposal, the implementation of which has important implications for the global financial market and the future viability of the euro area.
in writing. the problem of unemployment is growing and thus the europe 2020 target of reducing unemployment is becoming increasingly difficult to achieve. that is why we need a new social policy, especially for young people. in many member states, unemployment is so high that young people have serious difficulties finding work, and this cannot continue. let us remember that the future is young people and we should invest in them first. it is important that in the annual growth analysis, youth employment is identified as a priority. we need to develop strategies that will make it easier for young people to find work. i am pleased that the report talks about the need for training or stresses the importance of mobility to solve these problems. it is also important to remember that the quality of work, traineeships and internships must also be taken into account.
in writing. employment and decent social conditions are the rights of citizens and the duty of governments. employment is the source of human well-being and the development of societies. policy makers must be sensitive to these issues and must make every effort to use all available institutional, legal and economic and financial means to achieve this. employment is an economic and social policy objective of particular importance in times of crisis. we are experiencing a crisis, sometimes even painful, as in greece. investments that create jobs, stimulate domestic demand - these are effective ways, not just cuts and sacrifices. in times of crisis, there's also a different role for taxes, so that in order to tax people fairly, the rich should support the poor more. we need more social solidarity. it is good that parliament has taken up this matter, it should be put into effect quickly.
in writing. − the deepening economic crisis and the rising rate of youth unemployment are signals for decisive action both at european level and in each member state. only by taking concrete and decisive action can the problem of unemployment among new entrants to the labour market be reduced. it is particularly important to counter the ruthless exploitation of so-called waste contracts, which contribute to the gradual increase of social exclusion. improving the conditions and quality of employment for young people is why i support this initiative and voted in favour of the report on employment and social aspects in the 2012 annual growth survey.
mr. chairman, please! today we heard here a call for dialogue with president assad. i think president assad has crossed a red line, beyond which there is no dialogue with him. the blood of innocents, the blood of children tortured in syrian prisons, overrides the possibility of a dialogue with president assad. and we need to make it clear that from this place -- which is important to many syrians because it is a symbol of freedom and democracy -- from the european parliament, the words are: assad must go. assad must be held accountable. we must be clear and unequivocal about the fact that the european union faces a huge challenge and a huge question: are we just a discussion club, are we able and able to act actively in defence of the values around which the european union was created? for this reason too, it must be made clear that we must respond to the positions of our important partners in the global market, in global politics - russia and china. there has to be a very clear signal from the european union that if china and russia want to work with us - and we of course want to work with them - then both china and russia must respect the values that we respect.
mr. chairman, please! i hope i can use one more minute of mr. prover's absence. is it possible to give me two minutes? thank you very much! i'll first give you a brief analysis, starting with the internal situation in syria. as of today, about 8,000 people have been killed, of which about 1,000 are children under the age of 15. about 20,000 people are reported missing, while 70,000 people have been arrested. there's a water and electricity shortage in syria. no aid is reaching the civilian population because the aid trucks are being fired upon by rockets. the civilian population's homes are also under artillery attack. it's hard to get to the wounded, and those who try to escape are shot by snipers. on the international front, on the one hand, we have iranian mercenaries fighting in syria, on the other hand, we have russia, which is continuously selling equipment to the syrian regime, and on the third hand, we have the stalemate at the un, where the resolution was vetoed. what's the cure? the high representative catherine ashton, mr søvndal, has spoken about this, and my colleagues have also spoken about this. what is to be done? assist the opposition, increase sanctions against the syrian regime, negotiate with russia and china, and possibly consider a hague tribunal for the president. these are the right things to do, but they take time. but we have to do something now to stop the killing of civilians. i think we should push president al-assad to open humanitarian corridors and allow civilians to leave besieged cities, stadiums, which probably won't save everyone from losing their lives, but it will certainly reduce the loss of life caused by the fighting, and on the other hand it will allow us to deliver any humanitarian aid that we can.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. there's a lot of real words here today. of course, we all know that we can't really change anything with this debate, but i think that's the right thing to say. there should be appeals from these stands here as well, but not to president assad. i agree with mp kamiński who said that dialogue with president assad no longer seems to make sense. but today, it should be an appeal to his ministers, generals, officers, soldiers and police, to those who murder their own citizens on the criminal orders of president assad. we have to appeal to these people and say loudly: if you don't stop these actions, if you don't stop the murder of your own citizens, then one day you will be in front of the hague tribunal, because we will not forget and these things will be documented. i think it's definitely worth appealing to russia and china and saying, "in poland, there was a popular saying: 'don't go down this road,' because it's a path of humiliation and shame. this is a shameful path, this is a path that cannot be accepted in the 21st century, especially in europe, so this appeal should be addressed especially to the rulers of russia. but i think it's also worth appealing to the high representative, to the european commission, to step up support for this perhaps weak, perhaps dispersed, but existing syrian opposition. we as meps can't do much, but we might consider - here's an appeal to our colleagues in this house - whether it's worthwhile to set up a group for syria in the european parliament to express our support for those who are protesting against the criminal assad regime.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in syria and the problems facing civil society there are not new to us. we have dealt with this many times in the foreign affairs committee and the subcommittee on human rights. we condemn what is happening in syria right now, because the use of tanks, aircraft, and shooting at people against their own people is appalling and reprehensible, but it is also typical of regimes like the syrian regime. the veto of russia and china against the un security council resolution has deepened the drama of this situation. we really need to put pressure on these two countries to change their position, but above all to stop exporting weapons to syria, which are being used against the protesters. the initiative to send peacekeeping forces, initiated by the arab league with a united nations mandate, should also be supported. the arab league's support for the syrian opposition is an important step in building a group of friends around syria to end the massacres of the population. we've already talked about numbers here. it is our duty to also put pressure on the regime to allow for peaceful and democratic change in syria. i think that among those who - as mr lisek said - are part of the ba'ath party, there are also those who see that a crime is being committed against their own citizens. the european union is committed to the peace process in syria, and the syrian government has committed itself to the peace process in syria, and to the peace process in syria. it seems that the provision of this aid at this stage requires first of all the opening of the humanitarian corridor mentioned by the arab league, which is possible towards the turkish borders. we agree that this humanitarian corridor is to save people in a tragic situation, to help those who need help - both the wounded and other members of that society.
mr. chairman, please! this is another extremely important foreign policy debate taking place in the absence of baroness ashton. i very much appreciate the representative of the danish presidency, i appreciate what he has presented today, but such an important issue concerning the european union's southern neighbour, a country with which we have very close relations, cannot be dealt with without a representative of european diplomacy. i would like to raise two points. the first is the russian and chinese veto. these countries have taken responsibility in the security council for the escalation of the conflict in syria, and in fact for the hundreds of lives that have been lost in the intensified attacks by government forces on the civilian population, just after the chinese and russian intervention. here's the situation: russia says that this veto is because they don't want any resolution to lead to a change of regime that they consider legitimate. well, we believe that a regime that kills its own citizens, over 6,000 people, is not legitimate. that's how he's undermining his legitimacy. secondly, i expect eu diplomacy to be deeply involved in creating this humanitarian corridor, so that we can help those who are most vulnerable to government attacks, those who are injured, those who are unable to get help in hospitals. this is the most important thing and the test for european diplomacy today.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are watching with growing frustration the developments in syria, a frustration that - as you can see from the voices coming from this room - is shared by many, many of us. it comes from a sense of helplessness in the face of the suffering, the death of thousands of ordinary syrians. so can we do more than we have done, or could we do more than we have done, to impose diplomatic sanctions, partial, limited economic sanctions and an embargo on the supply of military equipment to syria? there are, to be honest, probably not many, but there are examples -- from fairly recent history last year -- that if the international community acts together, in solidarity, then the effects of such actions, not just diplomatic but limited military actions, have positive effects. so do debates like this one, and the resolutions we've adopted - this is the fourth one on syria - make sense? yes, they do. firstly, to once again show solidarity with the injured and oppressed syrians. second, to let the syrian authorities know that we're watching what's going on. we are closely monitoring the situation in syria and those who commit crimes will not go unpunished. but the most important thing is to finally persuade - and this is what we also call for in the resolution - european governments, european leaders, the european foreign affairs council, first, to significantly expand the package of sanctions that have been applied against syria - diplomatic and economic sanctions. second, to increase the scope of humanitarian aid to the needy and suffering. third, to show determination in bilateral relations with russia and china and to persuade those countries to adopt a un resolution that will open the door to effective action in defense of innocent people.
mr. chairman, please! recently, there has been a wave of protests in north africa, the arab spring, but nowhere have we seen violence against civilians on the scale of what is happening in syria. the reporting of the imprisonment, detention and torture of children by the syrian military is particularly disturbing. this is truly an exceptional case of cruelty. member states should unite and take action even without un support. by the time russia and china join us, it may be too late. it's good to have an emergency summit like this one on libya. but it is not just about ending the conflict, but also about our european presence in the region. europe is often accused of being politically inactive, of acting too late, especially in the middle east. so let's get ahead of the curve here. at the summit, member states must think about how to work with syria even after the regime has fallen. we must now plan the actions that will ensure stability in this country, and plan these actions together with the arab league. how can we prevent cross-cultural conflicts? we don't want another war here, and we don't want a repeat of iraq. until then, we can only count on the righteous people of syria, who risk their lives to save other syrians, to protect them and save them from the cruel regime. i'm working on a written statement that will honor the just and establish a european day of the just. i hope that when this nightmare in syria is over, we will also celebrate the right and just actions in syria, and there are many of them right now.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it's fortunate that we're debating right after the debate that was on the situation in syria. in fact, in the european parliament resolution we are discussing, this is quite significant. i think that condemning china and russia in this resolution for the position they have taken on syria is one of the many good, worthy things that my political group also supports. it is also worth noting that this is the european parliament's unambiguous position on this controversial issue. the second thing is that the commissioner spent a lot of his speech explaining why mrs ashton won't be at this session. i firmly believe that this absence will not be used by those who accuse the european union of not being interested in human rights issues to confirm this thesis. i have every confidence that this will be treated as you said, which is an absence for other business.
mr. chairman, please! the world needs a new global human rights agenda, not just promises on paper, but concrete action. politicians need to understand that investing in human rights is as important as investing in the economy. there's an analogy here to investing in the upbringing and education of the younger generation. everyone agrees that it's the most efficient investment, but when it comes to designing and voting on a budget, they have amnesia. we need to get human rights out of the political ghetto. there is no excuse for the violation of these rights, which is not only happening in countries that are considered undemocratic, but also, unfortunately, in the countries of the european union and the united states. the crisis is a violation of human rights to be fought at the expense of the poorest. governments must ensure equitable development, combat abuses that lead to and exacerbate poverty, and curb armed conflict that generates violence. in the context of the upcoming 19th session of the un human rights council, i would like to draw particular attention to violence against women. it is unacceptable that every day in europe one in five women suffers violence. the annual cost of the economic, social and health consequences of violence against women in the 47 council of europe member states is estimated at eur 34 billion. over the past two years, the council of europe, the commission and the parliament have taken significant steps to combat violence against women. unfortunately, the actions taken so far do not reflect the commitments made. i call on the european union and all council of europe member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. to date, only 18 member states have signed the convention, but none have ratified it. (the speaker agreed to answer the question put to him in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question according to the blue card procedure. you devoted part of your speech to describing poverty and economic discrimination in some european countries or the european union and the united states. do you not think that this is a little inappropriate in the context of the issues we are discussing here, namely the issues of murder, torture, murder and imprisonment?
the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the implementing acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. thank you for asking. no, i don't think it's inappropriate because we talk about what happens in non-democratic countries, we speak about it publicly, we condemn it, and we keep quiet about some of the things that happen in the united states or in the european union countries, which consider themselves to be leaders in the field of human rights. in fact, when you look at the various statistics, for example, on violence against women, it turns out that in europe, seven women die every day because of violence, and there are many other things that are revealed, like the guantanamo prison. so we have to talk about that, too, and we can't pretend that evil only happens in non-democratic countries, where there are regimes, because it's all around us too.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very good, insightful report he has presented to us today. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, we face new challenges. the quality of our work will determine how europeans live in the future. we have started reforms in the common agricultural policy, in the cohesion policy. we're also very active in other areas. we need to be very professional and have good support from both the european parliament administration, the commission staff and the people we employ. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the work is not compromised. but we have a crisis in the european union. we need solidarity with those to whom we say every day: save. this applies to greeks, poles and people of other countries. i am in favour of freezing the european parliament's budget, but at the same time i am in favour of looking for a number of other solutions which are even more effective. we have been talking about the european parliament's seat in strasbourg. this is incomprehensible to us, because we talk about it every day, and incomprehensible to millions of europeans who do not know why the european parliament has two seats. we need to get this straightened out right now and find a way out of this absurdity. i have been in favour of the european parliament having a single seat in brussels from the outset. that will mean the savings of several hundred million dollars that we're talking about here today.
mr. chairman, please! i thank the rapporteur very much for this report, but it was really unnecessary. this report could be made up of three words: cut, cut, cut. if we want to set an example for the citizens of europe today, we must cut costs, starting with our own. and it's nothing - i'm addressing mr. rubik's - that it might be a small amount. would you trust your money to someone who couldn't take care of his own small amount? our problem is that we can't start with ourselves. that's how much we spend on propaganda for the european union, the european parliament. that's the only point on which i agree with mr. rubiks. it is worth giving money to the museum of european history, although i do not know whether it should be in the budget of the european parliament. besides, the best propaganda is, "sir", if we promise each other diets. the best propaganda we can do is to cut our national team spending by 15%. so this report either has to be numbers or it has to be short: cut, cut, cut.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that in the context of the economic crisis and the burden of public debt, it is of the utmost importance that the european parliament and its members demonstrate budgetary responsibility and discipline. in this spirit, i agree with the rapporteur that we should ensure a realistic budget in the coming years and take measures to achieve long-term savings. freezing budget lines on issues such as travel in 2013 seems to be the most appropriate solution to the difficulties facing europe. i also agree to limit construction projects during this term to those already underway. finally, i consider it essential that the bureau and the committee on budgets work closely together throughout the year, so that the budgetary procedure can run smoothly and changes can be made effectively that bring real savings.
in writing. the european union is experiencing the worst economic crisis since its inception. the rapid increase in unemployment, especially among young people, the collapse of industrial production and trade, and the need for considerable savings at the level of the member states of the community mean that the european parliament too must cut its expenditure. i therefore welcome the report, particularly the second point, which concerns greater integration of the institutions. the analyses show that such an action would reduce the expenditure of parliament on monthly transfers to strasbourg. in view of the deteriorating financial situation of the citizens of the union, i cannot understand the point of monthly transfers which cost around eur 280 million a year and lead to the emission of 20 000 tonnes of co2. we cannot ignore the opinions of citizens who in 2002 collected over 1.2 million signatures in favour of limiting the ep's seat to one city brussels. another important point in the report is the demand for a reduction in the eeas budget. as the practice of this institution shows, despite its considerable expenditure, it does not lead to an increase in the importance of the european union among our external partners. i therefore believe that the expenditure relating to the salaries and allowances of diplomats and the travel expenses of mrs catherine ashton should be reviewed.
in writing. i strongly support the motion for a resolution on petition 0924/2011 by dan pescod, on behalf of the european blind union (ebu) and the royal national institute of blind people (rnib), on access to books and other printed materials for blind people. we should be particularly sensitive to the needs of the millions of blind and partially sighted people in europe. these and other people with reading disabilities need access to publications in accessible formats such as large print, audio or braille. in today's world, especially in the face of the internet, access to information quickly and without additional barriers is in fact a guarantee of the full enjoyment of civil and social rights. the lack of access is in fact a restriction on the rights of citizens already affected by disability. access to cultural goods in the form of books, records and presses is one of the necessary conditions for the proper treatment of blind and partially sighted people and, above all, for their access to education at an appropriate level. we should do everything we can to ensure that the millions of blind and partially sighted people in europe have their fundamental right to read and to have access to books and publications.
in writing. for visually impaired people, the lack of access to books in accessible formats is a significant and difficult barrier to full integration into society. limited access to such publications for blind or partially sighted persons also limits their access to further knowledge, education and, consequently, to improving their position on the labour market. there is no doubt that all the institutions of the european union should support actions which will result in equal opportunities for disabled people and the fight against their social exclusion. i therefore believe that the draft treaty proposed by the world blind union, among others, requires very careful consideration and should not be blocked by the european union. the solutions proposed in the report facilitate the use of existing publications by visually impaired persons on the basis of cross-border exchange, thus preventing discrimination against blind and partially sighted persons.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on family reunification of third-country nationals residing in the eu, by juan fernando lópez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000015/2012 - b7-0031/2012). ***as the president of the commission, who is the author of the oral question, is not present, i would like to give the floor to the european commission, commissioner michel barnier.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there was a call for the european commission to act quickly. i believe that the key to the success of the eu institutions should not be speed but efficiency. otherwise, it's going to be like the acta bubble. i'd be careful about that. secondly, it is clear from this debate, from a careful reading of this document, that this is not a black and white film, that there are serious doubts and controversies, raised by my predecessors from different sides on different issues. so it seems that it's not that simple and obvious. finally, another thing: when we talk about the free market, we must remember that it is something quite different from certain political decisions, which we have also discussed here. we have to decide whether we are taking decisions to increase trade, to clarify the rules of trade, or whether we are taking strict political decisions to support, in one way or another, more or less, the neighbours of the european union who need it. i am sure that we must be very precise and detailed, because as the old saying goes, the devil is in the details, in defining issues such as subsidies for exporters, the issue of customs controls, so that they are realistic, and in defining the definition of original goods.
in writing. the launch of the barcelona process in 1995 marked the beginning of the process of building mutual cooperation in the mediterranean area in the fields of politics and security, economy and finance, and social, cultural and humanitarian partnership. the union for the mediterranean was established in 2008 as a continuation of these three activities, which will ultimately culminate in the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. the introduction of preferential and uniform rules of origin, which in particular allow for diagonal cumulation, will be a significant step forward in the economic development of the region, allowing additional support for goods produced in the different countries of the region. this is particularly important in a situation where 42 countries are expected to sign the convention. at the same time, the introduction of uniform rules will greatly simplify the conduct of business and consequently increase economic activity. it also leads to closer cooperation, improved stability and security and common development on the basis of partnership, which was the foundation of the barcelona process and remains its objective.
mr. chairman, please! why did i vote against the european parliament resolution on the situation in hungary? i think that our institution, a very important institution like the european parliament, should think very carefully about whether it is worth interfering in the internal affairs of the member states. if there really were serious violations of the democratic order, then we should speak out. but in my view, the european parliament has become the arena of an internal battle between the left and the right in hungary. i don't want to judge because it's not my role whether prime minister viktor orbán is right in everything he does. it is not, because it is not sacred, but it is certainly not the place for our parliament to be involved in the internal political games of individual countries. such games are always played, and individual democracies are of course entitled to play them, but the role of the european parliament should not be devalued by using it in such disputes.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this resolution in all conscience, because i believe that there is a political drive in our parliament for a prime minister elected by a huge (percentage) of the votes. it's never been like this on this side of europe, that the party has gained so much support. i think that we should, with all the talk about democracy in this institution, respect the democratic verdict of the voters. we should of course be assessing prime minister orban, but i have the impression that the attacks on him are part of a political game. prime minister orban is currently cleaning up the mess left by the socialists in hungary. it's a pity that i only see two mps in the socialist benches today. in my view, we as the european parliament should not resort to such methods. we should play fair. this resolution is an example of unfair play.
today's resolutions on hungary constitute a dangerous and dangerous precedent which gives proof that the european parliament is interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state. it's not supposed to be like this. if this happened today in hungary, you can ask when it will happen in relation to other countries. why is this happening? well, because the right-wing conservative government of prime minister orbán decided to put in the constitution a reference to values that are contrary to the political correctness that prevails in europe today: a reference to christian values, a reference to the institution of marriage as a union between a man and a woman, a reference to the principle that human life is protected from the moment of conception. the double standards and hypocrisy of the socialists who are attacking hungary today is shown by the fact that when i sent a letter on behalf of a group of polish mps and voters to president schulz - then president of the socialist group, now president of the european parliament - and pointed out the mass expulsion of right-wing journalists from the polish media, there was no reaction. that's the double standard, that's the hypocrisy.
thank you very much. thank you. we're going to fix this.
mr. chairman, please! the hungarian constitution, although protested by the socialist left, is an important achievement of the country's system. it is a document that emphasises the european and christian values on which hungarian society is based, strengthens the protection of life and the institution of marriage, but above all replaces the basic law of the communist era that was in force until now. the doubts expressed by the authorities of certain member states are, in my view, largely unfounded, if not exaggerated. i voted today to accept my group's motion for a resolution and to reject the motion tabled by the left. i think that in the current political and economic situation in which hungary finds itself, we should show broad support for the society and the authorities of this country. i am displeased with any attempt to challenge the legal order established by the hungarian parliament in a democratic manner in accordance with and respecting generally accepted standards of the western world.
mr. chairman, please! this is not the first time that the european parliament has dealt with the situation in russia, and it is a good thing that it is doing so. russia is an important partner for the european union. it is adjacent to the european continent. it's also poland's neighbor. it's no wonder that more and more people in this house, regardless of political divides, are looking with growing concern at what's happening beyond our eastern border. the upcoming presidential election in russia there is no doubt about it will not be a fair election. the opposition is actually getting stronger. candidates who don't fit the camp of power are simply not registered. and then there's russia's stance on international politics, which kind of unmasks the putin regime. i mean, the russian veto on the un resolution on syria. the russians have stood up to this issue and shown what they really are by siding with the ruthless killers of the syrian regime.
mr. chairman, please! today we condemn russia, but perhaps it would be good if this appeal reached the governments of the member states of the european union. the representatives of the many political parties that sit in this parliament are actually partly responsible for a kind of hypocrisy. the governments of these countries are basically sacrificing human rights on the altar of trade relations with moscow. i think it would be good if, while speaking today - and rightly so - in defence of human rights in russia, in defence of free elections, in defence of a free media, the representatives of the many groups in this parliament would be beating their chests for their governments, for example the german government, but not only. i believe that without that, this democracy will be empty. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! the recent russian parliamentary elections are widely considered to have been rigged. this is reflected in the continuous mass demonstrations against the current authorities since december, which have taken the form of an increasingly organized social movement. parliament already called in december for new elections to be held on the basis of democratic standards. in the run-up to the presidential elections, we are obliged, through the involvement of european diplomacy, to give decisive support to russian civil society activists opposed to undemocratic practices. the next task is to mobilise the russian authorities to respect human rights, democracy and the rule of law. in supporting the resolution, i call on the kremlin authorities to hold free and fair elections based on political competition. in particular, i call for the decision to prevent opposition candidates grigory jawlinsky and dmitry mieziencev from running in the elections to be reversed. i hope that the upcoming elections will be the first democratic lesson in the time of vladimir putin.
mr. chairman, please! i want to make it very clear that i did not vote for this resolution because it is not really in the interest of farmers, but of big business. and secondly, i would like to say that in my country, poland, we had a big problem with the moroccan strawberries, which hit the polish strawberry producers. i think that the european parliament should not be creating resolutions which are in fact against the economic interests of the people who elected us to this european parliament. that's why i voted for it.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has spoken on a matter which, i think, is stirring the world today. mr. chairman, please! i should like to say that in voting today on the resolution on the 19th session of the united nations, i voted against the amendments which, once again in this house, under the innocently sounding name of 'reproductive rights', conceal the propaganda and promotion of the killing of unborn children. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! syria's ruling president assad has been using brutal violence against his own citizens for almost a year. the international community's successive initiatives have not been successful. the more alarming are the differences among the permanent members of the security council. in voting for the resolution, i express my strong disapproval of the russian and chinese actions in the international arena in this regard. i am particularly sorry that these countries have blocked a resolution condemning the regime in damascus and have called for a re-examination of the situation. within syria itself, there are worrisome reports of militant fundamentalists appearing among the protesters, calling for jihad and seeking civil war. i therefore call on the authorities to stabilize the situation in the country and to stop the repression against the public and opposition activists. open and peaceful dialogue between the people and the rulers is the only acceptable way to fulfil public commitments, implement democratic reforms and guarantee respect for the rights of all ethnic groups.
in writing. − the recent political developments in hungary are raising many concerns, not only because of the specific restrictions imposed by the government but also for the sake of democracy in hungary. since december 2010, the orbán government has introduced worrying legislation: the media laws that significantly restrict freedom of press; the cardinal laws which limit hungary’s central bank and data-protection agency; and a new constitution which imposes conservative ideology on the citizens by explicitly touching on the issue of abortions and same-sex marriage. while prime minister viktor orbán uses nice words to calm down our concerns, his words are void if not backed by consolidating actions. having expressed our concerns about the situation in hungary, it is our turn to transform our words into concrete actions. with the following resolution the european parliament requests an investigation into the compliance of hungary’s recent legislation with the eu’s treaties. we also instruct the european commission to make use of legal measures, including article 7 of the eu treaty, in case hungary fails to meet the legal obligations deriving from its eu membership. our commitment to the eu’s values and to the rights of the hungarian people is reaffirmed by this resolution, therefore i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − we claim to live in a europe of free nations and profess to value freedom and democracy. two decades after the fall of communism and the end of the division of our continent, what now do i see? hypocrisy and double standards from those who claim to champion the rule of law and the will of the people. of what crimes does mr orbán stand accused? inscribing christian values in the hungarian constitution; defining marriage as the union of one man and one woman; protecting life from conception; characterising communism as tyranny. this house is the highest form of european democracy. it should constantly seek to promote democratic government and the rule of the majority with the respect of the minority. i have no doubt that minority rights are respected in hungary today. if mr orbán’s actions are not in line with the views of the majority of the hungarian people, the consequence will be clear at the next hungarian election. let the hungarian electorate judge mr orbán then, as is appropriate in a democracy, and let the european institutions follow not the path of external interference, but rather that of respect for the sovereignty of the hungarian people.
in writing. the current situation in russia is unusual. for the first time in a long time, we can see so many social protests. demonstrations against the politics of the ruling tandem are taking place in many cities and, unlike those organized by the party apparatus, are voluntary and spontaneous. this is a sign of the emergence of a civil society. the authorities' reaction has nothing to do with respecting human rights, or even respecting the constitution of the russian federation. i would like to express my support for the resolution because, despite the efforts to establish good political and economic relations with that country, the european union cannot do so at any cost. and as the guardian of the highest values in the international arena, she should boldly expose her position.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in russia because it stresses the need to call for free, fair and democratic elections. however, i consider the amendments tabled by the ecr group to be the most relevant in this context. in them, she demanded an explanation of the deaths of sergei magnitsky and khazimurad kamalov, as well as punishment of those guilty of the murder of anna politkovskaya. i think that the explanation of these murders has an impact on the pre-election situation in russia.
in writing. − the continuing imprisonment of mikhail khodorkovsky reflects the arbitrary and politicised nature of justice in russia under the putin regime. however, the recent demonstrations in russia following the rigged parliamentary elections in december show that ordinary russians are losing patience with their authoritarian government. putin will inevitably return to the presidency in march but he will hopefully take account of the demands of the opposition, one of which is the immediate release of political prisoners such as mikhail khodorkovsky. at the very least, putin should act on the findings of the presidential commission on human rights, which was highly critical of the conduct of khodorkovsky’s second trial.
in writing. - in russia, for a while we clearly saw steps towards democracy, including through changes to the rules on the registration of political parties. positive decisions were unfortunately quickly blocked, overshadowed by the brutal suppression of protests and the harassment of the opposition. it should be remembered that this is the opposition that is still outside the parliament. we do not have the instruments to support it directly, but we can invite its representatives to parliament and support their activities in russia. especially now, in the run-up to the election, there is a perfect moment when international criticism of the actions of the russian authorities and support for the opposition are yielding double results. it not only forces the authorities to translate, but also creates legitimacy and international recognition for the pro-democracy opposition movements. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated.
in writing. the eu-morocco trade liberalisation agreement is difficult to assess unequivocally. political and strategic considerations, the need to develop neighbourly cooperation, the economic reforms carried out and the democratization of the country indicate the need for further rapprochement and development of cooperation. the proposed trade agreement is more favourable to morocco, but the country is only just beginning to develop. the rapporteur believes that this agreement is more harmful to moroccan farmers than to european farmers, that the liberalisation will benefit large companies with mainly european capital, including french, which control trade. the european commission says that trade will be closely monitored, that the increase in tomato imports will be insignificant and that the imported fruit and vegetables will meet quality and production standards. questions remain about the social conditions offered to those employed in their manufacture, including children, and other standards of the production process. it is also true that other countries are also seeking the moroccan market and it is difficult for the neighbouring union to remain idle. no clear arguments for yes or no.
in writing. - i strongly object to any attacks on civilians. however, the situation in syria is not as clear as it seems, it is closely linked to events unfolding throughout the region. this is not just another arab revolution, it's also a struggle for influence between the west and the russian-iranian tandem. that's why without the consent of these countries, it's impossible to remove president assad from power. a prime example was the recent meeting of the un security council. it should also be noted that the situation in syria is not as clear as some sources suggest. the president still enjoys considerable support, especially in the big cities, with alawites and christian communities, which make up over 30% of the population, standing firmly behind him. over the years, the authorities in damascus have softened religious conflicts, including by banning the muslim brotherhood. today, clashes between alawites and sunnis continue in the army-abandoned districts of homs and idlib. so it is likely that after the fall of assad, there will be an escalation of religious strife. nor is there any closer connection between the istanbul-based syrian national council and the protesters dying in the streets of homs. the union should nevertheless strongly condemn the killing of unarmed civilians, including children, who represent more than 10% of the victims of this conflict. we should demand that assad establish humanitarian corridors and allow civilians to leave besieged cities, which would greatly reduce the casualties caused by the fighting.
in writing. − the work of the un human rights council is of great importance to monitoring and protecting human rights globally, and holding violators to international accountability. the 19th session of the human rights council will be of great importance against the background of the urgent human rights situation in syria, iran and tibet. while i remain hopeful that these urgent issues, among others, will meet with concrete solutions at the upcoming session, i must also express my concern at some key issues concerning the work and structure of the council. the first is the ongoing practice of ‘bloc politics’, which affects the selection of countries and situations receiving attention in the council. the second relates to the council’s membership criteria that allow countries which violate human rights to criticise human rights violations. the eu’s engagement with the council is essential for promoting respect for human rights, and thus i welcome our participation in the regular work of the council and at special sessions. our involvement allows us to express our concerns, strengthen the council’s credibility and influence the decisions taken, to the benefit of human rights. this current resolution illustrates our key messages and concerns, with reference to the upcoming session, and therefore i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution setting out the ep's position on the 19th session of the un human rights council. i believe that the european parliament, based on its christian roots and the tragic history of 20th century europe, which was destroyed by the fire of totalitarianism, has a moral duty to pay particular attention to cases of human rights violations. i support the human rights record of the arab spring, but it makes no mention of the plight of christians. it is important to remember and speak out that the followers of jesus christ are the most persecuted religion in the middle east and north africa today. it should be noted that immediately after the overthrow of president mubarak, there were several attacks on coptic churches in alexandria and nag hamadi. there is also little mention of the situation of christians in nigeria, who have been targeted by organized hunting by the muslim population. i feel that it is our duty to support our brothers in the faith not only with prayer but also with good words and practical actions. so i hope that the issue of the increasing number of attacks on religion will be raised during the session of the un human rights council.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have already spoken here on many occasions about the political situation in belarus and adopted critical resolutions on the human rights situation in that country. but today we decided to focus on a particularly tragic aspect of the belarusian reality - the sentencing and execution of the death penalty in this country. recently, in november last year, two alleged perpetrators of the bombings in the minsk metro were sentenced to prison. we have no power to decide the guilt or innocence of either of these men, but we do share many of the very serious opinions that have been raised about the fairness of the trial. we therefore call on the authorities to refrain from executing this sentence, in particular against both mr. konovalov and mr. kowalov, but also to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty as a very cruel and irreversible punishment. we also call on the belarusian authorities to stop further repression of human rights defenders and democracy activists and to engage in dialogue with the union on the condition that all political prisoners are released.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as has been said here in this room, we are not really deciding on guilt, but we do know that there were many irregularities in the process of showing this attack on the subway, that some of these confessions were coerced by torture, that much of what should be in a normal trial was not in this trial. so it's not our place to decide guilt or innocence, and it's not our place to decide whether the death penalty is right or wrong. what we are voting on and what our position is, is to oppose these specific cases, because we must always oppose the execution and the imposition of the death penalty in non-democratic states, in dictatorial states, because we can be sure that there the death penalty is an element of political pressure, of political struggle, and we should always be against it. (laughter) (applause)
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. last year, the european parliament adopted four resolutions on human rights violations in belarus, the persecution of oppositionists, independent media and human rights defenders. today's debate is about the trial of dmitry konovalov and vladislav kowalov, found guilty of involvement in the terrorist attacks in vitebsk in 2005 and in minsk in 2008 and 2010. there are many grounds to question the course of the trial itself, which resulted in both of them being sentenced to death. human rights organisations regularly informed the public about both procedural irregularities and the alleged use of torture to force confessions. belarus is the only country in europe that still carries out the death penalty. our previous requests to the belarusian government to stop its use have not been answered. i therefore appeal again, this time in the name of the two convicted men, whose guilt is too much in doubt, and whose verdict is likely to cost the lives of two innocent people, to refrain from executing this sentence. the european union should respond decisively in such cases, using both concrete diplomatic tools and sanctions against officials or companies responsible for directly financing the regime.
on behalf of the ecr group. certainly president lukashenko, who publicly loves to take pictures of himself running around the ice with a hockey stick, the most painful with all due respect to our institution is not so much the resolution of our parliament, as the taking of the world hockey championship. this will be a real blow and i think that the european parliament should exert constant, very strong pressure on this issue. it's good that we're talking about belarus again. it's probably the most talked about topic in the last eight years in this building. i think it should be said unequivocally that the use of the death penalty as a de facto instrument of not so much criminal policy, but of policy as such, is absolutely unacceptable. wherever the death penalty is proposed, we should protest against it, in any other country as well.
mr. chairman, please! the case we're working on is a great example of the dangers that the death penalty poses. i'm not a judge, and i don't know if the convicted belarusians are guilty or not. what i do know is that there's no way to know what the motive for the attacks on the subway in minsk was. i know there are serious doubts about the fairness of the trial. i know that the death penalty is cruel, inhuman and irreversible. in the case of belarus, the punishment does not end even after the sentence has been carried out. article 175 of the criminal code of belarus states that the body of a executed person is not handed over to the family or informed about the place of burial. we don't know how many sentences are carried out or when they are carried out. the execution of the death penalty is a state secret in belarus. the only chance in this particular case is to pardon both of these men. therefore, we call on president alexander lukashenko to exercise the right of clemency. even a bad man can do some good. the president of belarus is facing such an opportunity. i hope she'll take advantage of it.
i, as a politician, as a human being, do not hide that i have growing doubts about the use of the death penalty as such. when i started my political career, i was a supporter of it. today, i am increasingly confronted - and i do not hide it - with the arguments of those who say that the death penalty is an inhuman punishment in today's world. that's the aspect of this discussion that we're having here today. but there is also another aspect, where we speak not only against the death penalty as such, but against the undemocratic political system, where we are not sure if it is not for political purposes that innocent people were elected - i emphasize, perhaps innocent people - so that the regime could boast of success, so that it could distract the attention of the public opinion of its country from the gigantic failures of the policy of president lukashenko. from this point, it is worth repeating the appeal to president lukashenko: mr. president, please pardon these people!
mr. chairman, please! the arbitrary nature of the sentence handed down by the minsk court to the alleged terrorists dmitry konovalov and vladislav kowalov has provoked a sharp reaction in europe. the credibility of the evidence presented by the prosecution and the fact that the trial was held behind closed doors are already in doubt. they haven't even explained the motive for the attacks. the question is, then, whether the guilty ones were convicted. appeals for clemency remain unanswered by the belarusian authorities. terrorist attacks are always strongly condemned. this also applies to last year's terrorist attacks on the minsk metro station. but any such case must be explained with the aim of punishing the perpetrators and compensating the victims. i therefore call on the belarusian authorities to conduct a thorough investigation and based on hard evidence a fair trial in accordance with the standards of today's world. the method of execution by firing squad is highly controversial and clearly draws an association with the most brutal period of stalinism in the history of eastern european countries. dialogue with the belarusian authorities is therefore only possible on the basis of their respect for the rule of law, international obligations, human rights and democracy.
we have spoken a lot today about the fact that the death penalty is unacceptable in general, and this is true regardless of, my dear friend, what percentage of the population is in favour of the death penalty, what percentage of the population is against the death penalty, and regardless of the method used to kill another human being. even the mp kaminski is ready to change his position. the barbarity that the dictator of belarus is notoriously committing right next to us, right next to the union, is a scandal that should not only lead to the freezing of assets, not only to the suspension of all plans for a hockey championship, but should lead to the application of all possible pressure, commissioner, which will eventually lead to the respect of human rights in belarus.
in writing. mr president, the issue of the enforcement of absolutely basic - and this should be emphasized - human rights in belarus is no longer even a concern. she's just creepy. and here we are talking about something as basic as the right to life. it is absolutely unthinkable that the apparatus of power should be free to decide the life and death of citizens, and any such situation is reprehensible. belarus remains the last country in europe to retain the death penalty in its legal system and to carry it out. it is also a state whose government uses its judiciary to crack down on internal independent opposition. the most recent example of this type of procedure was the death sentence of two men - dzmitry kanavalau and uladzislaw kavalyou, who were accused of carrying out terrorist attacks in vitebsk and minsk in 2005, 2008 and 2011. this sentence was passed despite the fact that no credible evidence was presented to show that the convicted persons had committed the crimes alleged against them. the men were also denied access to lawyers. it should be clearly stated that there are no circumstances which justify any derogation from respect for the human person and his or her dignity. i hereby call on the president of belarus, mr. alexander lukashenko, to pardon and release dmitry kanavalau and uladzislav kavalyou. i also appeal to the entire international community to make a unanimous appeal to the belarusian authorities to respect and uphold human rights
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union does not recognise the death penalty. according to article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights, no one shall be sentenced to the death penalty or be subject to its execution. we expect the same rules from our partner countries. japan should establish a formal moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death penalty. it is necessary to start an open debate on the death penalty in japan to reduce the high 80% public support for the death penalty, which is mainly due to lack of reliable knowledge. japan is also violating the international covenant on civil and political rights by treating prisoners in death row. isolation, limited contact with other people, and harsh conditions make them particularly vulnerable to mental illness. our resolution is a response to the announcement of the reintroduction of the death penalty. it must be strongly opposed wherever it is used, as it is a flagrant violation of human rights.
on behalf of the efd group. we are all strongly against discrimination against women in any social and professional sphere. we realise that women face a double challenge - to have children and to work - unlike men. it is also necessary to reverse negative demographic trends. that's why we want to make it easier for women to balance family and work life. we support the european parliament's decision on maternity leave and await the council's position on this matter. we believe that more money from the structural funds should be allocated to the creation of childcare for pre-school children in countries where access is still too low and the cost of organised care is often a barrier. as regards the reports on women's participation in politics and in a broader context gender equality, i would like to express my support for encouraging women to become involved in political parties and to participate in elections. but in politics and in business, i'm against parity voting, creating a situation where women are on the ballot just because the party has to meet a quota system. and as we've seen in interviews, in speeches, in polls, women, especially women themselves, don't want to owe their careers to parities. often, proposals to set quotas are perceived by women themselves as depreciation and a lack of recognition of their real talents and competencies. we have to fight discrimination. most of them do not want their career advancement to be based solely on the fact that they are women, not men. and we also have to distinguish between women who are fighting for what is right in society and extreme feminist movements, which represent a small percentage of women, at least in my country. many polish women also do not identify with initiatives to defend women's so-called reproductive rights, i.e. unrestricted access to abortion. i therefore have to express my deep disappointment once again at the report on equality between women and men, in which the defence of so-called sexual rights, that is to say the promotion of abortion, appears as one of the main demands. the controversial nature of the draft also reflected in the vote in the parliamentary committee, where almost half of those present abstained or voted against the report. in tomorrow's vote, the polish delegation of my political group will not support these reports.
madam president! i think that both the rapporteurs of this report should be congratulated. i am particularly pleased that three areas have been raised, namely: equal pay for equal work that we have raised the area of equality in decision-making and the issues of women's dignity and the elimination of domestic violence. and now to show that the wage gap for the same job across the european union is 17.5% to the detriment of women is an important statement. i am glad that the rapporteurs are addressing their proposals to both the commission and the member states. we wanted to check in my country, which is governed by the liberal-chadian coalition, what the percentage of variation is, and the government agency refused such information, saying that in thirty days they could possibly give an answer. i would also like to draw attention to the advantages of the postulate of reducing the gender gap in pension benefits. what is often offered to us, also from experience? increasing the retirement age for women, or especially for women, without showing what the difference in the level of pension will be. i also share the concern that the economic crisis and budget cuts are exacerbating the problem. why would you do that? what are we offering? less day care, less day care, school closures, reduced community services, and zero in the same job for equal pay. it is also a good document, and i will be happy to support it. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8)).)
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. a little bit. the ambassador called me to the board and provoked me to ask you a question. i would like to ask you, in that case, have you seen the latest eurostat data which was published on 17 february? there are data that also apply to our country, poland, where we see that when it comes to equality in work and wages, it has fallen from 10% to 2% and today it is in poland that it is the lowest in europe.
the answer is the blue card. thank you very much, madam ambassador, for your question! yes, i saw it. so i went to the central bureau of statistics to confirm this, but they refused, saying that this is not information that the government agenda can sign.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. women's participation in political decision-making is increasing year by year, but they still do not participate in political life to the same extent as men. in the european union, on average, one in five members of national parliaments is a woman. equal opportunities for women and men to participate in political life is indisputably one of the foundations of democracy. i think it is important to inspire women to become more involved in politics, and i therefore welcome the various proposals for incentives and facilities that mrs pietikäinen has put forward in her report. preferential treatment in filling appointed positions, casting ballots and recruiting for management positions is a good step towards greater participation of women in public life. however, we must not forget that it is also important to take all measures to enable women to effectively combine different roles so that their involvement in politics does not have a negative impact on their family life. therefore, in order to increase the participation of women in politics in a real way, we cannot forget about the necessary measures to enable them to reconcile their professional and family life. it is also worth mentioning the problem of gender pay gap, which we have been dealing with for years at different levels of employment. the fact that little has changed in the many years since the introduction of the law on non-discrimination in this area shows that effective equality between women and men will not be achieved without a particular commitment on the part of the member states. let us remember that lower wages for women mean lower pensions and a greater risk of poverty. it's time to change that. it is time for the slogan 'equal work, equal pay' to become a reality.
for many years, both the union and the member states have been taking a number of actions to combat discrimination against women in the labour market. however, the measures taken do not produce the expected results. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women in management positions. i doubt that european regulations will have the desired effect. the experience of the member states shows that the best results have been achieved in those countries where work at the grassroots level has been undertaken, creating conditions which facilitate women's return to work after the birth of a child and conditions which favour the combination of family and professional responsibilities. i think we should focus on mentoring or promote a partnership model of family where domestic duties are carried out by both women and men, but above all facilitate the use of european funds to develop infrastructure that allows women to reconcile domestic duties with work. this latter point is particularly important to bear in mind when negotiating the mff and the new shape of cohesion policy. this will improve the situation of women and contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the adoption of the reports by sirpa pietikäinen and sophii in't veld is of great importance for the fight for equality between women and men in the eu countries. this applies to all levels of government, whether local, national or european parliamentary elections. i am glad to see that in some cases we are even talking about equal representation, i.e. 50%, in the key bodies of parliament. both reports clearly set out the direction we should take, but we must pay particular attention to the implementation of the proposals contained therein. prepare roadmaps for the implementation of the reports and monitor these actions. by adopting them in the european parliament, we must ensure that our institution sets an example for others. the political groups should include the president and vice-presidents of parliament, as well as the presidents and vice-presidents of committees. we also need to ensure gender balance in the political groups, including the european people's party. in the last election, out of the 22 candidates for the most important positions in our group, only three were women. i think we should be much more than that, and we need to make sure that this doesn't happen again in the next term. i am glad that in one of the reports poland is mentioned as a positive example of a country that has introduced a quota system in elections. we haven't achieved the results we want yet, but i think it's going to take time for the legislation to change the reality.
in writing. i fully support the resolution on equality between women and men in the european union 2011 this is a very important report that shows that, despite the progress that has been made, women are still discriminated against in all areas of social, economic and political life. the differences are in political participation, career advancement opportunities, wage inequality, the risk of unemployment. until we eliminate these differences, there will be no true equality between women and men. in particular, i draw attention to violence against women, which is a major obstacle to equality between women and men and one of the most widespread violations of human rights. in this context, i call on the european commission to: • prepare a directive on preventing and combating all forms of violence against women; • declare 2014 the european year against violence against women by men. it is also important that the council of europe convention of 11 may 2011 on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence is signed and ratified by the european union and all member states as soon as possible. i would like to draw particular attention to paragraph 47 of the resolution, which stresses that all women must have control over their sexual and reproductive rights, including access to affordable and high quality contraception! i call on all member states to implement this provision effectively.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. we are often accused of discussing matters which are far removed from the problems which citizens face on a daily basis, and unfortunately we are right. or we discuss matters where the european institutions have no legislative power. today, at this moment, we can say that we are talking about a matter that is of tremendous importance and very important to the citizens. and this document will serve them right. and it's going to help them in situations like this where it's very difficult by its very nature because when you lose someone close to you, it's already a very dramatic situation and then going into the maze of regulations to deal with the loss of a dead loved one is also a path through agony. this regulation, which we have been working on, and in particular our friend kurt lechner, for whom i am very grateful, will allow both future heirs and future heirs to have much greater legal certainty in navigating the maze of regulations. this is a perfect example of the european union's legislative action, which, without going into national law, without changing it - and the law of succession is very different in each of the member states - builds a legal bridge to make life easier for our citizens, who are scattered in different countries, which are not their home countries. the establishment of a european certificate of succession will make it possible to prove the succession status of the administrator or the heir or the executor of the will without any unnecessary formalities. this report, which took kurt lechner over two and a half years to produce, with the excellent cooperation of the european commission and successive presidencies, is certainly worthwhile. it is noteworthy that it required considerable skill to reconcile such a wide variety of legislation, the provisions of which in the area of succession often refer to deeply rooted traditions. the commission and our rapporteur have both been up to the task, and this should be emphasized and respected. i would also point out that conflict-of-law rules have been established in the event of failure to choose the future law under which the inheritance is to be divided. that's important too. i would like to conclude, mr president, by referring to one important point. well, citizens can only benefit from this right if they are well informed about it. i therefore appeal to the commission and to the governments of the member states to ensure that the information is properly provided.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating one of those issues, and in looking at it we see how the european union can be needed by ordinary people, ordinary citizens. probate is one of those areas of law that involves most people, almost everyone. there may be some people who don't accumulate any wealth in their lifetime - i don't know whether to sympathize with them or congratulate them - but the vast majority of people leave a legacy behind and, sooner or later, this problem with their inheritance arises. mr fechner's proposal is worthy of respect and appreciation, indeed a great deal of work has been done. the commission proposal, as worked out by parliament, is good for people and makes probate easier. the principle of the admissibility of judgments, the principle of the possibility of choosing the legal regime under which succession takes place, is particularly relevant, particularly important. and it's a really great achievement, and i'd like to pay tribute to mr. lechner for the work he's done. i think that the regulations contained in this regulation will help european citizens to organize their inheritance rights without unnecessary formalities, without unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. the situation will be clear, it is known on what principles these, sometimes complicated, international, interstate relations in the field of inheritance law will be resolved. thank you very much and congratulations to the rapporteur!
the author's deputy. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you get away with this. as a member of the legal affairs committee, it is natural that i should be confronted with a number of draft legislation on a daily basis, particularly in the fields of international civil law, commercial law and the succession law matters we have just discussed. i am also fully aware that when these draft laws become law, they will require the representatives of the judiciary - mainly judges - to have knowledge of eu law and the legal systems of other member states. for a long time now, the members of the legal affairs committee, mainly through the work of our colleague mr luigi berlinguer, have attached great importance to all kinds of training to improve the knowledge of the judicial staff in the countries of the european union, since they are the ones who apply eu legislation in practice. of course, they will be dealing with the situation more and more directly, because there will be more and more regulations that affect us. the european parliament and the council have adopted a number of legislative acts on the subject of the right to freedom of movement for workers. the entire justice system needs to train its employees. they cannot obscure the problems we have today and the problems we have to face. they are absolutely necessary, i would say even mandatory. in the question to the european commission, written by juri committee chair klaus-heiner lehne and libe committee chair lópez aguilar, we would like to express our concern about the implementation of the ambitious plan to have at least half of the judicial staff in the european union participate in various types of training by 2020. we ask how to strengthen the existing training structures and platforms for the exchange of experience between judges and prosecutors and to what extent the european parliament will be involved in these important issues. since the beginning of the stockholm programme, we have been talking about the need to build a european legal culture. all the eu institutions - the council, parliament and commission - seem to be absolutely clear about the importance of these training courses when they declare their support. the training of judicial staff is one of the main priorities of the 2014-2020 justice programme. but to communicate effectively, you literally need to have a common language, and so it's also important to improve the curricula of law schools.
mr. chairman, please! equal pay for men and women for equal work is one of the most important elements in the fight against discrimination. it is a demand for equal opportunities for men and women in employment. despite the principle of equal treatment in pay already being enshrined in the treaty of rome and a number of measures taken to combat this problem, the pay gap remains relatively high to this day. the european average is currently 16.5%. reality shows that there is no one golden mean. all countries declare their willingness to tackle employment inequalities, but there is still much to be done. i therefore believe that pressure on member states to make their policies more effective should be increased. we should collect good practice and take it to the european level. i hope that by 2013 the european commission will justify the poor implementation of the provisions of the directive on equal treatment for men and women in matters of pay and propose concrete actions. thank you so much!
mr. chairman, please! recently, europe has been informed about the activities of the dutch freedom party and its leader geert wilders, who has created a special website encouraging citizens to file complaints, or rather reports, about people employed in the netherlands from outside the netherlands. the main defendants, due to the number of employees present in the netherlands, are poles who work there - and i stress this - legally in numerous dutch companies. they are accused of taking jobs, and they are also accused of taking social assistance, and so in fact according to information from dutch banks, poles working in the netherlands contribute 0.3% of the dutch gdp, which is almost 2 billion euros. to the ambassadors of many countries, including the polish ambassador, responding to these outrageous speeches, wilders says: "mind your own business". i am disappointed that dutch prime minister mark rutte is silent, even though half the dutch public expects the dutch prime minister to distance himself from this full-blown action phobia.
mr. chairman, please! we have a problem as the ecr with voting on this report because there are a few things that are worth remembering and acknowledging, such as the recognition of qualifications. that's actually something we're interested in. we welcomed the announcement of cooperation with universities in third countries, especially those from the eastern partnership. these are the things that are good in mr berlinguer's report and we would like to support them. but it did find a few things that were of concern to us. the rapporteur spoke of the value of supporting the poorest sections of society to study, to continue the education process. at the same time, the report calls for a mandatory period of study at a non-german university. well, that's a nice thing, of course, but it's obviously going to increase the cost of something like that. we also disagree with the unification of the curriculum, because it should be a university issue, and with the increase in costs and a true sense of european citizenship. thank you very much and sorry for the extension!
i would like to congratulate my colleague on this report. we've been discussing the bologna trial for years. it's good that we're evaluating him. what we want to achieve, and what is already in place, is of course to force greater student mobility. mobility is the most important thing right now, because we have an open labour market right now and we are already competing across the european market. there are many examples: hundreds of thousands of polish students, graduates are feeding the labour markets in europe. he's doing very well in the job market because of that mobility. it seems that linking the bologna process to the erasmus issue, to the issue of recognition of qualifications, is the most important thing. employability can be achieved by having the bologna process monitored by us. of course, it is important to be flexible in this, because not all universities can be compared on the same basis, for example, music schools. i would therefore like to support this report, knowing that the bologna process requires constant monitoring.
in writing. the draft resolution draws attention to very important issues. among other things, the need to improve mobility and the exchange of students and academic staff between european universities. it also recognises the important problem of mutual recognition of credits and their conversion into grades, the need to integrate erasmus into this system and the need for mutual recognition of university qualifications and diplomas. finally, it provides an opportunity to facilitate the transfer of documents, scholarships and student loans between universities. these proposals, if they were to be implemented, would make a significant contribution to removing the barriers which still prevent full freedom of movement between countries for the purpose of study. they would also make graduates more competitive on the european labour market. such actions are certainly worth supporting. i therefore call on the commission to monitor the impact of the bologna process and to encourage member states and higher education institutions to introduce solutions to improve student mobility and to create common education systems.
mr president, i think time flies quicker than the councils are able to meet. on the economic crisis nearly everything has been said but actions – as we witness here – are not considered to be sufficient. we obviously need both consolidation and growth, but we should practise growth and not preach. you can decree austerity and sanctions but you cannot decree growth. this debate reminds me of the realsozialismus debates and decreeing growth in the so-called socialist countries. first we have to mutualise debt and then to create growth bonds – not stability, not project, but growth bonds – using the eib eif facility. but we tend to forget the context of the crisis which is, first, collective fatigue, the fading away of political will and a rise in national egoism. secondly, nationalistic sentiments, such as the wilders internet site, appear along with the risk of spreading this nationalism all over europe in this time of crisis, violating the fundamental values and freedom of movement in the european union. third comes the collateral damage this crisis is doing to foreign policy, which is getting weaker and weaker, and to the risk of schengen being dismantled. the fourth risk, in this context, is double standards being applied. greece: an admirable saving operation to be applauded, not only for economic reasons but on the grounds of solidarity and also for geopolitical reasons, because greece is the eastern flank of the union – but the worst economic performer in the union today. at the same time we have a different standard being applied to hungary, which, having being left by the socialist government of gyurcsány with an economy in a catastrophic state, has made courageous efforts to reduce debt and has been blindly punished by president barroso’s commission. today spain is getting concessions to lower its deficit target: 0.25 for hungary is punished while a +1.4 deficit target for spain is rewarded. what signal does this send to the sinners and the reformers? is it the difference between being in the euro area and outside? this is not a coherent policy.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the last european council summit seemed to be a success. despite the opposition of two countries, the fiscal pact was signed, which is to become an important element of the economic stability of european countries. the fiscal compact is very often criticized as a late solution, but also as insufficient. although the terms of the agreement are not perfect, it has nonetheless allowed for further stabilisation of markets and calming of investor sentiment. the most important task facing us today is to implement the provisions of the pact and to respect the community principle which we have so vigorously defended. in addition, it is also important to consider how the provisions of article 12 will be implemented, i.e. whether the non-euro area signatory countries will actually be heard at the eurogroup summits. the decision by the euro area members to mobilise part of the second bailout package for greece to cover current expenditure and to start the process of reducing greek debt may also be of benefit. unfortunately, the big problem is that many of the measures taken to save the greek economy do not have the support of the majority of the population. we must not forget that precautionary measures alone are not enough and sooner or later greece will have to focus on investments that stimulate growth and employment.
in writing. what is the main conclusion of the long-running fight against the crisis and the attempts to achieve growth and employment? the measures that are being taken, although they are right and are moving in the right direction, are still too late and too shallow. the crisis can only be overcome by structural and comprehensive reforms, undertaken quickly and, of course, with the right preparation. however, it is difficult to fight the crisis and to implement serious reforms if the politicians in power are guided primarily by the interests of their own groups in the upcoming election campaigns. we spend too much time on the problems of division of powers, separation of powers in the euro area, when in reality it is about maintaining the dominance of some eu countries and defending the interests of their countries and banks. economic policy coordination was possible on the basis of earlier provisions, for example the stabilisation and growth pact, but the will and determination were lacking. the six-pack adopted had to be reinforced by a so-called two-pack in order to be fully effective. what will be the next steps? is the fiscal pact enough? there is still no procedure for a country to leave the euro area or be excluded by the other euro area countries if it does not act in accordance with the agreed arrangements or does not implement certain reforms. it is good that the european central bank, as the euro area's main financial institution, has taken active action, and that commissioner barnier is doing an exceptional job of strengthening the single market.
it is worth making it clear that it is thanks to this derogation - the derogation we are talking about today - that the european globalisation adjustment fund has become one of the european union's most widely used tools to mitigate the effects of the economic crisis. i believe that this fund is an expression of the community's budgetary solidarity with the workers who have been made redundant. i am very surprised at the reluctance of some member states to extend this emergency derogation. i am all the more surprised that it is the citizens of those countries which are now blocking the extension of the derogation who have benefited from the european globalisation adjustment fund. i would also like to ask the minister how he sees the conversation, the debate on the new regulation after 2013 in the context of such a blocking minority. i hope, of course, that the danish presidency will eventually be able to reach a compromise on the question of the fund and persuade the council to reconsider the matter, this time in a positive way. and so far, it would be good to have detailed doubts, concerns and reasons why these blocking member states do not want to extend the emergency derogation, because it is not, at least for me, clear. and perhaps there are reasons, even convincing ones, but we are not always aware of them, because the minister has mentioned one of them, namely that in some member states, in the presumption of those blocking, there are other mechanisms for helping the workers who are made redundant. perhaps, but the question is: why are these countries still seeking - and doing so effectively - funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund? these doubts in your opening remarks have not been clarified, and i hope we will find out as members of parliament soon. thank you so much! (the speaker agrees to answer the question put in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – your question is fully justified. this is exactly the question i am asking the danish presidency because the danish presidency is leading these talks and it must know for what reasons those countries are objecting. the list also is not a mystery; some of the countries were mentioned but in two minutes i do not think it is my task to repeat the minutes of the council’s meetings.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i hereby consent to the conclusion of an agreement on mutual legal assistance with norway and iceland. the unification of criminal procedure, also in relation to european countries outside the community, is in the interest of the security of citizens. the example of anders breivik shows that even in neighbouring countries with a stable political and economic situation, the threat of domestic terrorism is still possible. the investigation, in this particular case alone, required extensive cooperation from norway with other european countries, including poland. the agreement will, inter alia, allow for the interviewing of witnesses, experts and accused persons via videoconferencing, which will significantly improve the criminal procedure conducted by the police in different countries. i therefore look forward to closer cooperation in the fight against crime with the countries that are part of the schengen area.
in writing. − the basic idea of the 2000 convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters and the protocol annexed thereto is to enable member states to take action against persons in criminal proceedings in the territory of other member states and to enable those persons to participate actively in those proceedings in order to protect their interests or to assert their rights. these acts are therefore an essential element in shaping an area of freedom, security and justice. the convention and the protocol define the legal framework within which the competent authorities of the member states conducting the proceedings may operate; they lay down the procedural conditions and the conditions for their initiation. those tools increase the effectiveness of the enforcement of liability for infringements and consequently provide a higher guarantee of the rule of law and the protection of the interests of persons in the area covered by those regulations. they also facilitate the exercise of the right to a trial. extending their effectiveness to all member states and eu-aligned countries, as well as candidate countries, is a natural expression of acceptance of the common idea of an area of freedom, security and justice. the contract presented is the next formal step in its implementation. there is no question about its correctness.
in writing. − i am in favour of the consent procedure to conclude the agreement between the eu and iceland and norway on the application of certain provisions of the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and the 2001 protocol. this is an important agreement since it is aimed at improving judicial cooperation between the eu member states and norway and iceland. i am confident that many of its provisions – such as those on hearing of witnesses, experts and accused persons by telephone or video conference, controlled deliveries, covert investigations and joint investigation teams and requests for information on banking transactions, bank accounts and their monitoring to combat translational and organised crime – will increase our security and have a positive impact on our efforts to fight crime.
in writing. − the increasing mobility of eu citizens means that they face many difficulties in exercising their inheritance rights abroad. the succession laws of the member states are very diverse and linked to local traditions, which makes cross-border proceedings extremely complex and incomprehensible for the parties. the eu has 27 different succession law systems and some 450 000 succession proceedings of an international nature are brought each year. it is important to create a single, transparent procedural system to make it easier for europeans to enforce their inheritance rights. the report on the regulation establishing common rules governing inheritance in the eu and the creation of a european certificate of succession is a very complex and ambitious project. it will not affect national legislation but will provide a facilitation for persons holding assets in more than one member state. statistics show that about 1.5% of the population of the member states of the union are citizens of other community countries; they will be able to decide, on the basis of the new rules, in which country their inheritance should be disposed of in the future. moreover, the introduction of a european certificate of succession, which will constitute proof of a specific status of heir recognised in all member states, will make it easier for the holder to enforce his rights, resulting in a shorter and less costly procedure. i congratulate the rapporteur and hope that these new legal mechanisms will facilitate a practice which often presents many problems with different procedures and formalities, which are associated with additional stress for citizens in such difficult times for them.
in writing. − cross-border inheritance issues have not been regulated at eu level, which has created many difficulties for those who inherit property. both substantive law and the rules on jurisdiction and applicable law vary considerably between member states, and i therefore welcome the european commission's proposal. issues such as the adoption of a broad definition of inheritance, a broad concept of court, the regulation of court jurisdiction and the introduction of a uniform statute of succession are important solutions that will facilitate cross-border inheritance. progress is also being made with the introduction of the recognition of documents of importance to succession matters and the institution of the european certificate of succession, which aims to speed up the examination of international succession cases. i welcome the report and am pleased that the commission has taken up most of the solutions proposed by parliament as early as 2006 in its resolution with recommendations to the commission on succession and wills. the proposal will give citizens in the european union a guarantee of clarity and legal certainty and a clear basis for the design of their inheritance. these rules will enable europeans to better enjoy their rights in the internal market. legal clarity and legal certainty are the most important elements that should be guaranteed in the field of succession law. the regulation strengthens these aspects, provides facilities for citizens and guarantees benefits for the european union.
in writing. - the ratio legis of the draft regulation is to remove all obstacles to the free movement of persons and their rights resulting from the particular differences in succession systems in the member states. the proposed regulations are intended to increase legal certainty for both the testator and the beneficiary. the regulation is intended to satisfy the model of a uniform status of succession, whereby a single succession, irrespective of the nature of the property and its location, is governed by a single legal regime, the law of the choice of the testator. this avoids the fragmentation of the estate and the difficulty of enforcing succession rights on the basis of different legal regulations. at the same time, it is necessary to consider whether the proposal submitted fully implements the declared possibility of securing assets in the event of death. the institutions of the choice of law for the settlement of succession matters in conjunction with the european certificate of succession undoubtedly allow such security. however, this is a formal aspect of the regulation, which is reduced to its incorporation into the legal system. he has great potential. however, it depends on the material aspect, which is the actual availability of the facilities to the beneficiaries. we need to think about how to popularize the behaviors we've described in these standards. that's the whole difficulty of design regulation. in addition to creating legal tools, the right people must be persuaded to use them.
in writing. − although i am aware of the obvious difficulties and legal uncertainties that this proposal aims to resolve (in terms of simplifying the legal position for citizens in europe by allowing the management of estates of deceased persons where these cover more than one member state to be based upon the law of only one jurisdiction), my abstention in the vote concerned is due to the fact that this regulation presents a certain difficulty which is, mainly, that due to the haste in which negotiations have been concluded in council and with parliament, concerns still exist with the solution found for the varying practices across the member states dealing with administration of the deceased’s estate.
in writing. −equality between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. it is guaranteed by a series of legal regulations aimed at equalising employment levels, equal pay, working hours, which, unfortunately, are not always respected in practice. this is due to deeply rooted traditional social divisions between women and men in societies, which can be gradually changed, for example through social media campaigns targeting gender equality. discrimination against women is particularly pronounced in the case of equal pay for equal work, and it should be noted that women have more difficulty reconciling work and family life. a fair policy of equality between women and men should be of fundamental importance not only in the social but also in the economic sense, as it leads to a process of expanding the productive capacity of the sector concerned and thus to an increase in the employment rate and greater competition on the labour market.
in writing. - fellow workers! although there is more and more discussion, action and efforts to change the situation of women in the european union, traditional gender roles, taboos and stereotypes still largely prevent visible and far-reaching change. in fields such as economics and politics, men still occupy the highest positions. it should therefore be underlined that equality between women and men is a matter of great importance for the sustainable achievement of economic growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. i would like to express my support for reducing the gender pay gap, for greater participation of women in decision-making at all levels and for the fight against gender-based discrimination and violence. i also think we should pay more attention to countries outside the european union where women have fewer rights or none at all. i therefore support the ep resolution on equality between women and men in the eu and voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. - this report is feminist bigotry. the european treaties have never given the european union the right to interfere with the family law, labour law or social security law of the member states, especially in the context of mutual recognition of homosexual unions. the pressure to legalise abortion in europe is contrary to treaty law. the report adopted today limits confidence in the process of european integration. such interpretations of the charter of fundamental rights clearly show that our concerns about the role of the charter were fully justified. what the left doesn't understand is that the member states never gave the european union the authority to do abortion. the culmination of this feminist bigotry is calling on religious leaders to change their views on the protection of human life from conception or contraception. it smells like a totalitarian crackdown on religious freedom and free speech.
in writing. − although this ini report seeks to increase the number of women in political life and the aim of this report is commendable, my group is unable to support the report’s content. i do not agree with the report’s intent to create targets and quotas which member states would have to impose on national political parties. although i am not against national governments, political parties, and companies setting quotas at the national level (if they chose to do so), i am not in favour of targets and quotas being established at the eu level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on women in political decision-making. the number of women active in politics is increasing, and women's issues are increasingly featured in the agendas of political parties. yet women do not have parity in political decision-making. in eu countries, on average, only one in four members of national parliaments and governments is a woman; in the business world, the ratio of women to men is lower at every level of decision-making; the situation is similar in the science and research sector. the gender imbalances in the sector are recognised as a major obstacle to achieving greater competitiveness and maximising the potential of the science sector on a global scale. the need for a balanced representation of women and men is not just a feminist political slogan, but a necessity. without parity, there can be no effective, efficient policy. equal participation of women and men leads to better performance in public life, better, more balanced decisions. only greater participation of women in politics can ensure the proper structure of state and local government spending, because, contrary to appearances, the budget has a gender. diversity contributes to the quality of decision-making: diversity of opinions, of policy-making styles, of ideas. it cannot be achieved without adequate participation of the various groups in the population, including, above all, equal participation of women.
in writing. - in today's indirect democracy, it is really difficult to accept the average 24% participation of women in the national parliaments of the member states. there are still too many reasons for this disturbing phenomenon. women's political participation is hindered by often discriminatory party nomination procedures, which bar women from entering politics from the outset. it is extremely difficult to reconcile public life with family life, for which women still bear the greatest responsibility. we need to change that, we need to take action to promote women's participation in politics, for the good of all of us. the legal amounts are undoubtedly a catalyst for changes in our society, especially those related to the perception of the social role of women. we need to hit a 30% milestone. when the proportion of women in parliament, the board of directors or any other organisational unit exceeds 30%, women are treated equally, because at 30% the gender gap disappears.
in writing. − in addition to the creation of cross-border cooperatives, the involvement of employees in the decision-making processes of european cooperatives is one of the main objectives of their introduction into the legal system. it is a step forward in the cooperatives' functioning as agents for the needs of their members and users. i am very surprised by the low level of implementation of the rules governing this commitment, especially in countries with a long and rich tradition of cooperatives. this is all the more so as european cooperatives offer the potential for significant economic development by combining the values of traditional cooperative participation and employee involvement. in the absence of any implementation of the relevant legislation, it is not surprising that a small number of cooperatives and groups of their employees have been set up. cooperatives as such, and european cooperatives in particular, are a remedy in times of crisis, as evidenced by their increased turnover, lower than other legal entities bankruptcy and redundancy rates. it should be stressed that the development of european cooperatives in border areas will deepen their economic integration and allow for faster development. the introduction of the european cooperative institutions into the legal system is an institutional expression of the need to link the activities of individual natural and legal persons facing financial problems with the capital guaranteed by the investor members.
in writing. − i am not opposed to sces in principle and favour a simplification and clarification of their statute; however, i have reservations concerning notions that cooperatives are a key driver for social innovation and that a sce is a milestone in the recognition of the cooperative business model at eu level. also, for the time being, i do not see a need for urgent improvements within the commission in terms of organisation and the resources devoted to the social economy. for these reasons, i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. − there are still barriers to moving to study or work abroad. they hamper the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of creating a knowledge-based and innovation-driven economy. the bologna system has made it possible to speak of european higher education, and i regard it as a major achievement on the road to the compatibility of education systems in europe. the bologna process is a challenge because it has brought about enormous change. the education reform not only allowed students to benefit from the educational programs of foreign universities, but also increased the social role of universities. it is now important to strengthen the bologna system so that the requirement that a student studying at a university has the right to obtain a diploma and that his qualifications are recognised throughout the eu can be fully realised. in other words, an environment should be created that is conducive to learning and to the mobility of students. strengthening and advancing the bologna process, in particular through the recognition of qualifications, harmonisation of academic standards and promotion of mobility, are appropriate means to achieve this. i am therefore pleased that in the report adopted today, meps called for a fuller involvement of the eu, national and all key actors in the bologna process. the subsequent commitments to be made by member states in relation to the bologna process should be specific and aim at promoting the full implementation of the process.
in writing. − i share the position of my group that education is primarily the responsibility of the member states and that diverse and varied approaches to education are the foundations of cooperation in the field of the european higher education area. although i could support cooperation with third-country universities or progress toward the establishment of an effective higher education area for countries involved in the eastern partnership, the report proposes several measures which are of concern to me, notably, the call on members states and the eu to determine whether courses of study could include a compulsory training period to be completed at a university in a member state other than the student’s home country. such policies should remain within the competence of the member states. for this reason, i have voted against it.
in writing. − despite support for the bologna process and some paragraphs of mr berlinguer's report, i voted against the whole report, because in several places it calls for the harmonisation of academic standards (i think education should remain a matter for the member states) and for financial support for the agreement on a common curriculum basis. the report also calls on the member states and the union to determine whether courses of study could include a compulsory period of study at a non-native-speaking university, which the student would have to complete. this should not be regulated so far, but should be entirely voluntary.
in writing. in voting for this report, i welcome the efficiency of the rapporteur who, in a position of compromise, was able to resolve all the conflicts that could have arisen from the report, making it possible to obtain a clear agreement on increasing funding for public and private universities. focusing mainly on proposals on student mobility, recognition of qualifications and the certification framework, quality assurance, social aspects, vocational integration and the bachelor's degree, and improving cooperation between the higher education and research sectors in europe, the report puts the recognition of a national degree at european level at the heart of the debate. the creation of an open area of higher education in europe becomes the broader institutional framework within which the ambitious project launched with the bologna process must be integrated.
in writing. −the removal of barriers to students' studying in all eu countries is one of the european union's greatest achievements. an achievement that directly impacts the lives of millions of europeans. like the schengen area, the bologna process is the most effective showcase for european integration. the report does however point out that there is still a lot to be done to achieve the bologna process's main objective. these are: mutual recognition of diplomas, mutual recognition of qualifications, standardisation of curricula at primary level. i also welcome the rapporteur's emphasis on the social dimension of the bologna process. the union must give the utmost importance to equitable access and access to higher education at all levels. access to education cannot be dependent on the financial, cultural and social capital of the families from which young europeans come. in view of all the above, i have decided to support the report on the contribution of the european institutions to the consolidation and progress of the bologna process.
in writing. − the bologna process has been vital in making student, researcher and teacher mobility in the eu possible. nevertheless, the numbers of those who study or teach in another member state are still very low. targeted support is needed from the eu institutions to assist member states and higher education institutions to meet bologna requirements. renewed efforts by education institutions and national organisations themselves are also essential in implementing reforms needed to close implementation gaps so that a true european higher education area becomes a reality. problems with the mutual recognition of academic qualifications, the calculation of ects and grades, core curricula, the recognition of erasmus and practical experience gained abroad continue to act as barriers to students wishing to study in another eu member state. i fully endorse mr berlinguer's report. eu support for the bologna process will ensure we meet the eu2020 goals for jobs and growth, as mobility among students will lead to greater labour mobility. the revision of the professional qualifications directive will complement the bologna process by providing assurances that qualifications gained in another member state will be recognised across the eu.
in writing. − i have voted in favour because i believe that the need for reliable and independent statistics has been highlighted by the financial crisis. furthermore, reforms to economic governance in the eu have also necessitated statistical information as a tool for monitoring potential problems and imbalances. i fully agree that there is a need to guarantee the independence of national statistical bodies from political interference and the need to ensure proper verification of statistics.
in writing. - i strongly support the report on quality management in european statistics. this is one of the conditions for increased eu surveillance of national budgets. we have had bad experiences with clear examples of falsifying statistics on the amount of public debt, as happened in greece. it is therefore right that eurostat, which has existed since 1953, should be given new powers. the changes should improve the situation in two spheres. first, users of statistics will receive more accurate and timely data. secondly, it will improve the accessibility and comprehensibility of statistics for citizens. the report therefore deserves our support.
blue-card question. – madam president, my question to mr verhofstadt is why does he refer only to the very important aspect of it, which is xenophobic racism, but does not refer to the data protection aspect? i recall how fiercely he attacked prime minister orbán on one of the three legislative issues in this chamber on data protection. what is happening in the netherlands is a violation of the data protection directive of 1995, just as much as it was invoked vis-à-vis the hungarian prime minister. could he please apply the same standard?
on behalf of the efd group. there is a beautiful town in the netherlands called maastricht. the treaty on european union was signed in maastricht on 7 february 1992. one of its main provisions was the creation of an area without internal borders. it is the freedom to travel, the freedom to choose the country where you want to live, where you want to work, that has been one of the foundations of the european union's success. it is all the more regrettable that it is in the netherlands that these fundamental principles of the european union have been so flagrantly violated. geert wilders' pvv party website is one such violation, where complaints about the behaviour of central and eastern european immigrants can be posted with impunity. i want to make it clear that i have nothing against labelling the actions of thieves, hooligans, vandals or bandits, but because they are thieves, hooligans, vandals or bandits, and not because they are poles, romanians, bulgarians or representatives of any other nationality. i want to make it clear that this portal is awakening evil demons. it brings up the notion of ethnic exclusion and second-class, which we're familiar with from 20th-century dramas. i come from a country where the germans once murdered six million people, and in some places there were signs that said nur für deutsche only for germans. will we soon see dutch-only cards in the netherlands? i ask because the dutch government's lack of a strong response to this matter is an absolute scandal. i understand that the dutch prime minister is a hostage of the freedom party, but he has no political interest on which to sacrifice the fundamental values of the european union. this portal violates three directives: anti-discrimination, free movement of persons, protection of personal data. i demand a strong reaction from the european parliament and as a pole and as a member of the polish parliament - a country that shed blood for the liberation of the netherlands at arnhem in the person of gen. macek or sosabowski - i demand that the european parliament unequivocally condemn this scandalous portal and put pressure on the dutch government to force the dutch government to close this portal. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. i fully agree with what you said and i wanted to ask you a question because you are a member of a group in the european parliament whose members have made very similar anti-polish statements in the united kingdom. will you do something to ensure that the ukip party with which you are associated today does not stir up anti-polish sentiment in britain?
answer the question asked according to the 'blue card' principle. thank you for your question and i can say that i have already done something to defend this sphere of values that the member of parliament is talking about. it was the decision of my group, my national delegation in the group i am in, the decision of solidarity poland, that vetoed the admission to the efd of a member from the netherlands, who could not disconnect from this portal. it was my life, my conduct, that proved that i would uphold the values that the lord spoke of.
blue-card question. – mrs zijlstra, do you know what the contribution of the migrant community to your gdp is? 0.3%. do you know how much they pay in taxes? eur 1.1 billion, much more than they take from your social coffers. do you know what is the unemployment rate among migrant workers? 1%. much less, five or six times less, than on average in the netherlands. so you are profiting from this migrant work, not the other way round. if you intend to export your goods and banks, you have to accept the workforce and the freedom of movement.
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. this portal not only exists, but it provokes aggression, increases aggression towards poles living in the netherlands. we see brutal attacks on people every day at this point. and i wanted to ask you if you accept the existence of a portal that is itself a manifestation of aggression against particular nations, and all the actions that it provokes.
in writing. i want to express my concern about the launch of a website by the pvv party that allows complaints to be made about people from central and eastern europe living and working in the netherlands. this website is contrary to the european principles of freedom. citizens, in accordance with articles 15 and 45 of the charter of fundamental rights, have the right to freedom of movement, employment and study. the portal you created is contrary to the principles of dialogue. he's one-sided and subjective in his assessment. it targets a specific group of people directly and encourages hate speech. it should not be forgotten that central and eastern european citizens working in the netherlands also have a part to play in the construction of the dutch economy. as a pole and a european citizen, familiar with its history, i would like to emphasize that many polish soldiers died for the freedom of the netherlands during the second world war. for example, the soldiers of general stanisław maczek of the 1st armoured division, who after heavy fighting liberated many dutch cities (such as breda) without losses among the civilian population, should be mentioned. the inhabitants did not spare the poles words of appreciation and gestures of gratitude for the use of a thoughtful, unobtrusive tactic for their homes and monuments. the windows of dutch houses had polish inscriptions saying "thank you, poles". we are building a europe where all citizens should be treated equally, and i call for this under articles 20 and 21 of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. i think that in expressing my indignation at the content posted on the website of the dutch party for freedom (pvv), i will give my opinion on this matter not only to the epp but also to the vast majority of members of parliament. mr wilders and his party argue that the increase in the number of workers from the new member states of the union is causing an increase in crime and a deterioration in the standard of living in the netherlands. but he ignores the fact that this group often takes on the necessary work that the dutch are reluctant to do. it is immigrants who contribute significantly to the dutch gdp. calling on citizens to write reports on central and eastern european wage earners is not only a manifestation of abhorrent discrimination, but also of political immaturity. if we want to build a common international order such as the eu, the introduction of divisions based on negative stereotypes within the union is either a lack of understanding of what the eu really is and should become, or a deliberate act to try to break it down centrally. whatever the reprehensible motives, it is high time that mr wilders and other politicians who build support on nationalist and xenophobic slogans understand that the eu has no chance of continuing to exist in a stable way unless it speaks with one voice on key issues such as tolerance and equal opportunities for employment. this is in the interests of both countries, poland and the netherlands.
i'm directing my questions to commissioner andor and commissioner barnier. some countries that experienced a sharp economic collapse at the onset of the global economic crisis are returning to growth, while others are still struggling to cope with their debt problems. does the commission study the cases of countries emerging from crisis in order to draw on their experience in other countries? what steps does the commission intend to take to combine austerity measures with measures to stimulate growth and employment? last week, commissioner andor took part in a public hearing of the epp group which i organised, where we discussed, among other things, the role of social investment in overcoming the crisis. how does the commission assess the role of social investment in europe's economic growth path?
but i haven't heard from commissioner andor yet.
is it possible, then, to prepare such recommendations for the member states in the form of the 'six pack' and 'six social investment pack's', following the example of the 'six pack' and 'two economic pack's'?
i would like to say that i am very sorry that the danish presidency is not here. i don't know what the reason for these absences is. i hope that the danish presidency, using modern methods and technology, will listen to us via the internet or otherwise. i am sure that many of the arguments that will be made here will be repeated in our negotiations that await us this year. i believe that europe needs investment for growth. in times of crisis, we need to strengthen the competitiveness and innovation of european economies, but also - and this is very important - to support small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are the ones that create new jobs. i would also like to reiterate what we often discuss in other programmes, other eu policies, namely the importance of supporting young europeans in finding their first job. at the same time, young europeans with higher education levels are having more and more difficulty finding a place on the labour market, finding employment. i am convinced that the catalyst for investment in jobs and growth is the european union budget. it is therefore very important that we set the appropriate level for 2013. a level that allows the implementation of agreed and key union policies and commitments. i would also like to emphasise that 2013 is the last year of the multiannual financial perspective. we need to have the right level of payments to meet our obligations.
this discussion today is about 2013. this is a special year because it is the year that ends the financial perspective for 2007-2013. the appropriations for commitments should therefore be increased this year. but this one is getting harder. it is worth noting that the level of outstanding commitments in the union is increasing. at the end of 2011, it was already eur 207 billion, in 2013 at least eur 152 billion will be needed. we know very well that the union does not have such an income in any year. i would therefore like to ask commissioner lewandowski, who is the most competent person in this area, whether the commission is able to secure the funds next year to meet these commitments.
in writing. it is a sensitive time to be discussing budgetary issues in current economic conditions. the guidelines for 2013 put forward by mr la via echo our previous calls for the council to balance austerity with investment. we have repeatedly stated that economic recovery cannot be achieved by austerity alone. promoting growth and job creation requires specific actions and enhanced budgetary efforts to support european competitiveness, innovation and smes. entrepreneurship is another theme we should support, especially female entrepreneurs. international women's day reminded us of the great financial contribution women employers and business owners make to the economy. supporting female entrepreneurs fits eu 2020 strategy. another important issue is payments. i strongly urge eu member states to reduce the level of payments for 2013. the level of payments should take account of actual budgetary needs and existing agreements with other countries and institutions. if payment levels are reduced, the eu’s ability to respect standing agreements and obligations will also be reduced. the 2013 guidelines should be seen as a tool to boost growth and ensure europe is prepared to address future financial difficulties. we need to guarantee a responsible budget that will strike the right balance between our needs, our responsibilities and our commitments.
in writing. fellow students and colleagues! in recent years, the incidence of diabetes has increased. the problem affects a growing number of citizens, with over 32 million people in the european union alone. the data are worrying, and i believe that an eu strategy on diabetes, covering prevention, diagnosis, management, education and research, should be implemented as soon as possible. according to statistics, in poland in 2025 there will be about 4 million people with diabetes. this shows how important it is for member states to develop and implement national programmes to combat diabetes, as this disease is one of the main burdens, not only medical but also social and economic, on public health and healthcare.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'd like to congratulate mr. ferreira on a job well done. given the financial situation of the european union, this report is of vital importance to the fisheries sector. the situation of small-scale fisheries, which is the most affected by the current economic situation in europe, should be given special attention. the common fisheries policy currently being discussed in the committee on fisheries devotes a separate chapter to this fisheries area. this is of enormous importance not only economically but also culturally. tradition, continuity of the profession, the transfer of experience and, most importantly, responsibility have always been linked to this form of fishing. it is important to ensure that this profession can continue, to create conditions that encourage the younger generation to cultivate this profession of fisherman, so that this generational tradition does not disappear. the european fisheries fund must therefore be an aid to the development of the industry, not an instrument to encourage fishermen to give up their trade. member states, with the support of the european commission under the fisheries fund, must pursue a sustainable policy not only in the context of the natural environment but also in the context of the fisheries environment. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that we will support this report.
in writing. the problem of trade restrictions between the european union and the united states on beef imports has been ongoing since 1988. after years of negotiations, mutual export restrictions, sanctions and retaliatory tariffs, there is a chance that this dispute can finally be brought to an end. and end it on a mutually beneficial basis. the united states and canada suspended all sanctions on eu agricultural products in exchange for a zero duty on an increased tariff quota for high-quality beef without growth hormone (which was the reason for the ban on imports into the eu). we only have to meet the deadlines, which is to approve the second phase of the agreement so that it can enter into force on 1 august this year. i fully support the rapporteur's position and i am in favour of the european parliament's positive opinion on this matter. the agreement will have a very positive impact on transatlantic economic and political relations with our main trading partners.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been a candidate country for membership of the european union since 2005, more than six years. accession negotiations with the fyrom have not yet started, mainly because of a bilateral dispute over the country's name. those in favour of opening accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia argue that this dispute should not in any case be an obstacle to this process. we cannot accept this assertion without question. good neighbourly relations between the members of the union are important. in this case, it is greece, and in this case, we cannot see the voice of greece as weakened by the internal financial crisis in that country. on the one hand, everything must be done to ensure that the opening of negotiations does not involve the union in local conflicts, and on the other hand, to stimulate a thorough discussion on the strategy for further enlargement of the union in the context of a serious financial crisis.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating mrs doris pack on a very good and balanced report. i am pleased that a new government has been appointed in bosnia and herzegovina; i believe that this is an opportunity to accelerate the reforms that my predecessors have spoken of and to make further progress in integration with the european union. i believe that the focus of the government should be on education and employment policies, which are crucial for the growth and socio-economic development of this country. reforms of the education system should aim to better align the education offer with labour market requirements and thus increase employment opportunities, especially for young people. this should also be done by using european education programmes to promote the mobility of young people and by promoting the mutual recognition of qualifications in the region. and these are issues that could be addressed by the western balkans platform for education and training.
mr. speaker, the house of lords! i voted with conviction in favour of the resolution on the european fisheries fund because i believe that it is a very important sector of the european union's economy and our approach, the commission's approach to this matter, shows the flexibility of the european institutions in the face of the crisis that has struck our continent. on the one hand, we meet the legitimate expectations of these communities, of this entire industry, and on the other hand, we maintain a rational approach to the way the european union spends money. i want to emphasize that fisheries issues have not only an economic dimension, but also a health dimension. we have been talking about the diabetes plague in this parliament. a healthy diet, including fish, is an essential part of taking care of the health of our citizens in the european union.
mr. speaker, the house of lords! the conflict, which i hope we will take a big step towards ending today, began as far back as 1988. as a result, european exporters lose about 116 million dollars a year because of the ban on the import of our european products into the us market, which was the american retaliation to the european union's bans. i am a strong supporter of free trade, and i also believe that just as the united states should have confidence in the phytosanitary procedures in europe, we should have confidence in the food safety procedures in the united states. so it seems that what we did today is a step in a very good direction. i hope the united states will respond positively to the goodwill of the european union.
mr. speaker, the house of lords! i voted with all responsibility, along with my group. first of all, it is of course a technical condition, a technical determination. however, they are linked to the fact that the european parliament is gradually implementing these recommendations and is gradually adapting to the increased role that our parliament now plays in european structures, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i am of course very positive that under the verification procedure the member states, representing a qualified majority, can block the commission's proposal on trade policy by a simple majority. that is what is at issue, as my predecessor has said, among other things in the matter of definitive anti-dumping measures. it is good that we are creating mechanisms that can protect the european market, that can protect our consumers.
mr. chairman, please! despite some concerns about the lack of detailed consultation with the member states, i decided to support the report. the regulation makes it possible to adapt certain provisions relating to the common commercial policy to the requirements of the treaty of lisbon. this is particularly true of the implementing regulations, which aim to ensure uniform transposition of european law in this field in all member states, replacing the existing committee procedure. the introduction of the treaty procedures, namely the advisory and the examination procedures, will be an important tool in this respect. the application of the concept of delegated acts will allow parliament to exercise proper control in this area as well. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the member states' taxation systems. i hope that these regulations will make it possible to improve trade between the countries of the union and third countries, to the benefit of citizens.
mr. chairman, please! your highness! like all the poles in the ecr group, i voted against our group, i voted for this report. i see the arguments of all those who talk about the need to cut back on the eu budget, about the need to fight bureaucracy. these are good, noble words and they must be supported, but we must remember that the new member states will be the first to suffer from the cuts in the eu budget, and it is these member states that need the support of the european union today to make up the economic and cultural gap that separates them from the rich countries of the so-called 'old europe'. we in poland opened our market to goods from the european union as early as the early 1990s. we didn't protect our market. british, italian, dutch companies were making a lot of money on the opportunity to use the polish market. today is the moment when our citizens have the right to demand that europe help them - it helps, but we don't want it to stop helping.
mr. chairman, please! i supported this resolution, and i believe that the role of the european institutions, the role of the european parliament, is to help citizens. we have in the european union - very well, because i'm a supporter of a diverse union - we have in europe many legal systems. countries differ significantly from one another, and what we are encouraging is more and more people-to-people, economic, cultural contacts between eu citizens from different countries. this, of course, requires a better understanding of the legal systems that will affect european union citizens travelling, engaging in professional, cultural or any other activity in different countries. that is why i think that - within the limits of reason, of course, and respecting the money of european taxpayers - this kind of coordination is needed.
mr. speaker, this is the house. i, of course, endorsed the document. i think that these are important moments in the history of our parliament, in the work of our parliament, when, over the divisions that are very clear here, we are able, in the name of the values that have brought us together, to rise above these divisions and vote together. as in the case of this problem, which is a problem, as we say in poland, calling for vengeance to heaven. the situation where millions of children, tens of millions of children around the world are exploited, forced to work, robbed of their childhood, robbed of their own future, is a situation that cannot be accepted. it is very good that the european parliament is dealing with this issue and it is very good that we are trying to get to the bottom of it. we want to track the channels through which products go, through which they reach the european market. we, as europe, are a powerful consumer of cocoa too, we are able to track whether products that go to the european market, that european consumers pay for, are products that are illegal illegal under international law that use child labour.
mr. chairman, please! i have of course supported this document on the cocoa agreement, which is of course linked to what we have just been talking about. it is a document that replaces the agreement that the european union is part of, the agreement of 2001. it is a step in the right direction, and calls for transparency in cocoa production. because, as we've been talking about, there's a huge problem with illegal child labor, but we're also talking about lowering trade barriers, we're talking about more access to the european market for a product like cocoa, which we've been talking about here, which is an important export product for very poor countries. provided that child labour is not used in cocoa production, it is certainly right to encourage a situation in which rich europe, by buying cocoa from poor countries, supports their development.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament 10% of the population of the european union are people struggling with diabetes. with the changes in civilization, the changes in lifestyle and the ageing of european societies, the problem of diabetes will affect more and more of our citizens. that is why i voted for this document today. i believe that the scale of the diabetes problem is so great today that it is necessary for all institutions - both at the level of national governments and indeed at the level of our entire community - to address this problem both by promoting healthy lifestyles, good diet, and by increasing the expenditure on strictly medical research on this problem. i am glad that the european parliament has adopted this document today by such a large majority.
mr. chairman, please! enlargement towards the balkans is the next stage in the development of european integration. the republic of macedonia is already an important and close economic partner of the union. i therefore consider that the immediate fixing of the date for the opening of accession negotiations is a priority for our relations with that country today. in supporting the resolution, i express my full appreciation for both the pro-european policy of the government in skopje and the euro-atlantic aspirations expressed by the status of a candidate country to nato. the european security issue should go hand in hand with the idea of enlargement. the progress of macedonia's economic development is also noteworthy, with the country ranked third in the world bank report in terms of successful regulatory reforms over the past five years. the anti-corruption strategy has also been successful, with a significant improvement in the transparency international ranking. i believe that the country's economic potential, together with its stabilizing domestic politics, will be its strength in the negotiating process.
mr. speaker, the house of lords! the balkans have been a dangerous flashpoint in european history, in european politics for many years. today, it is most welcome that more balkan countries are declaring, and are declaring sincerely, their european aspirations. they want to join our community, which since its inception has been an area of economic growth, growing prosperity and, above all, peace, unprecedented in the history of our continent. it's no wonder that countries that have experienced so much unrest, that have experienced wars, want to be with us. that is why i support macedonia's aspirations to be in the european union and from this place i would also like to appeal to our greek friends not to raise the issue of the name of the republic of macedonia any more. i think that in today's europe, there should be no place for this kind of narrow, chauvinistic approach. we should all live in friendship and understanding for each other on our shared continent.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union should be enlarged, should be enlarged to include all the countries which share our values, which are democratic countries and respect human rights, which respect the conditions of a free economy, a free economy. this is definitely the case in iceland. in my opinion, what has happened in iceland in recent years should be a lesson for us in the european union: a very deep crisis, an unprecedented financial crisis, a political crisis as well, and the way iceland is coming out of this crisis. i think that for a lot of reasons it would be good if the european union were to enlarge to include iceland, but of course they say it takes two to tango. for iceland to become a member of the european union, it also needs the will of the icelandic voters and citizens.
bosnia and herzegovina is the country that has suffered the most from the long-running war in the balkans. he is still regularly plagued by internal unrest, including the rise of wahhabi extremism across the region. given the complex hierarchy, the emergence of a new government should be welcomed with optimism, while encouraging full implementation of the agreement, including dialogue for the smooth conduct of budgetary procedures and necessary reforms. the european union is also committed to supporting the implementation of the acquis in the field of human rights and democracy. i also hope that the war crimes cases will be settled and that the terrorist threat will be eliminated. at the same time, i welcome the intensified efforts of the governments of bosnia, serbia and croatia to overcome the remaining problems, including the expansion of regional security cooperation. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
mr president, bosnia and herzegovina is a special place, and i do not hesitate to say that bosnia and herzegovina is the conscience of modern europe. less than 20 years ago, the former yugoslav republic was the scene of the most horrific crimes in europe since world war ii. the helpless west watched all this and then did nothing, which we still regret, i think, and above all, weep for the fatherless and childless citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. so today, it seems that helping bosnia and herzegovina in its european aspirations is paying a kind of moral debt that europe has to this special place. because this place, like a lens, shows the problems, but it also shows the opportunities that can be created by the coexistence of people of different religions, people of different nationalities in one territory. i hope that the peaceful development of bosnia and herzegovina will continue and find its place in the european union.
in writing. − the ongoing economic crisis is causing major disruptions in many member states, especially in the implementation of community cohesion programmes. the european commission proposes to increase the co-financing under the european fisheries fund by 10%, which will not affect the overall budget as the allocation of the european development fund will remain unchanged during this period. the changes in the fishing sector during the crisis have affected coastal communities in particular, where there has been a decline in investment and the resulting inequalities within the eu for some time, and we need a stronger focus on the edf to support production and ensure the development of local communities. the proposal to increase aid to the countries with the most problems is most welcome. the commission proposal does not, however, cover regulation (ec) no 861/2006 on the financial measures for the implementation of the common fisheries policy, which is essential for the sustainable development of the sector.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the european fisheries fund will contribute to improving the availability and sustainable use of financial resources allocated to this sector and to ensuring better design of these resources. poland wants to use the fund to modernise the sector and to use the funds wisely. i hope that the fund will be well administered and will serve those purposes. once again, i am voting in favour of the fund, because i am convinced that it will not be used to destroy polish baltic fisheries, but to modernise and develop them.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon gives parliament a co-legislating role in trade policy and its consent is necessary for any agreement to be concluded. in view of the changes which have taken place with the entry into force of the treaty, it is necessary to review and adapt all the procedures relevant to the common commercial policy in order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the common commercial policy. transparency of the commercial policy is a very important issue and is reflected in the proposal, as it aligns a number of regulations in the field of the common commercial policy with the new primary law provisions. the treaty of lisbon introduced a new instrument in the form of delegated acts, which allows legislative acts of minor importance to be transmitted to the executive. the parliament and the council play an important role here, as they retain the right to revoke or veto any decision taken in the context of the transmission of legislative acts. the treaty also provides for implementing acts which, together with delegated acts, replace the committee procedure. the introduction of these significant changes in the decision-making procedures for implementing measures urgently requires the adaptation of existing legal acts and i am therefore pleased that parliament has adopted today a report which will allow these innovative solutions to be introduced into the regulations in question on the common commercial policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the giovanni la via report because i fully support the rapporteur's view that the 2013 budget should be an instrument that, by supporting coordinated action, will allow us to return to the path of economic growth and to counter the effects of the crisis. i consider the greatest threat to the european union to be the alarming level of youth unemployment, which has already exceeded 20% and in some countries even 40%. moreover, unemployment is no longer limited to the low-skilled but is also affecting the most highly qualified. this situation has both an economic and a social dimension and is a threat to the future of europe's social capital. i therefore believe that emphasis should be placed on financing measures to improve the situation of young people rapidly and to create conditions favourable to the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - i'd like to support the approval of the cocoa agreement. europe is dependent on imports of this product, and there is no possibility of growing it on the continent. it's not a necessity, either, which is why we can afford it. however, the conditions under which cocoa is harvested are disturbing. this is not about sanitation or quality issues, but about the practice of child labor. minors are working too hard for their abilities. not to mention that they do it instead of studying or playing, which is normal for their european peers. the possibility of changing this situation is not easy, but it is not impossible. importers could enforce the age of workers from their suppliers, control the plantations and make compliance with the rules a condition for further commercial cooperation. the european union is the guardian of human rights throughout the world. we must not forget that and we must protect the weakest.
in writing. − i have been involved in activities for people with diabetes in my region for many years. i am therefore all the more pleased that this rapidly growing problem has been brought to the attention of the european parliament. not only are many eu citizens affected by this disease, but the proportion of people at risk is also significant and increasing, which is why raising awareness about this disease is so important. we have to confront this problem, and we certainly need more innovative approaches to diabetes. it will be important to develop an appropriate diabetes strategy, taking into account early diagnosis and research in this area. it is necessary to analyse the data on the disease and the patients in order to understand the problem and be able to effectively address it or significantly minimise it. action will be needed not only by the union institutions but also, and above all, by the member states, in particular in the development of programmes for the prevention of diabetes. in addition, member states should take into account preventive measures to combat chronic diseases. diabetes should be recognised as a priority societal challenge and the strategy to combat this disease should be supported by appropriate funding.
in writing. - diabetes is an extremely insidious and chronic disease. it is estimated that half of those who have the disease are unaware of their condition, and it kills as many as three million people worldwide each year. diabetes, if left undiagnosed and untreated, is a leading cause of blindness, kidney failure, heart attacks, strokes, and amputations. so it cannot be dismissed as a disease that affects a small percentage of the population. i fully agree with the rapporteur that a comprehensive strategy for the prevention, early detection and mitigation of diabetes needs to be developed and implemented in the european union. we need to educate communities, which is now focused on providing information about infectious diseases. the most important thing is, of course, prevention and the provision of free prevention and diagnostic tests: blood sugar, blood pressure, body fat and body weight. a large-scale diabetes counselling programme will also be required. member states should implement comprehensive programmes aimed at raising awareness among eu citizens about the causes of the diabetes epidemic. poor diet, low-nutrient, high-calorie foods, sedentary work, overfeeding of children, and so forth are proving to be disastrous. but the cost of diabetes is very high.
in writing. − macedonia was the first country in the western balkans region to be granted eu candidate status. at the same time, the integration process has the highest public support in the western balkans. the outcome of the recent parliamentary elections and the rapid formation of a government are one of the key factors that have encouraged the eu to open membership talks with macedonia. a major obstacle to the opening of negotiations is the ongoing name dispute with neighbouring greece. we believe that this dispute should be ended and that macedonia should be given a chance to start negotiations on the one hand, and on the other hand, be allowed to avoid promoting its own ethnic and cultural identity at the expense of its neighbours. the good development of the economy and the legal basis for its functioning should be appreciated. like any country in transition and building its own statehood, macedonia is struggling with unemployment, social exclusion and corruption. i am convinced that the opening of eu membership negotiations will allow us to accelerate positive changes with the simultaneous approval of the macedonian society for these changes. i therefore support the adoption of the report and the resolution on this matter.
in writing. - the report by mr preda on the progress of iceland's preparations for eu membership should be welcomed. iceland is a small country, but with a great democratic tradition and spirituality. at the same time, iceland has demonstrated how strongly it has overcome the financial crisis and will be among the most developed countries in the european economic area in 2012. the very good evaluation of the implementation of european law in the icelandic legal system and the closure of 8 out of 11 open negotiating chapters, gives a good outlook for the negotiations in 2012. the most important areas of negotiation for iceland are undoubtedly fisheries and agriculture, but these chapters are always of particular concern to the applicant countries. the fisheries agreements so far are good for agreement in these areas too. i wish iceland success in this process, because its accession to the eu means the eu space from malta to iceland.
in writing. - i voted for these reports. we have adopted three enlargement reports on bosnia and herzegovina, iceland and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the reflection is that we in the european parliament are dominated by the problem of the economic crisis, which often leads to the fundamental question of whether the union will survive, whether the eurozone will survive, given that other countries after croatia declare their readiness to join the european union. this means that the perception of the union from the outside is very different from the perception of the union from the inside. for many countries, the values that they associate with the european union and the opportunities it offers in a united europe and in a global world are a value and a goal they aspire to. so this vote is a call to accelerate and step up our efforts to overcome the crisis and for the eu community to regain confidence in the european union and its institutions.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the document on the progress report on bosnia and herzegovina in 2011. after several months of stagnation, bosnia and herzegovina is once again on the path towards european integration. i'm sure there's still a lot to do. constitutional changes, improved justice, and the initiation of broad political and economic reforms are inevitable. the establishment of a long-term vision for the development of the business area is particularly important for bosnia and herzegovina, which is the worst performer in its region in terms of investment attractiveness. restoring confidence and creating an investor-friendly environment by removing administrative barriers and creating an appropriate legal framework will contribute to further economic growth, and thus to reducing unemployment and improving the welfare of society.
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i share your hope that the developments in russia give some hope for optimism, but i do not share your opinion that these elections were progress, as you said i believe they were not. but my question is this: do you not think that the resolution we are discussing could have been stronger, because if the representatives of the european external action service, who are diplomats, speak more strongly on human rights than the european parliament, does that not mean that we have not met certain expectations?
on behalf of the ecr group. i feel that today our realism, but also our seriousness, requires us to tell this house what those elections really were. perhaps the simplest thing would be to pass no resolution if, as we sit here, elected in democratic elections across europe, we are unable to distinguish between elections that are democratic and those that are simply not elections. so maybe sometimes you just don't give a resolution, and if you don't, you write one sentence: in this election, not everyone could run and nothing came of this election for democracy, they have nothing to do with it. what we need today is a kind of realism, not a realism that is based on writing untruths, writing things that are not true, and then being laughed at. because we are losing our position as the european parliament and the european union is treated as a non-serious organisation. that's why i'm calling today for a call to action in russia, since we've decided to make this resolution, and if you don't, sometimes it's better to keep your mouth shut. the other thing. we need to reach out to those who are on the streets and tell them that we understand this young generation that is protesting. russia is no different than any other post-soviet country. we must make it clear to them that if force is used, we will act as we would in any other case and that the limit of the use of force must be the limit that we in this house set today. we have to make sure that we're all on the same page about this, you and i, sitting here and on that side. i have no doubt that the svoboda mp, whom i know and respect, is also. it should be clear today from this place said
first of all, i would like to say that pavel kowal is no longer a member of the law and justice party, as i am, and we very much misjudge the fact that the members of pis sit in the same group in the council of europe with the one russia party. i want to say that what is happening in russia today must raise fundamental questions about the democratic character of this country. today, there is no doubt in this room that the elections in russia were not real elections, that the opposition in russia is persecuted, not only at the level of the vote counting procedure itself, although practically every day brings new facts about the fact that the vote counting was not fair in the last presidential election, but democracy is more than just the technical process of voting and counting votes, it is also the whole environment, it is also freedom of the media, freedom of political parties, freedom of speech. all of this is not in russia, so even if there were a technically guaranteed fair vote - going to the ballot box, casting the vote and the fact of counting that vote - even then we could not talk about fair elections in russia, because anything other than the technical act of voting is not democratic in russia. today the european union should have a strong policy because - and i want to say this very clearly - the russian people deserve freedom and we wish the russian people that freedom.
i don't want to repeat all the things we talked about here today, because i think we can almost all agree that the situation in russia is bad, and the elections were neither free nor fair, although unfortunately even today there were voices saying that these elections were progress. i don't think so, and most of you don't think so either. but let me also focus on the procedure for adopting this resolution, because this resolution was also processed in a way that made it difficult to work on it and work to strengthen it. this resolution is weak and i believe that mr mcmillan-scott and the other speakers in this chamber are right when they say that this resolution should be stronger and that is the task of the european parliament. i therefore have the honour to ask you to support the three amendments to the ecr which strengthen this weak resolution in the plenary session tomorrow. i'm counting on your votes.
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with you completely that russians are not little children. i'm convinced that most russians are smarter than you, i'm convinced of that. my question to you is, do you know what the media market in russia looks like? do you know how many free tv stations, free radio stations, free press are there?
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. one small note to start with regarding the procedure for holding meetings. i would like to say that i have applied twice for the 'blue card' procedure and that has unfortunately not been noticed by the president. that was the case with the statements of meltzer and fleckenstein, but i would like to take this opportunity to take up the floor that my political group has given me and say that - speaking to fleckenstein - i hope you think that we should not only have a dialogue with the duma today, especially in a situation where the opposition has been expelled from the duma, opposition candidates have been partially barred from the presidential elections, that we should also have this dialogue with the political forces in russia that are outside parliament, that are today either new political parties that are emerging or ngos in the form of associations or something else. i think we should also have a dialogue with these circles and these candidates. one note on our resolution. we are addressing president medvedev. i think we should have already noted that president medvedev, first of all, was not the person who made strategic decisions in russian policy during his term, and secondly, today he is already de facto the outgoing president, so we should address our appeals rather to president putin, who will take over the presidential power in russia again.
mr president, for the elections to be truly fair, full access must be granted to all candidates, not just those who the authorities allow to take part. in the same way, the recent presidential elections are neither fair nor democratic. nevertheless a majority of the russian people continue to support vladimir putin, now president, and before that prime minister, and before that president. the rulers in the kremlin feel that support but they must realise that lack of democracy breeds corruption and deprives the citizens of their dignity. events in north africa and the middle east are showing that sooner or later people will rebel against corruption and will come out on the streets to demand to be treated with respect. the same is true of russia and the democratic reforms are essential in russia if future turbulence is to be avoided. turbulence is different from the recent peaceful demonstrations and i think this is one of the results of these elections.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. kazakhstan is the european union's most important partner in central asia, although geographically part of europe. kazakhstan plays an important stabilising role in this strategic region of the world and the kazakh authorities attach great importance to relations with the european union. we know that there have been violent incidents in kazakhstan recently, and people have died. we express our sympathy to the families of the victims and express the view that an explanation of this tragedy is in the interest of all, including especially the authorities of kazakhstan. but we feel we should be careful in judging these events without having full knowledge of what happened. a european parliament resolution cannot be turned into an indictment, and it cannot be supported by evidence. i think we should appeal to the kazakh authorities to fully explain these tragic accidents, punish the guilty and absolve the innocent, but we cannot accuse the kazakh authorities and fall within their competence in this context. that is the proposal for a resolution by the ecr group and i call for its adoption.
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to ask mr. mölzer if he was sure that the comparison with syria was accurate. thousands of people have died there, there are bloody events and completely - in my opinion - incomparable. but don't you think that's a misrepresentation of the situation in kazakhstan compared to the situation in syria?
we should pursue a realistic policy towards kazakhstan, as we do towards other countries in the east. i believe that kazakhstan is a country with which a sensible policy can be pursued, provided that the union acts consistently and remains true to its values. the line is always the same. if our friends, our friends are in prison, if force is used, we cannot treat this situation as normal. but i think that today kazakhstan needs, not only the european union, but in this case in coordination with the united states, to show kazakhstan a chance. i have the impression that the government of kazakhstan today is still ready to accept such a proposal, but it requires one vote from us. beyond this boundary, where there are detentions, beyond this boundary, where there is the use of force, we cannot move. instead, we can make an offer that will be at the expense of a free media and the preparation for free elections, which will take place in kazakhstan, as in any other country, one day.
question asked according to the blue card procedure . mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you go. i appreciate your knowledge of kazakhstan's economic performance, but i wanted to ask you if you think kazakhstan's economic performance and economic cooperation justify turning a blind eye to the beating of people and the arrest of the opposition.
as perhaps the only member in this chamber, i had the opportunity two weeks ago to be in kazakhstan, to see the situation firsthand, to meet the families of the victims, to offer my deepest condolences on behalf of the european parliament, to meet most of the prosecutors investigating the case, to meet regional authorities, the new authorities in the city, to meet independent ngos or to meet independent media. i want to thank the polish embassy for this visit, but also the embassy of kazakhstan, which made many meetings possible, and i also want to thank the independent opposition for the meeting. what does this tell us? we have the assurance of the kazakh authorities that the tragedy of the death of innocent people will be explained, but also the tragedy of the beating of the people detained. we have assurances that these trials will go ahead. we also have assurances of transparent, objective processes towards the detainees we care about most: kozlov, vinyavsky and amira, who were detained. it's a very important thing. i think we should continue to monitor the transparency situation. i also want to say that i assess this visit and this situation as another step in democracy, but there is no democracy in kazakhstan without really objective processes concerning the people who are being detained: kozlov, vinyavsky and amira. i think kazakhstan has a test for democracy today. in my opinion, this democracy will be expressed through free media, through free opposition and through relaxing certain restrictive laws that are in force in kazakhstan today. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. the case, the person you mentioned, was not the subject of my visit, but i would like to say that i was very interested in the cases of the people who visited our parliament: mr kozlov, previously mr winiawski. and i have received a full statement from the kazakh authorities about the transparent processes, about the possibility of monitoring. i think that the most important thing for us is that the european parliament, after these important assurances from the kazakh authorities, should be able to monitor these investigations so that they are fully objective. assurances are good, let's hope practice is good too! (the speaker agrees to answer the question put in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. i think that until the great tragedy, the tragedy of the entire kazakh nation, which took place in zhangaozen, these processes were going in the right direction. however, the arrests of the opposition, the free media after the events in żangaözen have raised great doubts. so today, after high-level meetings with regional and local officials and prosecutors, i see some openness. but i think today we're going to have to test this information and the statements of the authorities. i believe the test of true democracy will be the trials of the people we're talking about today. and i think it's in kazakhstan's interest to have an objective explanation of this situation, but it's also in kazakhstan's interest to allow more space for the opposition and free media. we have to monitor this, we have to show that democracy has its stages and can be further expanded in kazakhstan according to european models.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. as they say in the famous movie, "nobody's perfect". and of course, as the european union, we have dilemmas and problems with countries where things are happening that we should criticize, that we criticize, that contradict certain of our values, the principles that apply in our country, in the western world, in the european union or in the united states. and that, of course, is true of kazakhstan today. a country that on the one hand we want to cooperate with, many member states of the european union want to cooperate with, buy raw materials. kazakhstan declares its openness to cooperation with the countries of the european union and the western world, declares through the mouth of the president who has great power there political changes. on the other hand, we see that it's not going as fast as we would like, it's going backwards and there are examples, situations that we define quite clearly as human rights violations. and i think that today, in this situation, we should say to the president of kazakhstan and the authorities of kazakhstan: we are still open to cooperation, but at the same time we will monitor very scrupulously these cases, which are defined as violations of human rights, and we must say to the president of kazakhstan: there is no consent to persecute the opposition, there is no consent on our part to repress journalists and to silence the free media.
i would like to see this debate in parliament today as a concern for the future of kazakhstan, as a concern for the future of relations between kazakhstan and the european union, because we know the role it plays in this region of the world - especially the stabilizing role in the conflict with kyrgyzstan - and we know what the effects of its chairmanship of the osce have been. it is also a country of great economic opportunity, a partner in economic exchange with europe. the recent large contracts for the exploration of natural resources in the country are worth mentioning. but on the other hand, we also know that this is a country that was badly judged in the last election by the organization for security and cooperation, which he chaired. and here too, we are concerned about the lack of full democratization, and in particular the lack of respect for the rights of the opposition, human rights, journalists. for many years, the opposition party atga has been looking forward to registration why? its chairman was in the european parliament and when he returned, he was arrested. he had surgery. a wife is not allowed to have contact with her husband. on the other hand, we also have information about journalists who are being arrested. there is a whole list of activists, both public and opposition journalists, who are currently imprisoned. what is the basic standard that we expect is freedom for opposition activists, freedom for journalists. and then that can be the basis for a constructive dialogue.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. there was a lot of talk in the debate about the need for a realistic policy towards kazakhstan. i agree with this, although realism cannot mean acceptance of the unfortunately evident violation of human rights. nowhere, including kazakhstan. at this point, i would like to express my appreciation for the decision of the kazakh authorities to allow mr kozlov to undergo surgery and to allow him to see the prisoner and his family. i also appreciate the fact that the draconian sentence imposed on ms. sokolova has been overturned. it's good that she's not only been released from prison, but she's been allowed to continue practicing law. but there are still too many others in custody awaiting trial. we hold the authorities to their word that these trials will be fair and just. i shall return to the question of political realism. we are aware that high democratic standards are not achieved in a very short time, they are not achieved in a flash. however, for this process to proceed at a decent pace in kazakhstan, the kazakh authorities need to know that the future of eu-kazakhstan relations, including the economic relations, including those they expect under the new pca, also depends on the pace of improvement in human rights and political reforms in the country.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at the outset, i would like to stress that one of the foundations of the eu's functioning is the democratic rule of law and the associated norms and ideas that should guide us in building relations with the countries cooperating with the union. given the geopolitical situation of kazakhstan, which, due to its difficult past, is trying to introduce these very principles, we should emphasise the seriousness of the situation in zhangaozen at the same time remember that this is the country that is developing european standards most dynamically in central asia. i would like to point out that this is a strategic partner for us, who is making every effort to develop our common relations. the successful chairmanship of the osce has demonstrated that kazakhstan is capable of meeting exceptional challenges. i think that in shaping our future relations and cooperation we should take into account the specificity of the region and how complex the interdependencies are.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! in 2010, the european parliament adopted a resolution condemning the mass killings in the area of jos, where a christian pogrom took place. unfortunately, today we can say that the situation in nigeria has deteriorated. freedom of religion is guaranteed by the constitution, but the state authorities are too weak to fight organized crime that does not accept freedom. boko haram, which terrorizes the christian community and is fighting for the imposition of sharia law in all states of nigeria, has resorted to bombings that have killed over a thousand people. last week, the same group killed two hostages, a british and an italian, who had been held for 10 months. two years ago, the european parliament had doubts about whether religion was the main cause of the excesses in nigeria. the sources of violence in nigeria were considered by experts to be very complex: economic, social, ethnic, political. today, however, it seems clear that religious hatred is the root cause of rape. boko haram can be translated as "western education is a sin", and the command to fight sin, the vice, is religious in nature. the point is that we need to support those in nigeria who are trying to stand up to religious fanatics.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. we are witnessing terrible tragedies in nigeria, deaths, murders of innocent people who are victims of religious madness. muslim extremists are attacking christians, murdering them, just because they have a different religion, a different culture, a different tradition, a different set of values. it is a terrible thing that such tragedies are happening on a massive scale in today's world. the first clashes between muslims and christians were recorded in 1990, and unfortunately the international community did not seem to be very consistent in its stance. the effects of this inaction were seen last sunday when boko haram terrorists planted bombs outside a church in jos, killing 14 more innocent people. today, the european parliament must unequivocally condemn islamic terrorism and attacks on christians. meps should draw up an expert plan to support the nigerian authorities in their fight to stop the bloodshed and to bring the country back together. this is certainly lacking today strong condemnation of islamic radicalism and crime.
religious and ethnic violence has claimed thousands of lives in nigeria over the past decade. since 2009, we have seen a clear escalation in the activities of the extremist islamic sect that has been mentioned here repeatedly. since july 2009, it has carried out 160 bombings targeting christians, killing more than 900 people, including 44 on christmas day this year. the sect is seeking to impose sharia law in all 36 states of nigeria. she has declared religious war on christians and is threatening to expel them from the north of the country. christians thus become one of the most persecuted religious groups. in the middle east, there is already a risk of christian communities disappearing, which could lead to a wave of migration to europe. the situation in nigeria is characterised by political instability and corruption, which have led to an extremely unequal distribution of wealth. in the second-largest country in africa, a major supplier of oil to europe, a huge percentage of the population lives in poverty on less than two dollars a day. this is the basis for religious fanaticism. the european union should seek to strengthen its dialogue with the nigerian government to ensure that it ensures public order and justice.
ladies and gentlemen! nigeria is another country today that the militant wing of islam wants to impose its religious law on by force. the first victims are the christians living there. the north of nigeria is a place of religious purges, assaults and murders of thousands of nigerians today. the introduction of sharia law in successive states has resulted not only in hostility but also in discrimination against christians in access to education, employment, and religious practices. europe cannot ignore these events, which are the harbinger of a real tragedy. our diplomacy, the diplomacy of member states, must do everything to protect nigeria from the growing religious hostility. we need to intensify dialogue and political pressure on the basis of the cotonou agreement so that no one in nigeria thinks that crimes against minorities and religious freedom will go unpunished.
on behalf of the ppe group. - i'm not going to tell you. thank you very much for the very long, comprehensive and truthful words of the political declaration on cooperation with belarus. the fact is that our relations with belarus, with our neighbour, the internal situation in that country, concerns us in this house regularly and recently very often. as recently as february, we were discussing whether to call for a moratorium on the death penalty in this country. today we are debating the union's response to the diplomatic war that the authorities in minsk declared on europe two weeks ago. the effect of this war may be the deepening of belarus's self-isolation. i hope that nobody - not even in that country, in belarus, not even the undemocratically elected authorities - is happy about this prospect, because the only consequence of this could be a deepening process of loss of independence by that country. despite the irrational decision to expel the polish and eu ambassadors from minsk, there is still a chance to stop the bad development of the situation. there is still time for belarus to return to basic relations with the western world, but what is obviously needed is the release of political prisoners, an end to repression against opposition activists, independent journalists and human rights defenders, and the preparation of parliamentary elections in accordance with basic, minimum european principles. in short, it's time for change and this is an appeal to minsk before it's too late.
on behalf of the ecr group. this resolution is a good resolution. we are talking about all the things we always talk about, namely the maintenance of economic sanctions, the release of political prisoners, the guarantee of the basic conditions for political cooperation, for public activity, for free social life. we demand the release of political prisoners - i am personally very pleased that the names of dmitry bandarenko and ivan shyla, people with whom i have a personal contact and a personal relationship, are included. but what is important here, in addition to what we also mention from time to time, is the support of the european union for free media, because only free media can change the consciousness of belarusians so that in these free elections, which will come sooner or later, they can really choose freely, democratically and according to their own will. what is new here and what is important to emphasize is that, unlike one of my previous speakers, i believe that this very important element is the call to move the ice hockey world championship to another country than belarus. why would you do that? because an event as joyful as the world cup cannot take place in a place or country where there is no reason to rejoice, where political prisoners are held, where torture is carried out against opponents. this is an important new element and it is good that it is in this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i think it is time to ask ourselves what the european union's policy towards belarus has been in recent years, how we would characterize it and how it is seen from minsk. the colds, the delusions, the six-monthly rotations, the warming, the cooling. and it ended up being what it ended up being. and then we wonder what to do. so i propose instead of harsh words, instead of waving a sword at the beginning to think for a moment and finally start to pursue a consistent policy, so that member states do not act against each other, do not speak officially about human rights, but quietly agree on some small investments, because all this leads us nowhere and belarus leads nowhere. only alexander lukashenko is happy about all this. the main thing today is to support the opposition, to support the opposition unequivocally and to show that they are our partners. lukashenko needs to hear from us that if there is another in the adverb warming, it is only because of his specific movements. first of all, freedom of the press, free newspapers, freedom of the internet, the abolition of censorship. let's put these conditions on him. he'll never change his position on the election because he can't. if we start dating him again for some elections, we will return to the same policy: nightmares, mood swings, every six months a different line of the european union all this just dares lukashenko to mistreat the opposition and keep it in prison. one simple piece of advice: be consistent!
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i already thanked the high representative, mrs ashton, at the committee on development, for the fact that the decisions on belarus were swift, clear and concrete this time. the reaction of the european union seems to have impressed the president of belarus. and if so, then perhaps we've finally found a way to make our actions against belarus more effective. this is a way of taking actions that will be painful for the belarusian authorities for various reasons. therefore, i agree with mr migalski that belarus should not host the 2014 ice hockey world championships. why would you do that? because the championships would probably be an opportunity for president lukashenko to launch himself and to present belarus as a normal country where normal sports competitions are held. but this is not true: this is not a normal country, this is a country where basic human rights are violated, where there is no democracy, and the world cup should not be held in a place where citizens are denied basic rights and freedoms. incidentally, the tolerance of sports in politics has meant that the beijing olympics have not brought any positive change in china's human rights record, so this argument is hard to accept. we cannot allow the neutral nature of sport to be used to manipulate public opinion and to build a false image of normalization. that's why this is an important proposition, and i fully support it.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. we have all witnessed such strange scenes and cat-and-mouse games from president lukashenko for many years, who has been keeping an eye on the west and on moscow, and at the same time with a hard hand has destroyed the opposition, destroyed journalists, destroyed ngos, fought with national minorities (which he still does). i am therefore very pleased that this reaction, the joint reaction to the recall of ambassadors' consultations, is such a first symbol of the joint reaction of the european union, not only of the community institutions, but also of the member states, and i would like us to continue to act with the same consistency both the community institutions and the member states towards the regime of alexander lukashenko. and of course, this also applies to the world cup of hockey, which should definitely not be held in belarus, because we should not be funding the holiday of alexander lukashenko.
i regret to say that the fight against pirates is not producing the desired results. the data shows that the number of attacks on commercial ships is already several hundred a year, and more than 450 people are still being held hostage by pirates. until now, the union and its atalanta operation have played an important role in the fight against piracy. unfortunately, that's turning out to be a disadvantage. the number of ships involved in the fight against pirates is dropping dramatically. in 2009 there were 35 ships, in 2011 there were only 10 and now there are only 3 ships involved in this operation. in other words, the union cannot appeal to others, the union itself must make a much greater and more concrete effort when it comes to fighting pirates.
before we move on to the agenda, i'd like to make a brief announcement. written declaration no 45/2011 by m. miguel ángel martínez martínez, fiona hall, filip kaczmarka, tereza riera madurell and judith sargentini on building scientific capacity in africa, supporting european-african radio astronomy partnerships was signed by a majority of meps. in accordance with rule 123 of the rules of procedure, the statement will therefore be circulated to the addressees and published in the texts adopted at the current meeting, with the names of the signatories appearing in the minutes of the meeting.
mr. president, i have to go. congratulations on the signature round and we move on to the agenda.
the next item is the report by chris davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 (2011/2095 (ini)) (a7-0033/2012).
the question is asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure. we talk all the time about the need for predictability in the industry, that it's important to have a plan, a long way to go, so that everyone knows how to proceed. but on the other hand, you are advocating that this plan be changed, especially over the next ten years, and there is confusion for the industry, for investors, because this plan is being changed now, right now. so the question is, do you think there is a contradiction here between setting stable, clear rules and changing them constantly?
regardless of political preferences, we all agree that protecting the environment is a duty of mankind. this also applies to reducing the burning of fossil fuels, i.e. reducing carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. however, the implementation of such a programme cannot be carried out in isolation from the economic realities and the situation of the individual member states. my country, poland, has made a huge effort to modernize its post-communist, coal-based economy, including a massive reduction in co2 emissions. these actions involve concrete sacrifices and costs for citizens. energy costs limit the scope for development in other areas. even the current 20% reduction in our economic realities will be very difficult and have negative social consequences. the polish veto is not a manifestation of misunderstanding, nonconformity or isolation, but it is a result of a cold assessment of the situation, of the diagnosis and the limited possibilities we have. and then there's this global atmosphere, and the public is very disturbed that the biggest polluters, the big economies of the world -- the united states, china and india -- are not doing anything meaningful, which is hurting competitiveness and undermining the whole project.
the report proposes to significantly tighten the eu's climate policy, on the one hand by raising the reduction targets to 80% by 2050 and on the other by reducing the number of allowances on the market by extinguishing them before the entry into force of the third phase of the ets. we can't agree to that for economic and political reasons. we all agreed in durban that international negotiations would continue until 2015. there is no reason to tighten climate policy in the european union today without an international agreement. that's a direct route to losing competitiveness. the cost of tightening climate policy in poland is €5.4 billion a year, that's more than half of all corporate profit, all industrial profit before tax, so legislative proposals in this area - despite the lack of a council conclusion - will be extremely disloyal not only to central europe, but also to european industry.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues for their efforts in preparing the amendments to the final text of the report, in particular romanian meps cizelj and markus pieper. a lot of the records are good, but a lot of them are very problematic, even bad. the cancun and durban summits showed that the european union has no supporters to back the commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 25% by 2020. nevertheless, the report has been amended to include such entries contrary to the world view. the european union has successfully introduced a european ets in 2007 after considerable effort. the system was to be a cure that would heal europe's industry by infusing additional funds into new technologies. changes to the ets during its first years of operation are dangerous because they dismantle the whole system. the report excludes all coal-based energy, leaving no room for research and innovation in this area, despite the fact that coal is the only natural resource available in europe for energy. today we must answer the question of what energy sources europe should have today and tomorrow: coal forbidden; nuclear energy banned; gas and oil from outside europe; biomass in small quantities or at the cost of changing the use of agricultural land, giving up crops for food; wind and solar energy without the possibility of storing it in batteries because such technologies do not yet exist; shale gas is no longer a public enemy 1. what's next, europe? maybe we'll move the whole industry to asia, the americas, and leave only tourism in our country. it's what we live on.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i'm not against a low-carbon economy based on modern technology, but i am against the lack of common sense and the desire to see the king naked. according to a report in the world energy outlook, by 2050, more than 50% of the world's energy will still be produced from coal. the eu's own carbon reduction policy, without energy alliances with the world's largest coal users, is therefore doomed to failure. we cannot afford to see the carbon leakage that is happening at an alarming rate, by closing down the mills, the factories and moving this production to the far east. it's just a bunch of hypocrisy. as the eu is the biggest advocate of low-carbon technologies by 2050, let it allocate additional funds to research related to the use of the most efficient energy source, the sun, on ways of transporting solar energy from areas beyond the earth's atmosphere, rather than focusing on the least efficient programme with a significantly higher cost of so-called renewable energy sources. i'm calling for sustainable development, especially in the area of emissions reduction, so that the poor don't have to pay the rich for their emissions.
in writing. i have the impression that the union under its current leadership is like an old man who is ambitiously flexing his muscles, even though he is about to have a stroke. the report and the communiqué are like the rambling of a patient with a high fever, higher than the proverbial two degrees of global warming. there's no point in bringing in any amendments, but any nonsense can be harmful, which requires a strong response. so i ask: 1. why does the commission want to save the climate at the expense of poland's economy and the deterioration of the social situation of its inhabitants? 2. who will be the biggest beneficiary of the speculation in the co2 market? 3.which eu countries will improve and which will lose their competitiveness? i don't expect an answer. the commission's uncritical belief in the politicization of the climate doctrine should be examined. and beliefs are hard to argue with. or is it not a matter of belief, but a cynical play on the climate? the polish veto is a signal that the commission should return to normal.
in writing. there is a contradiction in the title of the report by mr chris davies which, in my view, has affected the whole project competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 the title is misleading, but it could easily be corrected. well, we should add a question mark at the end of the title. i am sure that no one is able to prove today that by 2050 it will be possible to reconcile these two values that are so close to us: competitiveness and low emissions. it's not working today. on the contrary, unilateral emission reductions in europe also reduce the competitiveness of the european economy. maybe someday we'll be able to reduce or reverse that dependence. the problem is, we don't know how to do it yet, or if it's even possible. wishful thinking can bring serious problems to our economy, which we have plenty of. the essential and irreversible feature of emissivity is its global character. europe's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will be of little use if we do not put in place effective global emissions controls.
in writing. mr davies' report is potentially damaging, although it is full of noble ideas such as europe's independence from fossil fuel imports and the promotion of electric road transport. we all know how important these are. unfortunately, the rapporteur does not take into account the costs associated with the requirement to reduce co2 emissions by 80%-95% by 2050 - the main assumption of this report. well, in countries like poland, which produces 90% of its energy from coal, this policy will not only bring huge price increases, but it will also cause losses in the industrial sector, its relocation and high unemployment. moreover, another of the provisions of the document provides for changes to the recently established emissions trading system. this could undermine the eu's credibility with investors and businesses, whose support we desperately need in times of crisis. another drawback of this report is that we set ourselves targets without knowing whether the 2020 strategy will succeed and what the outcome of the international climate negotiations will be, which we are waiting for in 2015. in summary, this report goes too far into the future, contains potentially harmful and overly ambitious provisions for a region that produces only 12% of global emissions.
in writing. the rapporteur's proposal to phase out fossil fuels by 2050 is as ambitious as it is unrealistic. the proposals for top-down management of the ets are also unacceptable. the current proposals do not take account of the specificities of individual member states of the union. we can work together to reduce emissions, but not in a way that is uniform across the eu. for poland, the radical reduction in carbon emissions also means greater dependence on imported energy sources.
in writing. i was disturbed to read the transcripts of this report. full of internal inconsistencies, it seems to describe the worst nightmare of european entrepreneurs. it completely bridges the gap in economic development between the countries of the 'old union' and its new members. a good example of this is the ets records. it does not take into account the fuel specificities of individual economies, which is extremely unfavourable for coal-dependent countries and may result in a reduction of investment in certain industries or relocation of plants. in the report, the author completely ignores this fact by focusing on raising the emission thresholds. the experts also believe that the provisions on energy diversification and zero-emission sources by 2050 will not be met. the report also presents the financial side of the pek too broadly, whereas the modernisation investments in new capacity in poland alone are estimated at eur 86 billion by 2030. the report is dangerous because it goes against world trends and diplomatic realities by assuming a unilateral reduction in emissions. meanwhile, the eu is already the world's lowest emitter of greenhouse gases. therefore, i ask you once again to exercise caution and dismiss his writings.
few people realize that as much as 40 percent of the world's population does not have access to safe drinking water, and more than 80 million of the world's population still rely on unhealthy, polluted water sources. water management has a direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture, food security. so efficient water management is a fundamental prerequisite for fighting global poverty. it should also be recalled that the un has recognized the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation as a right derived from the right to an adequate standard of living. we must realise that the days of so-called easy water are over and that it is our duty to update and revise existing legislation in this area to respond to and meet the challenges of urbanisation, population growth and pollution. on the eve of the world water forum, we should pay special attention to this problem, to raise awareness of this problem and to draw the public's attention to its potential consequences. only in this way, with the support of the international community and the most influential politicians, can the outcomes and conclusions of this global forum be satisfactory and point in the right direction for change.
i understand mr. vigenin's reasoning, but i'm not sure i understand it. yesterday we had a long discussion, but yesterday it became clear that alexander lukashenko, the dictator of belarus, had waived his right to pardon two people accused of the alleged attacks on the belarusian metro. which means they'll probably be executed. our withdrawal from this resolution today will be in the language of diplomacy where the language of retort is in force will be read in minsk by lukashenko as a retreat, as an expression of weakness. that is why i ask you to vote on this resolution that was actually agreed today, because it will be a clear signal to lukashenko that we are united and determined on this issue.
we now come to the explanations of vote which we have just completed.
mr. speaker, this is the house. of course, the objectives set out in this report are not just ambitious, because environmental protection is certainly something that should unite us all. however, it is worth noting that the eu has recently shown a tendency to impose very strict environmental policies on itself, in a situation where the eu's objectives are not shared by the world's largest polluters, such as india and china. it is also important to note that within the european union, the relatively less developed economies will pay the highest price for the high standards, i stress, which our organization has adopted. that is why, by sharing all the elements that underlie our document, i could not vote for it.
mr. chairman, please! with reference to the commission communication and the report by mr davies on the transition to a low-carbon economy by 2050, i would like to stress two aspects. first, it is necessary to identify precisely the costs of raising the reduction targets. secondly, the proposed reduction in the number of allowances creates uncertainty for operators. the document states that the industry needs clear signals to take investment action, but the same material proposes to change the agreements of 2-3 years ago on the number of co2 emission allowances. the commission notes that the agreements were based on the companies' investment plans up to 2020. can such action be called regulatory certainty and a clear picture of the european low-carbon strategy? the 2008 community arrangements have not all entered into force, we have not yet seen the effects of the package agreed, i believe it is too early to set new targets for reducing carbon emissions, which is why i voted against this document.
mr. chairman, please! i voted to reject this report. the strategy of moving to a low-carbon economy over the next 40 years is highly unfavourable. the polish government vetoed the commission's proposal, arguing that further agreements should be reached after the global climate negotiations are concluded, which will take place in three years at the earliest. nor is it possible to predict at this stage the state of the european economy in the next decade. the introduction of regulations aimed at the total elimination of coal and gas from the energy sector will seriously damage my country's economy based on these resources. taking into account the economic situation of polish society, the drastic increase in operating costs associated with the implementation of this regulation will result in a significant reduction in the standard of living of the average pole. i agree with the proposal to give the commission the power to set legally binding targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and with its demand that the sale of surplus co2 be phased out.
what has been happening recently in the netherlands, where one of the political parties, which unfortunately supports the dutch government, is using the incitement of hatred and hostility towards central and eastern european migrants, who are the mainstay of the dutch economy, for its cynical political purposes, must arouse our strongest opposition. i am glad that what is happening in the netherlands has been met with such a strong and determined opposition from the european parliament. unfortunately - and i say this with great regret - the phenomena we have talked about in the netherlands are not unique to the netherlands. there are also voices against polish emigrants in the uk, voices voiced by the party sitting in this house. i appeal to the poles sitting in the epp group to appeal to their british colleagues to abandon anti-polish rhetoric.
i agree with commissioner reding's position. the portal launched by the dutch freedom party, where citizens file complaints about workers from other european countries, mainly poland, is in my opinion a violation of the entire acquis communautaire. as a polish citizen, but also as a member of parliament, i am outraged by this kind of initiative, which is a manifestation of intolerance on a national basis. my particular surprise and concern, however, is the lack of reaction to this - let's call it - embarrassing spectacle by the dutch authorities, a country that has enjoyed the excellent reputation and trust of the polish public for years. the dutch citizens are also very pleased with the attitude of the vast majority of those who oppose the actions of geert wilders' group. i would like to thank all these people and assure them of the sincerest intentions of poles both at home and abroad. i hope that such a regrettable political undertaking will not be repeated in any other member state.
mr. chairman, please! what we've seen in russia is hardly an election. and so, technically, of course, there were different candidates on the ballot, and voters could go to the polling stations, they could cast their votes. today, we hear more and more reports that there were numerous irregularities in the counting of these votes, but it is difficult to speak of free elections for more than that. first of all, candidates who were a real threat to the power camp and it must be said clearly that those who were on the ballot paper were not such a threat to the power camp were simply not allowed to participate in the elections. that is why i believe - and i regret that i could not vote for the european parliament's resolution, which contains many justified words of condemnation of what has happened in russia - that, in my view, the resolution was not enough. we should be much more vocal in defending democracy in russia.
mr. chairman, please! i think the last two speeches show how effective russia today is in building its influence agency. the fundamental problem of today's russia is the increasingly evident lack of political pluralism and the restriction of media freedom. the results of the current presidential election, even if not all candidates were allowed to participate, cannot be considered representative. the irregularities in the conduct of the elections, especially the reports of violations of electoral law, also require a thorough analysis. the achievement of the recent election campaign was undoubtedly the upsurge of russian society; its commitment and clear ambition to decide the fate of the nation must translate into a change in the way vladimir putin's regime is governed. i therefore agree with the call for the russian authorities to engage in substantive dialogue with pro-democracy protesters and the opposition and to ease the rhetoric and restrictions. simplifying the rules for registering political parties, allowing them to operate freely and guaranteeing civil liberties are also actions on which brussels should base its willingness to continue to cooperate with russia. that's why i support the resolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is here. kazakhstan plays a very important geopolitical role not only in its part of the world, but also in the whole area that we call eurasia. kazakhstan has so far been the only country that has managed to avoid the ethnic and religious conflicts that are so common in that region of the world. and for this religious and ethnic tolerance that prevails in kazakhstan, we should certainly appreciate this country. with all this concern we have been watching the events of last december - the death of protesters, events that have caused concern both in kazakhstan and around the world. i welcome all the more the fact that the kazakh authorities - as the information we have received indicates - have taken a rather hard line in holding those responsible accountable. we, the european parliament, as an organisation friendly to the people of kazakhstan, should send a clear message: democracy should prevail everywhere, no one is above the law and those responsible for these events should be brought to justice.
mr. chairman, please! christians are the most persecuted religious group in the world today. it's happening on many, many continents, and unfortunately it's happening in nigeria. we as christians, and many of you in this room, feel a sense of brotherhood as followers of christ with our persecuted brothers in nigeria. it is good that the european parliament has spoken on this. it cannot be tolerated that in the 21st century those who bring the good news, the christian news, the news of love of neighbor, of all that is good about our christian faith, are persecuted, killed, deprived of their rights. i want to say that not only are our prayers, but our actions today with our christian brothers in nigeria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is here. while we were in strasbourg, on 12-17 march, this week, the sixth world water forum was held in marseille. this distinguished group, assembled in marseilles, is debating issues of great importance to a large part of the world's population. there are areas of the world, particularly in africa, where access to water is difficult, where access to water is not available at all. so i'm absolutely inclined to say that access to water is a basic human right, that water is simply essential to life. it is therefore good that our parliament is taking a constructive stand on this matter, that the european commission is also taking a constructive stand on this matter, and from this point of view i would like to wish the participants in the sixth world water forum in marseille the most fruitful discussions possible.
in writing. - action towards a low-carbon economy must be based on real conditions, not on the ambitions of euro-bureaucrats and declarations forced on us by lobby groups. this resolution is a typical example of such negative activity. it is one thing to push for renewable energy, which i support, but it is another to push for clean and safe nuclear energy, which i support. however, it is naive and frivolous to talk about a low- or zero-carbon economy without any economic vision for the eu countries in the perspective of 2050, and without any vision for how to use available and cheap alternative energy sources, and without any vision for the future consumption pattern. i propose that the commission should employ science fiction writers for this purpose, not the european parliament. this ridiculous project has no practical future unless it takes full account of climate justice, i.e. the distribution of the global and eu climate burden based on per capita co2 emissions. because it's not, i voted no. thank you, sir.
in writing. - given the high, but unfavourable for poland and the european union, provisions of this document, i was obliged to vote against it. if the plan for the transition to a low-carbon economy were to be implemented in this form, it would result in huge costs for european industry, high energy prices for households and significant unemployment. i need not mention that it is the poorest countries in the eu that would pay the highest price for such policies. we all know the benefits of a low-carbon economy, but especially in times of economic turmoil, we should focus on areas that do not generate such high costs for industry and ordinary citizens. moreover, imposing such ambitious burdens on our economies in the context of increasing global competition is not a very sensible solution, even if it would have some benefits.
in writing. - i voted against the report because its objectives are very ambitious but also very unrealistic. we should strive to reduce carbon emissions, but not in a way that would be particularly costly for some member states. moreover, the union's post-2020 climate commitments should be conditional on a legally binding global agreement, otherwise we risk causing the opposite of the intended effects.
in writing. - the dutch freedom party (pvv) initiative of 8 february has been the subject of much controversy. its highly negative, discriminatory nature is due to the possibility of sending anonymous complaints against citizens of central and eastern european countries who take up employment in the kingdom of the netherlands. the initiative is the party's aggressive populist platform, but the current minority government is dependent on its support in parliament and has entered into a cabinet-back agreement with it. the pvv initiative itself contradicts the constructive discussion on the migration of workers from the eea and does not address the underlying problems, including the prevalent practices of temporary employment agencies. there are appropriate institutions within the dutch administration which deal with all applications and complaints in an impartial manner, without focusing on a particular ethnic group. therefore, pvv's usurpation of the right to duplicate state structures is not justified! the netherlands benefits from the free movement of persons, goods and services within the european union. the pvv initiative reinforces the stereotypical image of polish workers in the netherlands, which is contradicted by the fact that the dutch economy receives tangible benefits from their work. i therefore look forward to concrete action by the eu institutions and to a public and critical statement by the dutch government on the pvv initiative, which would be an expression of its constructive attitude in developing bilateral relations with poland.
in writing. − in february in the netherlands, geert wilders' anti-immigrant group pvv launched an internet portal where complaints and grievances can be lodged about the behaviour of central and eastern european migrant workers, particularly poles. it's a very disturbing phenomenon. the creators of the portal claim that it is only a tool to prevent negative behaviors such as crime, alcoholism, drug abuse or trash dumping, which allegedly have increased since may 2007, when the netherlands opened its labor market to the new eu member states including poland. the portal strikes at one of the pillars of the eu, which is the free movement of people, is discriminatory because it is only directed at specific nations, and potentially dangerous because it encourages hostile behaviour and instills fear among the dutch population. dutch prime minister mark rutte declined to comment on the matter, saying the site was created as an expression of the position of a single political party with which the minority government is not in coalition on so-called european issues. europe is a place of freedom where every citizen should feel safe and equal, no matter where they live. openly inciting people to intolerance and mutual hatred on the basis of subjective comments posted on the portal pages is unacceptable in a free europe. i therefore call for concrete steps to be taken quickly to outlaw the existing portal and to prevent new initiatives like it from being created in the future.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on discriminatory websites and government responses. i think the dutch government should strongly condemn the website founded by the party for freedom (pvv). the portal encourages the sending of complaints and reports on central and eastern european citizens living in the country. such actions are openly discriminatory. according to the resolution, the dutch authorities should investigate whether the invitation to submit complaints does not in fact incite hatred and discrimination. it is good that in the text of the resolution we have recognised that this party is in breach of the fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom and equality, and respect for the rule of law and human rights. the dutch government should not turn a blind eye to the populist maneuvers of the freedom party. they are contrary to the fundamental values of the european union. the resolution also calls on the european commission and the council to take a serious stance on the prevention of xenophobic attitudes such as those initiated by the dutch freedom party. both institutions should emphasise that the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia is properly implemented in all member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on discrimination against central and eastern european workers in the netherlands. as a co-author of the resolution, i thank the netherlands for criticizing the freedom party initiative as going too far in its xenophobic intentions and expecting the portal to be closed, and my colleagues in parliament for condemning the anti-immigration portal. in this house, we share the idea that all men are equal. we do not agree with hate speech, intolerance, discrimination and exclusion promoted under populist slogans. the data show that the main source of discrimination today is the media, especially the internet, which ensures anonymity. the internet has become a very important channel of communication that allows us to plan and take action in the real world. we need to turn this situation to our advantage. our governments therefore need to take concrete action to ensure, inter alia, that national law provides effective means to prosecute online crime; to establish or expand educational programmes in schools to address these issues, including european social and educational campaigns to strengthen social acceptance of immigrants; and to ensure that action against crime does not jeopardise freedom of expression.
in writing. − there is no doubt that this portal is breaking the fundamental values on which europe is founded today by recalling the worst of historical memories. the dutch government should immediately stand down and condemn this whole thing. by not doing so, he is doing a tremendous disservice to his country's image.
in writing. - the xenophobic side of the pvv must be unequivocally and fully condemned. we cannot allow this kind of behaviour to take place in the european community. the debate over this reprehensible idea is also a debate over the limits of free speech. a freedom that in this case has been brutally violated by prejudice caused by fear. unfortunately, the dutch authorities are also unable to overcome this fear. there is no clear condemnation of the site and its creators. this is all the more so since it is a breach of the arrangements agreed under the equinet structure. it was set up to strengthen action on equal treatment at european level. today, as a member of the european union, the netherlands has quickly forgotten its obligations. in europe, there is a dangerous trend towards restricting access to the single market for people from new eu countries. the stinking ideas of suspending the schengen zone, of introducing work-hours limits for central europeans, or of racist websites, smell of the mental rot of their creators. that's why our response is crucial. commissioner viviane reding and commissioner cecilia malmström should have intervened long ago and clarified the compatibility of the translations and transcriptions on the website with european community law. i hope that the european parliament will adopt a resolution condemning the authors and demanding the closure of the portal. i also hope that our debate today will move the dutch prime minister to admonish the coalition.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the results of the presidential elections in russia, partly because it included important amendments concerning the situation of political prisoners. amendment 17 filed by the ecr group calls for a review of the investigation into sergei magnitsky. the amendment approves the order to the prosecutor general to review 32 criminal proceedings, including the one concerning mikhail khodorkovsky. in addition, the request for a re-investigation of the case of sergei magnitsky is of great importance for the promotion of democracy and the rule of law in the russian federation and is an important symbol for the magnitsky family.
in writing. - i have decided to support the european parliament resolution criticising the conduct of the presidential elections in russia, as there are clear signs that they were not organised in accordance with democratic standards. the organization for security and cooperation in europe and golos an independent non-governmental organization studying the transparency of elections in russia are alarmed that during the last presidential elections, irregularities occurred during voting and counting of votes in one out of every three polling stations. independent observers have alleged that the election result was manipulated through the so-called carousel, which involves transporting voters to different polling stations and voting multiple times by the same people. voters were also to be bribed and ballot papers were to be poured into ballot boxes. many opposition candidates were refused registration to run in the elections. during the election campaign, a clear disproportion in access to the media was also noted in favor of vladimir putin. at the same time, i am pleased with the growing civic activism of russians, whose voice for the democratization of their homeland is becoming more and more heard. i also hope that the pre-election promises of the current russian government, especially those concerning the improvement of the rule of law, respect for human rights, ensuring the independence of the judiciary, as well as the fight against corruption, will be fulfilled.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the republic of kazakhstan plays an important role in the security and stability of the central asian region. the country has also become an important partner for europe because of its economic and raw material potential. the current cooperation and political dialogue with astana requires the need to negotiate a new agreement to replace the expiring partnership and cooperation agreement. the need to strengthen and deepen economic and political relations seems to be fully justified. unfortunately, the recent events surrounding the brutal pacification of striking oil workers in the city of zangaozen have cast a shadow over the country's credibility. while we are hopeful that the president will try to clarify the circumstances of this shameful act, the authorities are still far from engaging in a constructive social dialogue. the violations of freedom of expression and the arrests of opposition figures and media representatives are particularly worrying. on that basis, i have voted in favour of the abstention.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? in voting today on the resolution on kazakhstan, i was guided by the essence of the explanation of the investigation into the zangaozen case, while at the same time wanting to underline the importance of the european union's relations with kazakhstan in the field of, inter alia, economic cooperation. it is of the utmost importance that the mutual benefits of wider cooperation must go hand in hand with the political and social dimension. i would also like to point out that kazakhstan is the country most successful in introducing european standards in central asia.
i would like to condemn in the strongest terms the horrific practice of trafficking in human beings and their organs that is taking place in the sinai peninsula. bedouin tribes take advantage of the dramatic situation and precarious status of refugees fleeing war and famine to israel or europe. an estimated 10,000 refugees crossed the border between egypt and israel in 2011, but we don't know how many were smuggled. the world health organization has identified egypt in one of its reports as a regional hub for human organ trafficking. in 2011, medical sources said that there may be as many as 1,500 illegal organ transplants performed there each year. the reasons for the growth of organ trafficking are corruption, poverty, ignorance of patients, total lack of medical ethics. unfortunately, this illegal criminal market is growing all the time. both egypt and israel must finally take legal action to fight these organized criminal groups that currently go unpunished. i also ask commissioner ashton to deal with this matter as a matter of urgency.
madam president! the european parliament is here! the issue of human organ trafficking and human trafficking is something that must be of the utmost concern to us. of course, it's good that we're on this case. we must pursue the perpetrators, we must prevent doctors from participating in this procedure, in violation of the hippocratic oath. but we must also recognize the deeper causes of this terrible practice, namely, war, unrest - especially in africa, where the greatest influx of refugees is coming from - and poverty. so we can address this terrible practice both by tackling its specific manifestations, by punishing, by trying to find out who is involved and who is the main beneficiary of this, but also by helping to combat this terrible practice by contributing to the growth of wealth and, above all, to peace in africa.
madam president! i too feel that the european parliament would have more important things to deal with today than the unfortunate incident which is taking place between israel and the palestinian authority. i mean, i think it's incredible that they're complaining about the freedom of the press. well, i want to tell you that in israel there is freedom of the media, israel is a country where not only the media can freely criticize the government and they do it very often, but in the israeli parliament there are mps who fight the government, who are in opposition to it, but there are also palestinian mps, arab mps who are against the existence of the state of israel in general. israel sets democratic standards that we would all be happy to see applied throughout the arab world, and unfortunately, they don't. i have to say that one of the petitioners today, mr. murphy, who used the language of violence in this house, is in some ways compromising at least some of the petitioners of this resolution. i want to say that this language, in which the masses are called to overthrow the capitalist order, is the language that has brought boundless suffering to the people that i represent, namely the polish people, the russian people, the whole of central and eastern europe. it is a language that still brings suffering to the cuban people and the north korean people. i want to say no to communism!
the israeli attack on palestinian television stations on march 7 is another unnecessary act of aggression and an unfortunate episode in the ongoing conflict in the region. israeli authorities claim that the signal broadcast by palestinian television stations was interfering with communications at ben gurion international airport, and that the intervention was triggered by the station's failure to respond to previously sent warnings. the palestinians have taken the raid as an act of suppression of free speech and a violation of their rule in the west bank. tv stations have been broadcasting for a long time, and before that, somehow, their signal didn't interfere. israel must respect the existing agreements with the palestinian authority established in oslo. only peaceful, non-violent, means of resolving the conflict can bring about tangible results and ensure lasting peace and stability in the region. every nation has the right to self-determination and its citizens to live in peace. two separate states for two different peoples is the only way to resolve the long-running conflict. i therefore call upon both sides to immediately resume peace talks in accordance with the guidelines agreed by both states.
on behalf of the s&d group. inspired by the success of protests in egypt and tunisia last year, bahrainis also took to the streets in droves, launching a wave of anti-government protests demanding a constitutional monarchy and an end to discrimination against shiites. as a result of the violent attack by police and security forces on the demonstrators on february 17, 60 people were killed and more than 3,000 were arrested. the bahraini authorities continue to crack down on the public, censoring the media, limiting access to the internet, restricting the right to freedom of association and assembly, and even restricting the free movement of citizens and humanitarian aid. in the face of ongoing repression, we demand an immediate end to the violence and call on the bahraini authorities to restore basic freedoms and civil liberties. only constructive dialogue with the public can help to develop solutions that will allow the state of emergency in the country to be overcome.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. your highness! i believe deeply that there are no areas of civilization, no nations, no religions that are more or less predestined to live in freedom and democracy. so it was with such joy and, frankly, with such emotion that i watched what was happening in the arab world last spring. the echoes of that spring, that breeze of freedom, have reached bahrain as well. i do not deny that the king of bahrain and his regime have made some concessions, that they are trying to at least give the impression that they understand that they have to meet the expectations of their people, but this is definitely not enough. i want to say very strongly that it's not enough what's happening in bahrain today. they still won't let independent observers, independent journalists, in, it negates the goodwill of the king of bahrain, so to speak. i also want to say that we cannot talk about freedom, about justice, if the people who tortured and killed innocent people just a year ago, who simply wanted more freedom, are not held accountable.
in writing. in 2011, bahraini cities became the scene of regular clashes between protesters and police and military. the events began on february 17th, when the security forces attacked peaceful anti-government protesters. after this unjustified aggression by government forces, events took a very bad turn for thousands of the country's residents. the list of human rights violations in bahrain by its authorities is long. the violation of the basic values is directed at those involved - even indirectly - in last year's events. the problems that led to today's discussion are, first, the unjustified arrests of the country's citizens - including children. secondly, the use of torture, ill-treatment and abuse of detainees, including fatal cases of tortured detainees. another problem is unfair trials, where the right to a defense, including the right to counsel, is denied. they end with disproportionately high sentences, which are designed to intimidate potential critics of the monarchy. repressions against teachers, students and faculty members, and the dismissal of people who took part in last year's demonstrations are commonplace. it is important that europe agrees that the events taking place in bahrain should be condemned. political pressure must be applied to conduct that is consistent with fundamental values. this is a clear signal that we are all held to the same standards.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the enlargement report on serbia.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union, despite the severe financial crisis, is continuing its enlargement process. i am particularly interested in the balkans. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which is a member of the european union. the country as the report shows, has made clear progress in democratic and legislative reforms. some of the provisions of the resolution are difficult to accept because, on the one hand, as in paragraph 30 the general complaint is made to the serbian authorities that during the preparations for the equality parade scheduled for 2 october 2011 they showed a lack of political will, and on the other hand, in the same paragraph, the freedom of expression is unlawfully interfered with, denying, among other things, the right of a jurist or clergyman to express opinions in accordance with his own convictions. while we reject the extremist attitudes in this country, we must remember that the issue of tolerance raised in this report should also concern the criticised christians, and that too intrusive suggestions from parliament can disrupt the whole process of integration.
mr. chairman, please! following the recent signing of the accession treaty with croatia, the granting of candidate country status to serbia is another element of the enlargement strategy towards the balkans. the republic of serbia has for some years been fully committed to the path towards eu membership, including by seeking to redress and clarify the unfortunate events of the last two decades and improving relations with its neighbours. i strongly advocate the opening of accession negotiations as soon as possible in order to speed up the integration process as much as possible. the extension of the visa-free regime will be an excellent instrument for developing cooperation with all member states. the commission has already adopted a communication on the future of the european union's external relations. its enlargement in 2004 and 2007 strengthened the community's position in the fight against the subsequent crisis. as the world's largest integrated economic area, it now generates over 30% of global gdp. internal trade in goods and services has contributed to an increase in average income and a reduction in unemployment. i believe that the accession of more countries will contribute to the prosperity of european societies. the invaluable asset of each enlargement is the increase in stability and security across the continent.
mr. chairman, please! the last few months can be considered extremely important for the future of the western balkans. the area, which until recently was a constant concern for europe, is now beginning to stabilise. once again, the eu's enlargement policy has proved effective. the prospect of membership itself is causing the countries of the region to make a great effort to try to bring their legislation and economy into line with the rules in force in the community. of course, they do so with varying degrees of success, but it is to be appreciated that they have shown great determination to overcome the difficulties they face. this is particularly evident in the case of serbia. the country experienced years of war, economic blockade, ineffective and authoritarian governments is beginning to undergo a positive evolution. the very fact that a compromise was reached with kosovo shows the determination of its politicians to stay on the european path. that is why belgrade should feel our clear support, should see that we appreciate the effort that is being made. this is especially important now that the economic crisis is affecting the local community and there is growing frustration and discouragement. we can't leave serbia alone with its problems. we should be particularly interested in the development of serbian youth.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank you for this rich debate, which has demonstrated the continuing support of the house for the european union integration process of serbia. i have heard a lot of statements on a number of issues, some of which have been mentioned repeatedly. however, when i heard the expression ‘ethnic cleansing’ i looked round, just to make sure that the country we were talking about was serbia and the year we were talking about was 2012. as the commission and the council have declared, we intend to monitor closely the protection of minorities in serbia and work hand in hand with the relevant international and european stakeholders, in particular the osce and especially its high commissioner for national minorities, and the council of europe. the commission will report on these issues in the next progress report, to be issued in october 2012. i have taken good note of your wish to see serbia move rapidly to the next step, the opening of accession negotiations. i fully subscribe to this objective, provided the criteria are fulfilled. we will therefore, as always, carefully monitor and assess how serbia fulfils the particular criteria, in particular the state of play in the key areas of democratic institutions, judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, human rights and the protection of minorities. regarding the key priority – the improvement of relations with kosovo – we will be looking at several aspects: the implementation in good faith of agreements (as already mentioned), progress on outstanding issues such as telecommunications and energy, and active cooperation with eulex to enable it to exercise its function throughout kosovo. it should also be clear that new controversial issues should be avoided – for instance, serbia needs to refrain from holding local elections in kosovo. i am glad you agree with the merits of the new approach for chapters 23 and 24, which will in time also be applicable to serbia. i sincerely hope, as you do, that, on the basis of the strong foundations laid by serbia in order to achieve candidate status, we will open another very dynamic phase in the next stage of our relations with serbia.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr kazin, i would like to thank you for your report. the enlargement of the european union is a success story for the european union and europe, and after this good debate i look forward to continued strong cooperation with the european parliament under our presidency, not only on serbia's eu integration process but on all countries with an eu perspective. the granting of eu candidate status to serbia is the result of serbia's solid reform efforts in many difficult areas. serbia has in a short period of time implemented important reforms, particularly in the areas of the rule of law and fundamental rights, and has fully satisfactory cooperation with the icty and strong commitment to regional cooperation. progress in belgrade, the pristina dialogue will be of great importance not only for serbia and kosovo but for the whole region, and the recent breakthrough is an example to follow. it is pragmatic solutions, not fixed positions, that are essential when difficult conflicts are to be resolved. there is a continuing need for progress both internally in serbia and externally, including in belgrade-pristina relations. progress towards eu integration is, as we know, merit-based. the progress of serbia will be assessed next in the commission's progress report for the autumn. i hope that we can open accession negotiations with serbia as soon as possible. in today's discussions we have touched upon a number of areas where reform is needed. let me just highlight some key issues: it is vital to continue the fight against corruption and organised crime. serbia has made great strides in the fight against organised crime and has worked well and actively with neighbouring countries, leading to a number of important arrests. there is no doubt that effective cooperation with neighbouring countries is important in view of the cross-border nature of organised crime. in this area the serbian authorities have made important efforts and i hope that the authorities will be inspired by the success of the fight against organised crime to make extra efforts to fight corruption, where there is still much work to be done. on the economic side, structural reforms are needed to boost productivity, reduce public deficits and mitigate the impact of the international economic crisis, especially on the most vulnerable sections of society. in this context, it is positive that the serbian government has taken important initiatives to promote the growth conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the very great effort that serbia has made to contribute to regional reconciliation. over the past four years, the government, headed by president tadić, has made a decisive contribution to healing the wounds of the wars of the 1990s. in this way, it has contributed to the prospect of a brighter future for the whole of the western balkans. the european union must of course recognise and support this, while at the same time doing everything in its power, in parliament, the commission and the council, to encourage serbia to remain on the reform path so that negotiations with the eu can start more quickly.
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 29 march 2012. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. as a person from a country that a dozen years ago was in a similar situation to serbia today, i fully understand how our slavic friends from the danube states feel. serbia is a country that has built european civilization with us, sharing the same christian values, and often having to shed blood for them. just as poles remember the pivotal battle of vienna with the ottoman empire, serbs are proud of their sacrifice during the battle of kosovo. today serbia is a modern state that has made tremendous political, economic and social progress. the tragic 1990s are over for the balkan countries in the 21st century serbia is developing dynamically into a democratic and open country that has become the leader of the region. i therefore fully support the report which will encourage the european council to open negotiations at such an important moment for serbia before the elections, which will hopefully finally show that serbian society is also looking towards europe. at the same time, i call on the european union, in its efforts to accept serbia, to fully respect its traditions, its cultural heritage and the values rooted in the society of our serbian brothers.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the enlargement report on kosovo.
mr president, (i am proud to say that this is the first time i have been able to say 'mr president' to a friend of mine for many years.) i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to say that the report drawn up by the rapporteur is a good, balanced report and worthy of support. the rapporteur's report shows the rapporteur's deep commitment and knowledge of what is happening in kosovo. kosovo is obviously not an easy issue, it is not an easy issue and it is and will be for many years a great challenge for the european union, for the international community in general, because we are not the only ones involved in building, in helping to build this state, in reforming this state. and it is very good that this report emphasizes that the kosovar state has already done a lot on the way to building a normal state organization, to repairing or building from scratch the legal system, building the various institutions necessary for this state. but i would like to draw attention to one general point: what will happen in kosovo, the success of kosovo, is also an example for other countries, it is an example of the effectiveness of the european union's policy, an example that will be important for other balkan countries and for the entire western balkans region.
mr. chairman, please! this year i would like to focus on one very important aspect which is also addressed in this report. these are trials of journalists who are arrested under various pretexts, for example under the anti-terrorism law for allegedly spreading views and propaganda of terrorist organizations because of their work on topics that are uncomfortable for the authorities in ankara. the anti-terrorism law has a very big impact on freedom of expression of journalists. under articles 6 and 7 of the law, it is enough for a journalist to publish information about a kurdish demonstration to go to prison. the arrests are a fact and as the european parliament we must insist that the trials against journalists are conducted in a transparent, lawful and appropriate manner. unfortunately, we still do not have accurate data on the number of journalists detained and the number of cases currently pending against journalists. work on reforming the constitution and the penal code is ongoing. however, the solution will not be to abolish existing regulations. turkey needs to change its approach to the application of existing law. even the best-designed legal regulations cannot ensure justice and respect for human rights without a reasonable interpretation of them.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i thank mrs oomen-ruijten for - as my predecessor said - a very good, balanced report, showing both the positive developments of the past years and months and the challenges that we and turkey are facing together. we must all be aware of one basic political fact: we are negotiating turkey's accession to the european union, and so are germany, austria, france, greece and cyprus. if we do, then - as i recall - all the accession negotiations in history have led to the country's membership of the european union, as the turkish authorities declare. we must certainly answer the basic question: do we want turkey in the european union? one more thing for our friends in cyprus. i would like to appeal to you to look at certain processes from the point of view of history. poland and germany have been at war for centuries, and today there are no better partners in the european union than poland and germany.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs rie oomen-ruijten, on her excellent work on this report. i am all the more pleased that many years have been wasted without any concrete action on enlargement for turkey. the stagnation so far only adds to the problems my colleagues have been talking about, rather than solving them. the action plan now proposed, on the other hand, gives hope that we will start a common path on both sides towards turkey's rapprochement with the european union, towards better standards in the settlement of disputes. as the commissioner rightly pointed out, we have a lot in common, so it is worthwhile to work on enlargement which will bring turkey closer to europe. it is in our interest to support, encourage and cooperate with turkey in various fields to solve the problems. i believe in turkish democracy, which is the only way to ensure that the dignity of turkish citizens is respected and their rights are respected, and to solve the problems of some member states, as my colleagues have pointed out.
on paper. turkey is an example of a successful economic transformation in the middle east. turkey's gdp growth rate, which has averaged over 6% per year since 2009, is impressive. in view of the eurozone crisis, the development gap between turkey and europe is therefore closing rapidly. according to the imf, in 2010, turkey's economy was the 16th largest in the world. the large advances in economic development are made possible by a favourable demographic profile and continuous productivity growth. turkey's strategic location at the junction of three continents - europe, africa and asia - plays a key role in stabilising this highly volatile region. as a member of nato, turkey is a very important partner for the eu in its efforts to create an area of stability and prosperity in its immediate neighbourhood. turkey's biggest shortcomings remain in the areas of democracy and human rights. the reforms introduced by prime minister erdogan's government seem to be mostly cosmetic and aimed at softening external criticism. the commission has also been active in promoting the rights of women and minorities. in addition, in the case of turkey, there is no real assessment of the past and many legal solutions adopted are not reflected in their implementation. without resolving turkey's historical disputes with its neighbors or its national minorities, it will be difficult to create a prosperous future.
in writing. turkey is a strong and important player in the international arena today. it is an essential part of the puzzle that gives the european community the prospect of energy independence. it is also an important economic partner and a market of 77 million for our products. for all its merits, turkey is still the country that did not condemn the first mass genocide in 20th century europe - the armenian genocide of 1915-1917. it's a very poor country, with a huge disparity between the western and eastern parts of the country. the state of media freedom is inadequate, as is the respect for human rights. the northern cyprus issue also remains unresolved. this is one of the reasons why turkey's accession to the european union seems totally unrealistic and illogical. it would be a failure of the community's pillars of human rights, the common market and cohesion policy. the eu and turkey must remain economic partners, and we should therefore seek to facilitate trade between the eu and turkey, to build joint infrastructure projects such as the nabucco pipeline, but still remain separate legal entities without the possibility or need for further integration.
mr. chairman, please! the report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2013 sets out the administrative needs and challenges that our institution will have to face in the coming year. in the face of the global economic crisis, citizens also expect parliament to be more responsible and budgetary restraint. i am therefore pleased that my colleagues in the committee on budgets have overwhelmingly supported my amendments to reduce the unnecessary costs of hundreds of millions of euros per year associated with the three places of work of the parliament. our institution should have one seat for members and officials. we therefore call on the council to take account of our demands and of the series of citizens' actions aimed at ending the incomprehensible and very costly travel of members and officials for the sake of parliament's three seats and to propose appropriate treaty amendments. the cost of the official delegations based in luxembourg travelling between the three places of work alone will amount to almost eur 30 million this year. to this must be added the further unnecessary expenditure associated, for example, with the planned construction in luxembourg of the gigantic kad office building for 6 000 civil servants, the cost of which is so difficult to estimate that no construction company has wanted to undertake it and parliament intends to act as developer itself. if we are serious about saving money, now is the best time to abandon this byzantine project and move the civil servants to the place where the mps work, which is both logical and understandable for citizens who are constantly asked to tighten their belts. finally, i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to my colleague, derk vaughan, on a job well done.
in writing. i agree that the european parliament should limit its work to a single office in brussels. this is where mps and officials focus on every day. a change like this, as you can see, brings big savings. and the european parliament should have the right to decide its own working methods. i am also in favour of measures to enable members to make effective use of the tools based on the use of new technologies and to support the legislative process more effectively, in particular by introducing a knowledge management system. it would also be appropriate to use videoconferencing, which would allow further reductions in travel costs for both members and staff.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president! - what are you doing? in times of crisis, good corporate governance is particularly important, governance that is transparent, economical, predictable. and that's what the report says, and that's why the report is important to us today. i have to say that i was disappointed to see that the report did not take a more rigorous approach to the question of the proportion of women in management. we already know that soft means of achieving this do not work and that is why i am very pleased that mrs reding is now talking about hard, firm amounts, as the commissioner has also said today. unfortunately, that is not in the report on which we are voting tomorrow. today there was a great deal of discussion at the ppe meeting, we had different views, but the proponents of hard and fast quotas won out decisively and i am very happy about that, because they are not a restriction on freedom and economic freedom, on freedom of enterprise. they just make the boards more socially responsible. and we know from various studies that boards and companies that have a greater gender balance have better economic outcomes. i hope we can get the numbers tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: when we look at today's sebastian bod's report - and any other report, really - we must always ask ourselves: what do we really care about? if we want to improve the functioning of the european business sector by introducing sensible and above all free market-based changes to corporate governance, we should support the report by our colleague mr bodo. i agree that european companies must take care of their economic performance in times of crisis - because they are the ones who generate employment - and also of broader social and environmental issues, but also of their own shareholders. the provisions negotiated by our rapporteur are conducive to greater transparency, stability and credibility, while at the same time promoting the socially responsible management of european companies. i am aware, of course, that some members find these recommendations too soft and insufficient. but i'm going to go back to the question i asked at the beginning. are we interested in proposals that are unrealistic but sound very nice, or are we interested in real change? i believe that the provisions on governance and action, both in terms of technical and substantive aspects, and the implementation of the 'observe and explain' principle and the corporate governance code by all companies will help to create a better, more functional system. it should be borne in mind, however, that the application of corporate governance principles does not exempt undertakings from the risks borne by each economic operator in relation to its activities. good governance is governance that is reasonable and sustainable, and that takes into account the interests of all stakeholders. let us remember that we are also talking about private companies, companies operating in the free market of the eu, companies that we so often and so much like to boast about.
in writing. i believe that it is extremely important in the context of the corporate governance framework for european companies to ensure a more stable and transparent sector. naturally, in times of crisis, every corporation prioritizes its economic performance to survive in an increasingly difficult market. however, i believe that we should not forget the human factor, because ensuring high standards, both social and ethical, is a factor that contributes to greater productivity in the company, with which the worker always wants to identify. the application of the solutions proposed by the rapporteur could have a decisive impact on the improvement of the european corporate market. proposals to introduce certain qualitative conditions in the boards, such as emphasising that its member possesses a wide and diverse range of skills, and in particular competence, will contribute to the more efficient development of the corporation. on the other hand, the suggestion of a greater influence of the shareholder on the functioning of the corporation by extending its role could revolutionize the qualitative dimension of the functioning of corporations.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to tell you about the rejection by the polish national radio and television council of the lux veritatis foundation's request to grant a place to the catholic television trwam on the digital multiplex. i would like to draw attention to the lack of respect for the equal competition rules of operators on the market in poland and the discrimination against the media due to their catholic character. it is clear from the concession procedure that of the four licences finally awarded for the multiplex, two were granted to broadcasters of music programmes, which constitutes a flagrant breach of the principle of the open and pluralistic nature of broadcasting. in the grounds for the decision, the national council for radio and television nevertheless emphasises the uniqueness of their offer, whereas none of the entities granted the concession has a religious programme in its offer. the fixed and current assets and balance sheet of trwam tv are many times higher than those of competing stations that have received these seats. these facts clearly indicate a violation of the fundamental rights of the european union regarding free and independent media. i therefore believe that both parliament and the commission have a duty to deal with this matter.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament has for months called for the extension of the anti-crisis effort to include economic stimulus. the adoption of the fiscal compact should be a symbolic end to the phase of cuts and restrictions. what is needed now is action to boost competitiveness, create jobs and in the medium term restore growth in europe. the internal market should of course be a priority for these activities. at the end of this year we will be celebrating 20 years of the internal market. but there are still more than 150 obstacles to its full realization, to its full development. a new eu budget for 2014-2020, which must have at least the same level of appropriations as the current financial perspective, will certainly be a useful tool in the process of returning to growth. the claims of some countries net payers that the eu budget should be reduced in times of crisis are unfounded. on the contrary, there is evidence that we are able to generate more value added at eu level than through individual national action.
mr. chairman, please! a public hearing was held today in parliament on the circumstances of the smolensk disaster two years ago. two years ago, a tragic plane crash in russia killed the president of poland and 96 people, including the country's political elite and top military officials. despite the passing of two years, the circumstances of this tragedy have not been clarified to this day. there have been attempts, requests, appeals for substantive and political help in solving this painful, tragic case. we hope that the european union - in the name of protecting the overriding values, which is true - will help and support the various efforts to move this matter forward. there are serious problems in gaining access to evidence and to the wreckage of the aircraft which is still in russia. i hope help doesn't come too late, and the truth finally comes out.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i take note of the importance many of you have attached to the future of the file on the private programme. i agree that the european union’s social dimension takes particular importance in a time of crisis, uncertainty and hardship like the present situation today. the unemployed, the vulnerable and the socially excluded expect europe to show solidarity and help them in practical and clear ways. the main eu instrument to support the employability and inclusion of the most vulnerable members of our societies will, of course, remain a strong european social fund. that is why the commission proposed a guaranteed minimum budget for the esf representing at least 25% of cohesion policy and that at least 20% of the funding for each member state should be allocated to social inclusion measures. we also proposed that the european globalisation adjustment fund be maintained and strengthened as a way to show real solidarity with newly unemployed workers in particularly difficult circumstances. in the commission’s view, a programme to assist the most deprived people in europe should form part of these efforts. the harsh reality is that there will always be people in our societies in need of a programme of this kind and that is why the commission’s proposal for the multiannual financial framework seeks to allow the eu budget to continue to finance full assistance under heading 1, where it also fits more appropriately with the poverty reduction target of the europe 2020 strategy. this would also be the best way to solve the legal impediment which was raised against the current scheme. as you know, discussions among the member states on the legal basis for the current programme revealed difficulties in finding agreement on eu financial support for full assistance. the commission had to take note of this, of course, but we will not give up on our right of initiative. to conclude, in our view the eu budget could support full assistance in the future as well in the framework of a wider effort to fight poverty. the commission is currently looking at various options on shaping the future programme within the cohesion policy framework in a way that maximises the impact of the support the various cohesion policy funds can deliver. we still need some time to work out a model which is both effective and realistic. let me close by thanking parliament for its very helpful contribution to our work and for raising this point for debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on 15 february this year, we decided by voting in the second reading to continue the programme of food distribution to the most deprived persons in 2012-2013, i.e. until the end of the current financial perspective. during the debate on the future of the programme, parliament repeatedly expressed its strong support for the continuation of food aid in the next financial perspective. in a resolution adopted on 7 july 2011, we called on the commission and the council to 'find a way to continue the programme for the most deprived during the next funding period 2014-2020 on a legal basis that cannot be challenged by the court and to maintain the annual level of funding of eur 500 million to ensure that those who depend on food aid are not affected by food shortages'. i would also like to recall that, before our vote on 15 february, commissioner andor, on behalf of the european commission, replied to a question from the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs, mrs berès. this question concerned the future of the programme in the next financial perspective. in reply to this question, commissioner andor stated that, in the next financial perspective, the food distribution programme should be financed under the heading of the first budget where, in the commissioner's view, it would best contribute to the europe 2020 objective of poverty reduction. the commissioner stressed that the commission would exercise its right of legislative initiative in due course and bring the issue of the future of the programme to the budgetary negotiations. for parliament, this statement is unequivocal. the commissioner's statement is particularly relevant in the context of the non-legally binding declaration of the european commission of 6 december 2011. the declaration issued by the commission under pressure from opponents of the programme on the occasion of the compromise reached in the council on the future of the programme for 2012-13 states that the commission takes into account the opinion of a significant number of member states not to continue the programme beyond 2013 and without prejudice to the right of legislative initiative contained in the treaty. the commission will take into account strong opposition to any legal or financial proposal for the future of this programme. although this declaration is not legally binding, it still remains... (the president cut off the microphone)
in writing. one of the three priorities of the europe 2020 strategy is inclusive development. the number of people at risk of poverty is to be reduced by 20 million by 2020. it will be difficult to achieve this goal by ending the food distribution program for those in need. the european commission has launched a new programme to support the development of the european audiovisual industry. its value will be eur 500 million per year until at least 2013. we have a very well-run programme in our country to help the poor, with 20,000 volunteers, 7,000 ngos, food banks, caritas. the number of people in need in poland is large. in poland, 2 million people are still living in conditions that allow them to satisfy only the most basic needs, and 5 million are living in very difficult living conditions. today, 4 million people in poland are benefiting from the food aid programme. they receive food products, including flour, porridge, and canned goods. in 2011, there were 21 product types. it should be noted that the food aid programme is profitable in several areas. in addition to supporting people at risk of poverty and social exclusion, it is an important component of farmers' and agri-food sector's income, and eu food aid for those in need should therefore be maintained.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy rightly recognises that reducing the number of poor and socially excluded people is one of the union's development priorities. it is estimated that by 2020 the number of people at risk of poverty will be reduced by 20 million. i believe that it is important in this context to maintain and finance food distribution in the union to those in need. the eu budget currently allocates eur 500 million per year to this purpose, benefiting 18 million people. the main beneficiaries of this programme are the people of poland, where 4 million people receive aid in the form of free food products. these are as basic as porridge, flour, or canned goods. in poland, more than 20,000 volunteers and many non-governmental organisations are involved in the programme to help the poor. it should be noted that the implementation of the union programme not only means concrete, tangible support for many poor people, but is also important for agricultural producers, farmers' incomes and agri-food processing enterprises. all of this is a reason for the union to maintain and finance this programme from its budget.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. commissioner, mr. president, i'm not going to let you down. congratulations on taking on a new, important, perhaps increasingly important, role. first of all, i would like to stress that from my point of view - both as a member of the committee on budgetary control, but above all as a politician from a poor country like poland - it is particularly important that the european investment bank continues and clearly increases, as part of its priorities, its support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are in fact the part of the economy of each country that makes it possible to withstand the crisis more easily. big companies are in big trouble, small companies can be more resilient, but they deserve support, they deserve help. the 100,000 small businesses that you've supported are not enough, 10 billion euros is not enough. call for more! i would also like to say that the european investment bank should be an investment bank, that is to say, one which also expects these investments to pay off. projects must not be ideological in nature. i have the impression - i'll be very honest - that some of the projects related to combating global warming, to reducing co2 emissions, are more ideological than economic, financial.
in writing. as vice-chairman of the committee on budgetary control, i am satisfied with the performance of the european investment bank in 2010. i particularly welcome the measures to finance environmental projects. in particular, increase the burden on energy efficiency experts to 64% in 2011 and include this issue in the bank's priorities for 2011-2013. this is a positive step that strengthens the achievement of the 2050 low-carbon economy targets. at the same time, as a member of the envi committee, i believe that the bank should place more emphasis in the near future on projects that support the development of public transport and water management and promote biodiversity. the european investment bank also supports small and medium-sized enterprises in the central and eastern european member states. this aid increased by 25% in 2010 to eur 14 billion. at the same time, the disbursement of loans for convergence increased by 30%. this is an important trend contributing to the sustainable development of the union which should be maintained. however, in order to maintain its credibility, the eib must strive for maximum transparency in its operations. to this end, a website, a simplified document language, a system of control and monitoring should be used. it is also important to introduce criteria to allow a real assessment of the effectiveness of the funds spent, rather than just focusing on quantitative data.
on behalf of the s&d group. the report on removing obstacles to citizens' rights in the european union, published by the european commission in october 2010, focuses on the 25 biggest problems citizens face when exercising their rights in a cross-border context, identified through an analysis of 300 petitions from the last 3 years. the most common difficulties faced by citizens are caused by complex legislation, excessive bureaucracy, poor law enforcement and a simple lack of goodwill on the part of the authorities of the country concerned. in recent years, we have seen an increasing number of problems with the right to free movement - 25% of all petitions. it is important that every citizen of the union in another member state feels secure, knows his or her rights and is not exposed to any discrimination on grounds of race, nationality, religion or sexual orientation. i congratulate the rapporteur on a good and useful report which i hope will have a positive impact on the situation of the people of our common european home.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. there's a lot of good stuff in that report. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the report has unfortunately become - probably as a result of amendments by individual members - a concert of wishes. it's become chaotic and a lot of things have been incorporated into it that shouldn't be there. article 10 of the report states that it proposes the harmonization of national social security systems and the convergence of taxation rules. what is the point of putting this in a report like this, of calling for us to unify tax systems or social security systems? this should be a matter for the national states. the governments of poland, sweden, germany and other countries should decide what taxes poles, swedes and germans should pay. the council is also being asked to ensure that the member states have sufficient budgetary resources to organise the event this year. i would remind you that the budget of the directorate-general for communications has already allocated one million euros to go around and celebrate this year. it didn't make sense, and it shouldn't have. that is why my group will vote against this report.
in writing. – i fully endorse ms valean’s report, which in a practical way addresses the often glaring gaps between what eu citizenship delivers on paper and what citizens encounter in reality. the main problem of course is that eu citizens are unaware of their rights and are therefore not in a position to object when these are denied to them. the ‘your europe’ website, mentioned several times in the report, is an excellent one-stop shop to find out about europeans’ rights as citizens and business people in a variety of situations and every effort must be made to promote it. well-informed citizens are an essential ingredient in a fully-functional single market. we meps play an important part in conveying this information to our constituents. in this report we also call for public consultations to be made available in all official eu languages, as we did in the kraków declaration following the single market forum 2011. an accessible and pro-active consultation policy is a must for meaningful engagement with citizens. we must not rest on our laurels but get to work to lift the barriers identified here which are preventing europeans from enjoying their rights as eu citizens.
in writing. it is very important that the european parliament, the institution which is de facto closest to the citizen, has a say in removing the obstacles to citizens' rights in the european union. in our petition committee, it's what we call a living wage. citizens regularly come to us and point out a number of barriers that prevent them from enjoying their rights as citizens. the most vulnerable are the disabled, who face many obstacles every day. they have difficulty accessing the normal use of the education system, insurance or public transport. a coherent system for determining the degree of disability in the european union is needed, the lack of which often leads to social exclusion. public authorities have a duty to identify and remove obstacles and barriers to the enjoyment of citizenship rights by persons with disabilities. access to facilities and services available to the general public, including transport, public institutions and places of public education and information, is not a privilege but a right of all citizens. we must not forget that, and it is our duty to ensure that such situations do not occur.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! as you remember, two weeks ago in strasbourg we postponed the vote on the statement on belarus by two weeks. this was done the day after lukashenko waived the right to pardon two defendants in the attack on the minsk metro. i argued then that this would be read in minsk as a sign of weakness. i'm afraid that's what happened. the day after we postponed the adoption of this statement, the death sentences were carried out by firing squad on these two young people who were accused of the attack in minsk. i believe this is a lesson in how to deal with belarus and lukashenko. i hope that we will never again back down in our efforts to ensure that belarusians live in democracy and freedom as they deserve. i call for a vote on this resolution today. i hope and i'm sure it will.
madam president! i would like to make a very brief reference to the words of mr migalski. i do join the call to vote on all the amendments and the text of the resolution today, but i do not agree with his assessment that our decision two weeks ago was a sign of weakness that led to the execution. it was probably made before our decision, at the beginning of the strasbourg week. executions are carried out in belarus in secret. we don't know exactly when it happened. so it's a bit of a stretch to suggest that our decision two weeks ago has made this situation worse. we were hoping two weeks ago for a change in belarus policy. it didn't work. today we are giving a clear signal of our disapproval of what is happening in this country. i urge you to vote in favour of this resolution.
madam president! when we talk about refugees too often, i feel we fall into demagoguery from both sides. because, of course, those who say that very often the right to political asylum is abused by people who are actually emigrating for economic reasons are right. but on the other hand, you have to remember that you can't, as they say in poland, throw out the baby with the bath. well, i come from a country where, over the centuries, many people have had to flee for political reasons and have found refuge in other countries. europe is attractive because it is a place of freedom and should be welcoming to all those who defend freedom in their countries and cannot live in them.
madam president! i voted in favour of the report because, as a person who is generally sceptical and cautious about further regulation, i believe that in this particular area, where we are talking about very complicated things, cooperation and regulation can be fruitful in reducing risks. i would like to say that the risks to financial markets are one of the reasons why european citizens and investors have less confidence in our continent today, and this is reflected in the crisis we are all facing.
madam president! no position of the european parliament, no call for austerity and no appeal to the citizens to have more faith in the european institutions will be sincere and effective unless we carry out, once and for all, the reform that will lead to the european parliament having one seat. i do not want to say where the european parliament should be sitting: in brussels or in strasbourg. but i think that today all the arguments that were at the heart of the community's founding, that there should be two places, are no longer valid. today, the great task of german-french reconciliation is accomplished. today, the two european parliament seats are a very clear symbol of the distance between our institutions and the aspirations of the average european union citizen.
madam president! what has happened recently in belarus, the execution of death sentences, which has been the subject of much debate, is yet another example of how much the belarusian people are suffering today under the yoke of a cruel dictator like alexander lukashenko. what has accompanied the demonstration - it must be said today - of the trial of the alleged perpetrators of the terrorist attack in the minsk metro, unfortunately, does not inspire confidence in the justice system in belarus. but also what happened after that terrible sentence, which was to prevent a family, a mother from burying her son, is something that was respected in our civilization even by the worst dictators. today, lukashenko doesn't even respect the pain of a mother after losing her own son. i would like to say at the end that unfortunately this arrogance of lukashenko would not have been possible without the notorious help that this dictator is receiving from the kremlin.
madam president! we sometimes feel a little helpless when we talk about belarus, because there have been so many resolutions in this house about this country. but we cannot ignore the fact that the situation is getting worse, not better, there. first of all, many political activists in the opposition have been prevented from having any contact with europe, with the world. they're not allowed to leave. many of those who would have wanted to modernize and change this country were put in prison. and this latest event, which has already been mentioned by mr. kaminski, the death penalty that has been carried out, raises our worst fears about the direction in which this country is developing. it is difficult to accept the execution of the death penalty, and even more difficult to accept the failure to respect the minimum standard of the family's right to bury the body of their loved one, even if the person was convicted. it is the duty of the european parliament to call for the release of all political prisoners, for democratization, even if we sometimes doubt whether our call is effective.
madam president! the serbs deserve to be a political part of our european community, because they have been a cultural and civilization part of it for a very long time. i voted for this report because i support serbia's aspirations to be in the european union. i believe that the attachment of serbs to their values, their attachment to their national and cultural values will strengthen all those in the european union who, while enjoying european integration, point out that the peoples in the european union should preserve their identity and cooperate peacefully for the common good. i would therefore like to call on the authorities in belgrade, while also recognising the progress made in serbia in many important areas, to continue to be strongly pro-european, but also to fight hard against corruption and organised crime, so that the serbs can enjoy as soon as possible the same opportunities as other nations in the european union.
madam president! serbia has made tremendous progress, which we have highlighted in this report. i voted in favour of it because i believe that serbia has a place among the member states of the european union. at the same time, i also welcomed the granting of candidate status to serbia for accession to the european union. this decision will strengthen the efforts of all those behind this choice. i would also like to mention a personal moment of mine when i was an observer on behalf of the council of europe in the constitutional referendum. at that time - a few years ago - many young serbs did not believe that the european perspective was open to them. we tried to convince them that. it seems to me that today's report and the granting of the status of a candidate country to the union is precisely the answer to their earlier doubts. i am deeply convinced that their efforts will not be in vain and that in time we will be able to accept them as members of the european union. i wish them well.
madam president! i have a great problem with voting on the so-called enlargement of the european union with kosovo, because i believe that kosovo will be in the european union as serbia will be in the european union, because i do not recognize and i do not find in my conscience any argument for this terrible violation that has been committed against the serbian people through the forced and supported internationally by unfortunately a part of the countries, a large part of the countries, the european union, the secession of this serbian province from its homeland. i want to say that today kosovo is not just a hotbed of organized crime, but also a place where the persecution of ethnic serbs living there is taking place, as well as the persecution of religious orthodox, for whom this land means a lot. so i want to express my absolute conviction that kosovo is part of serbia and as part of serbia it should be in the european union.
madam president! i have one, actually two problems with turkey. i have no problem with turkey's membership of the european union, provided that the problem is solved, which i believe is a clear violation of european solidarity: how can we propose membership of turkey in the european union when it supports the occupation of the sovereign territory of one of the members of the european union, namely cyprus? on the other hand, turkey still has huge problems with the implementation of the rights of national and religious minorities. on the one hand, we have a big kurdish problem, and on the other hand, there is still persecution of christians in turkey. without the resolution of the two problems i have mentioned, namely the occupation of cyprus and the problem of national and religious minorities, there can be no question of turkey's membership of the european union.
madam president! the balkans need to be stabilized. the european union has undoubtedly been expanding everywhere since its inception in western europe. it has been a zone of virtually unbroken development since then. although we are in crisis today, it has nevertheless been a zone of unbroken development and above all of peace. it seems that the balkans also need the development and peace that the european union brings wherever it operates. while appreciating the successes, despite the many difficulties, that have been achieved in the republic of montenegro in the fight against corruption, in simply introducing better governance, i support and endorse this report.
madam president! while i fully support women's access to politics and the professions, i too always have doubts whether quota solutions, if in some sense force, are trying to achieve this legitimate postulate that all sexes are treated equally. the history of our civilization shows that wherever we try to do some kind of social engineering, very often we get the opposite of the intended effect. that is why i voted against this principle. i supported this report despite my initial fears that it would lead to excessive regulation and bureaucratic interference in business and i think that this type of interference is not good. i think this report is a good compromise and that is why i voted for it.
madam president! i abstained on this report, although i very much appreciate the success of the european investment bank's work so far. however, in my view, the main criteria for assessing the bank's performance should be economic criteria, economic criteria, because banks - and i think this should be the case - are supposed to make money by granting loans, but also, in the case of a bank like the european investment bank, simply to promote economic development on our continent. i'm against imposing on banks, or on business in general, even the most ideologically sound solutions. i lived 18 years of my life in a country where economics didn't matter, but ideology did, and the poles and many other middle class and european people learned firsthand that it's very bad when ideology replaces economics.
madam president! i had a big problem with that report. on the one hand, there are things in it that cannot be dismissed. in general, the very fact that we are dealing with civil rights in the european union is something to be respected. but i voted against the report because i think that too often, alongside the absolutely right things, we are also dealing with things in it that i do not even want to judge whether they are right or wrong, but should be the exclusive competence of the nation states. it is dangerous and unfortunate for me that the level of harmonization of our development paths within the countries of the european union should be greater than in the united states, where individual states seem to have more freedom in certain matters than this parliament would like to impose on the member states of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will help to harmonise the law in this area. passenger rights are currently governed by regulation (ec) no 261/2004 and regulation (ec) no 1107/2006, as well as by the judgments of the court of justice of the eu in this context. our aim is to achieve the greatest possible transparency of the binding rules and to strengthen the rights of air passengers. common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding or cancellation or long delay of flights are essential to ensure that passengers using air transport in the union are adequately insured and that their rights are respected. i am therefore convinced that further action in this direction will contribute to ensuring the rights of air passengers.
in writing. − given that an increasing number of european union citizens place a high value on their mobility, both for work and for leisure, it is of the utmost importance from our point of view to ensure the highest possible quality of travel. the air route is of great interest to our citizens because of its significantly shorter travel time and convenience. it is therefore essential to ensure the full range of travellers' rights. the european parliament has already introduced a set of rules to protect air travellers through its legislative powers. as we know, airlines often exploit loopholes in the law by manipulating the final ticket prices. as i, too, as a traveller, believe that everyone has a right to fair treatment on a paid air ticket, i will always support such proposals and i voted for the report again.
in writing. − i have decided to vote in favour of the report on the review of two regulations: establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or delay of flights and on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility travelling by air. in view of the ever-increasing number of people travelling by air, it is urgent to adopt regulations to better protect passengers' rights. the report therefore calls for more transparency and clarity in passenger rights information at all key stages of the journey. passengers should be able to correct obvious errors made when placing an order or even to cancel their ticket altogether within two hours of purchase. the commission should also be able to provide information on the progress of the implementation of the schengen acquis, in particular on the progress of the implementation of the schengen acquis and the progress of the union's external action. in addition, the airlines must be obliged to deal with all passenger complaints within a maximum of two months. the european commission should also set up a central website with information on passenger rights available in all official languages of the european union. i am convinced that the implementation of the recommendations contained in the report adopted will contribute to improving the situation at airports.
in writing. - i am pleased to have adopted the document for which i was the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group. during this review, we had the opportunity to draw the attention of the european commission to a number of irregularities at european airports. we want the new commission proposals to address these problems. we should make air travel better, safer and cheaper for all passengers travelling in europe. the most important points for passengers are the possibility to correct obvious errors in ordering or even to cancel a ticket within two hours of purchase, the prohibition of airlines charging unnecessary fees for credit card purchases and the enforcement of the rights of parents travelling with small children. i believe that the european commission will be sympathetic to parliament's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties can help to combat tax fraud in the european union. my task is to ensure that such actions are of great importance to the european economy and thus to the citizens of the union. the prevention of tax fraud can have a positive impact on the state of citizens' wallets in the long term. cooperation between member states is necessary and desirable in this respect. moreover, the pursuit of a well-functioning fiscal union within the european union contributes to the equalization of disparities in commodity prices and thus to the improvement of the well-being of all union citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of another important step towards a single seat for the european parliament, joining the majority of my fellow members. this is another step towards eliminating the costly problem of the three seats of the european parliament. the initiative now rests with the council, the governments of the member states. it is high time to start renegotiating the treaties, which will allow us to focus on the abolition of two of the three seats of the european parliament. in times of crisis and widespread budget cuts, this is all the more necessary. neither the citizens nor the meps accept the current situation. it is time for the leaders of the member states to become intolerable too.
in writing. −we had a discussion on the european parliament's budget for 2013. the european parliament's expenditure is forecast to reach eur 1.759 billion, an increase of 1.9% compared with 2012. the vast majority of this expenditure concerns parliament's staff, which will be 6,713, and the maintenance of the ep's buildings in brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg. i think there are ways of reducing this budget and looking more radically for savings. first, the leadership of parliament and the council of the union should limit the seat of parliament to a single place where not only members but also officials can be gathered. the current situation generates additional costs of several hundred million dollars a year and is unsustainable. secondly, i cannot understand why, with the scale of the movement of mps and officials - tens of thousands of flights a year - parliament cannot negotiate airline fares for the biggest european carriers. we pay more for tickets than we do for tickets purchased individually, like online. i think that needs to be changed radically.
in writing. the lisbon treaty establishes a new institutional balance. it is based, among other things, on the assumption of the parity of parliament and the council in the legislative and budgetary functions. the logical consequence of such a regulation is the need to bring the ep's rules of procedure into line with the treaties. there is no doubt that it is necessary to exclude from the existing powers of parliament the possibility of addressing questions to the council which relate to those functions, since the institutions are equal in those fields and work closely together. the procedure for successive readings and the submission of amendments is a de facto mechanism replacing and reinforcing the 'control' questions to the council. the continued operation of these provisions would be an unnecessary duplication of legal institutions. the proposed amendment also leaves parliament with the power to ask specific questions to the council concerning its other functions, namely policy-making and coordination. it's the right thing to do. it protects parliament against excessive council arbitrariness in this respect. it strengthens the democratic control of the council by an institution that is the expression of the will of the eu's citizens. in view of the need to democratise the eu, an important element of which is the strengthening of the institutional position of the parliament, such amendments should be adopted.
in writing. − this is not the first time we have discussed human rights violations in belarus. the repressive measures imposed by president lukashenko’s government on the people of belarus were the subject of the last five resolutions we adopted on the country. last month we debated the trial and verdict of mr dzmitry kanavalau and mr uladzislau kavalyou, two men who were dubiously found guilty in the terrorist attacks of 2005 in vitebsk, and 2008 and 2010 bomb attacks in minsk. these men are two victims of the oppressive regime, but sadly not the only ones. belarus is today the only country in europe that still carries out the death penalty. its active prosecution of political opposition, civil society, the media and human rights defenders further contributes to the country’s isolation. we prefer diplomacy over sanctions, thus the eu is ready to use the assistance and cooperation tools available to negotiate with belarus. but we are also ready to maintain sanctions imposed on belarusian officials and on companies that directly finance the regime, and further extend them if our calls remain unanswered. the current resolution confirms our commitment to the belarusian people, as well as our affirmative approach towards the government, therefore i voted in support of it.
in writing. - i consider the vote on the resolution on the situation in belarus to be one of the most important of the day. i supported the joint motion for a resolution that was postponed two weeks ago. for reasons i cannot understand, my colleagues from the s&d and ppe groups postponed the vote, considering that the regime of alexander lukashenko should be given time to change its policy. the two boys accused of the attack on the minsk metro were executed the day after the plenary session. i therefore considered it extremely important to support the resolution which calls for the relocation of the world cup of hockey from belarus, the release and rehabilitation of political prisoners and respect for human rights, and condemns the expulsion of eu and polish ambassadors from belarus.
in writing. − there can be no progress in the eu-belarus dialogue unless minsk makes progress on democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and unconditionally releases all political prisoners. the deteriorating situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in this country must change. unfortunately, despite the territorial proximity, the european union and belarus share a wide gap in political and social standards in many areas. the persecution of human rights defenders and members of the democratic opposition, and the politically motivated harassment of civil society activists and independent media in belarus, shows us that cooperation is impossible, despite our deepest desires. how can you work with someone who just doesn't want to work with you? today's resolution is a democratic and peaceful expression of our views. it is therefore important to make clear our disapproval of any acts that violate fundamental values. the strong cooperation between the 27 eu countries and non-eu countries is a solid basis for promoting these values. and through our engagement, we can achieve the goal of starting the process of democratization in belarus.
in writing. − the polish presidency was actively involved in the idea of establishing a european endowment for democracy. such action by an institution independent of eu diplomacy seems to be highly desirable, especially in the face of the increasingly rapid changes in the community's neighbourhood. i consider the creation of a new fund to be a more effective measure than making changes to existing programmes. experience shows that parliament's involvement is conducive to similar initiatives, and that it is therefore a good idea to involve meps in the work of the governing council. this will also guarantee a voice for all member states. by voting in favour of this report, i am voting in favour of democratic change in countries around the world. through the fund, we will be able to support specific associations and groups playing key roles in the political transformation processes in their countries. it will also be an excellent instrument for sharing european experience in this field.
in writing. − the european endowment for democracy (eed) will be a key institution for europe's contribution to the democratisation of authoritarian states, both in the immediate neighbourhood of the union and around the world. the report adopted today gives the rapporteur, mr alexander lambsdorf, to whom i extend my warmest congratulations, a strong negotiating mandate in the work of the edf working party chaired by the european external action service. the edf should be a fund that works closely with the eu but is independent. the edf should have an expert structure allowing for a rapid and flexible response. it is intended to serve the building of civil society and the political capacity of the democratic opposition before and during the transition from authoritarianism to democracy. therefore, the edf should also support unregistered opposition circles, which are often not recognized and opposed by non-democratic states. the lack of such an instrument was exposed by the events of the arab spring, when it became clear that the only strong opposition political players in the countries of the region are religious groups. in the eastern dimension, the opposition in belarus, for example, needs significant assistance. i wanted to remind you that the eed is a proposal of the polish ministry of foreign affairs. the idea of establishing the eed was based on poland's experience of democratic transformation. thanks to western financial support, polish solidarity and other opposition groups - not recognized by the communist regime, formally non-existent - were able to develop and fight for democratic change. we should give others the same chance now.
in writing. − the creation of the european endowment for democracy was an initiative of the polish minister for foreign affairs and one of the main priorities of the polish presidency. i am pleased with the progress made in its creation and implementation. i supported the report on this fund because i believe that the recommendations contained therein will be of particular value to the council. parliament must have a guaranteed influence on the fund from the planning phase to the possibility of bringing it to justice. as vice-president of the committee on budgetary control, i place particular emphasis on 'designing' the instrument with full respect for the division of budgetary responsibilities. like other eu institutions, the fund should be obliged to submit annual reports to parliament and to publish a list of its beneficiaries. this will facilitate transparent financial administration.
in writing. −the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo was a violation of all international rules, and i cannot therefore agree with the provisions proposed in the introduction to the report. today's kosovo is a parapality that is still a bone of contention between serbs and albanians. we cannot accept further integration of the balkans without dealing with this issue and without listening to the arguments of the serbian side. the central government is unable to maintain order within the borders of the state, and the spread of crime, especially organ trafficking, is a threat to the european union. the first thing we should do is to solve the problems and stabilise the situation, not to integrate the balkans without regard for the consequences.
in writing. - turkey remains a strategic partner of the west in both security and the economy. as a member of nato for 60 years, it has worked together for stability and peace. it is also an important access channel to the caucasus and caspian liquid fuel deposits and the planned nabucco gas pipeline is a key element of the union's energy security. the economic potential of this country determines the development of the entire region. although the neighbourhood policy is mutually beneficial, turkey remains the only candidate not to benefit from visa facilitation. i believe that it is in the interest of the whole union to extend this programme. last year's parliamentary elections showed ankara's ability to emerge as a democratic power based on the participation of the vast majority of the population. the integration drive was expressed in the creation of a ministry for eu affairs. i welcome all the measures taken to protect religious minorities, especially christians. cooperation with turkey is an important pillar of europe's security strategy. i support the resolution.
in writing. − promoting the development of the single market, reducing disparities between regions and supporting projects that contribute to the achievement of european union policy objectives are important objectives of the european investment bank. the approved business plan for the bank for the coming years identifies three main areas: the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, the fight against climate change and the support of the european union's external policy. these issues should be the focus of the bank's most active strategies and activities, which should focus primarily on being a 'european bank'. the prolonged crisis and the associated credit constraints have a strong impact on the demand for funds to finance modern development and job creation. without adequate funding, the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth will be difficult to achieve. the bank's capital needs are therefore not limited to the capital needs of the bank, but also to the capital needs of the bank. it is also worth looking at the issue of small and medium-sized enterprises. the current eu policy emphasises their important role in job creation. supporting the sme sector is crucial to the recovery of the european economy. finally, it is worth considering the report's considerations as to whether the european union should become the next shareholder of the european investment bank, alongside the member states, which could result in enhanced cooperation between the bank and the commission.
in writing. − for years, there have been calls for the eu to become more democratic, with a citizen element to be added to ever closer economic cooperation. the next stage was the lisbon reform, which clarified the concept of 'european union citizenship' and established an open catalogue of the rights deriving from it. given that the introduction of amendments to the treaties is only the beginning of the 'opening up of the union' to citizens, the institutions face the important task of creating legal arrangements to enable the treaties to be implemented. the commission's report summarises one year of these activities. it identifies 25 basic obstacles to the exercise of civil liberties and rights. it is important to stress that the lack of exercise of citizens' rights results in a situation where citizens do not fully enjoy the freedoms of movement and the benefits of the 'european project'. the report identifies the obstacles and sets out the actions that the commission should take to remove them. the commission and the rapporteur agree that the main reasons for this are the low level of awareness among eu citizens in the member states and the insufficient enforcement of existing rules, especially those resulting from directives. the lack of legal form seems to be a secondary factor, although this does not mean that it is invalid. the proposed actions, such as the creation of information points, the launch of the e-justice portal and the adoption of subsidiary legislation on family and succession law, are appropriate ways of addressing the problems discussed. the resolution must be unanimously supported.
in writing. - we are all citizens of the european union. there is no doubt about that in the field of declarations. the problems arise when we come to concrete, detailed solutions. the citizenship report is a very good guide to the main problems faced by union citizens in countries of which they are not nationals. the report also contains a number of important recommendations for the commission and the member states, the implementation of which will contribute to the more complete implementation of the principle of free movement of persons. all of this has led me to support this report. at the same time, i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the polish government to fully ratify the charter of fundamental rights, that is to say to withdraw from the so-called british protocol to the treaty of lisbon. only this will ensure that polish citizens can fully exercise their rights in poland and throughout the european union.
in writing. - i supported the eu citizenship report 2010. it has been 20 years since the creation of citizenship of the union. today, we can enjoy, among other things, seamless border crossings, cheaper telephone calls, study, work and live in another member state. however, eu citizens still face difficulties abroad when exercising their rights, and these have to be overcome. a large number of complaints concern matters relating to access to social security benefits. in addition, 48% of eu citizens feel that they are not sufficiently informed about their rights. eu institutions must focus on better, appropriately funded communication with citizens and member states at local and national level in their efforts to strengthen eu citizenship. it is necessary to promote online information points, such as 'your europe', information and problem-solving networks set up by the commission, such as direct, solvit, european consumer centres. the new eu portal 'e-justice' is also a valuable compendium of information on legal mechanisms in the member states. the year 2013 has been declared the european year of citizens. this is the right time to inform european citizens of their rights, especially the new ones resulting from the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i also draw attention to the promotion of the european citizens' initiative, which will give citizens the opportunity to be actively involved in shaping european policies and european legislation.
in writing. − citizens often face obstacles in their daily lives in a united europe. these include healthcare formalities or simply the registration of a car. the european union should help to eliminate the problems involved. in addition, eu citizens are often unaware of their rights when they are outside their country of residence or of the laws on basic consumer protection rights. as a result, they are not satisfied as consumers. the current rules on consumer protection should be adapted or, for example, a so-called common set of rights for travellers should be provided. in some eu countries, eu law is not applied properly to the right to free movement within the union, and burdensome administrative procedures are being created by some countries in contravention of eu law. other important obstacles to working in another member state are the existence of different social security systems and insufficient cooperation between national social security institutions. eu rules on the free movement of persons and the dissemination of information among union citizens should therefore be strictly respected.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, since 1983, when the european parliament began adopting an annual report and resolution on human rights, this house has done more than any eu institution to focus on such issues. while we may sometimes disagree about how best to champion respect for human rights globally, we stand united in our aim: to see a freer world, where people’s dignity is respected – wherever they may be from – and for the eu, and the external action service in particular, to play a key role in supporting people’s struggles for their rights. allow me now to turn to the report by richard howitt which is before us today. first of all, i want to congratulate him for achieving consensus across the political spectrum on this report. i believe it is essential reading for me, my colleagues in the commission and my colleagues in the council. the very first paragraph of the report is about coherence between the internal and external policies of the european union – one of the main themes from the communication of december. it is a particularly important theme for parliament this week, since on thursday it will hear statements from the council and the commission on the european union’s accession to the european convention on human rights. honourable members, ‘coherence’ might sound dry, but this really does mean that human rights can be woven into everything we do, in europe and beyond. it means making sure that people everywhere benefit from the same universal rights, regardless of who they are or where they live. the report also highlights the importance of accountability and the importance of our work in developing, in serious situations, the accountability that we have. i will pick out two themes that in a sense are very important both for coherence and accountability. firstly, the role of women, especially as yesterday i met michelle bachelet to talk about the role of women and to sign agreements with un women on how to go forward and support women across the world. secondly – especially at the present time – discrimination against people of faith, including christians, and those who have other beliefs. tolerance is at the heart of the european union, and that is why we need to strengthen our policy on the freedom of religion or belief, which is fundamental to a free society. the european union must work continuously for the widest possible ratification, acceptance and approval of, and accession to, the rome statute. that work is progressing. so far, we have signed three bilateral agreements, including icc clauses, and initialled another three, and we are negotiating another 15. we have also included icc clauses in many of our enp action plans. we have the power to promote human rights by placing countries and regimes on a scale stretching between engagement and isolation and using human rights as a method of measuring how we should address our relationships with different countries. human rights have never been more important than they are now, nor indeed have they ever driven so many changes. if we simply look, for example, at what is happening throughout the middle east and north africa, men and women, young and old, representing the whole of society, have found the courage to assert their fundamental human rights. some have been prepared to give their lives for freedom, dignity and a better future. i should like to pay tribute to all of them now. the changes that they have brought, as mr howitt has said, required the eu to develop a new response to a changing neighbourhood. i believe we have risen to that challenge. human rights and deep democracy are at the heart of our new approach, and i believe our partnerships with our neighbours are stronger and healthier as a result. our work at the un human rights council has also helped to reinforce and support these positive and domestically-driven developments. at the 19th session, which concluded on 28 march, the european union resolution on syria was adopted with a record vote of 41 in favour, out of a possible 47. our resolution on human rights in burma/myanmar was adopted by consensus, as was the resolution on freedom of religion or belief. the session was a success for the rights of individuals, who too often find themselves marginalised and ostracised. the successful panel on ‘violence and discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity’ was a remarkable achievement, for which all credit is due to south africa’s leadership, together with ban ki-moon. it is unacceptable that 80 states still criminalise same-sex relations between consenting adults, and that seven even foresee the death penalty. this is totally incompatible with international human rights law. i believe it is very, very important that barbara lochbihler and laima andrikienė were able to attend the human rights council, where they addressed eu heads of mission and met with a wide range of international representatives. this is just another example of the important role of the european parliament and the important way in which it is seen to promote human rights in the world. my communication of last december was designed as a contribution to what is an ongoing discussion within and between eu institutions on a more effective and comprehensive approach to human rights and democracy. now that there has been time to consider what i put forward, i look forward to working with you on the shape of our future strategy. as i confirmed to the committee on foreign affairs on 20 march, work is in hand to pave the way for the appointment of a special representative for human rights as part of a package to put into practice the joint communication. it is important that this person be someone with a strong track record on international human rights. at the same time, as was discussed at the ‘gymnich’ meeting of foreign ministers, we want to agree a political declaration on what we want to achieve, and we want an action plan on how to put this into practice. this will bring together new initiatives as well as others that we have already launched. i am happy to confirm that the network of human rights focal points is nearly complete: 116 eu delegations now have someone, and many have two, in both their political and cooperation sections. on all of this, i want to work closely with the honourable members. the review of eu human rights policy was first announced in this house. the appointment of a special representative was championed by this house. it is therefore natural that ongoing work on human rights and democracy should be in full cooperation with this house. i have written to the chair of the human rights sub-committee to ask her to work with me to ensure the fullest possible participation in the drafting of the joint declaration. to end as i began, i pay tribute to mr howitt for his work and i pay tribute to the european parliament for its continuous work in support of human rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. although this annual report should have been adopted as early as december 2011, it will be considered in spring 2012. however, this is justified because we are considering them in conjunction with the new european policy on democratisation and human rights, which is a consequence of the communication addressed to parliament by the high representative catherine ashton last december. a lot happened in the field of human rights in 2010. at the same time, we cannot accept this report without being shocked by the impact of the arab spring, which is changing our approach to supporting democratization and human rights. the new approach to supporting democratization processes seems to me to be a synergy of the arab spring experience and the new approach that emerges from the provisions of the lisbon treaty. i welcome the report by mr richard howit. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i would like to thank you for your very good cooperation. in particular, i would like to stress the critical reference to the violation of human rights in belarus, including the rights of convicted persons. it was also said here in parliament: people sentenced to death also have the right to be treated with dignity, to a fair trial, and their families have the right to information about their loved ones and the right to a dignified burial. in this context, i also welcome the positive step taken by belarus in releasing two political prisoners, andrei sannikau and zmicher bandarenko. it also welcomes the latest euronest resolution adopted in baku, which concerns the respect of human rights in the partner countries, including ukraine. i welcome the very positive reference to the establishment of the european endowment for democracy an instrument to support democratic processes both before, during and after democratic transition processes. the report condemns the increasing persecution of religious minorities, especially christians, in the world. there is no tolerance for the burning of temples, for murder, or for any other persecution of christians and other religions in the world. the report highlights the special role of the initiative for cooperation between ombudsmen from the eastern partnership countries and the union, organised by ombudsmen from france and poland. it's about promoting good practices that help respect human rights. finally, reference should also be made to corporate social responsibility, in particular in the context of human rights, especially in the context of trade relations with countries that are neighbours of the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen! this year's report on human rights in the world is a clear step forward in some areas compared to previous documents. this is especially true of the way in which religious freedom is viewed. religious freedom is an inalienable human right, its fundamental character being reaffirmed in the un and council of europe conventions. the widespread violation of this right, especially among christians, is a dramatic violation of human rights in the world. one year after the arab spring, we can speak of increasingly real threats to entire christian communities in the middle east. we must constantly remind our political partners in the region of this. it would be tragic if christians were the first victims of the democratization that is so desired in this part of the world. we find it difficult to agree with the criticism of france and the united kingdom on the accession of the european union to the european convention on human rights. this operation threatens to create a clear conflict of jurisdiction between the luxembourg and strasbourg courts, and could lead to an uncontrolled expansion of the jurisdiction of the european tribunals. the report should be free of any reference to so-called reproductive health. these records are a pretext for promoting and funding abortion worldwide, even in countries where the practice is illegal. this is a huge abuse of the trust of citizens and member states, who have never given the european commission such powers.
madam president! i would like to congratulate my colleague richard on his excellent and comprehensive report. it is impossible to address all the relevant aspects of this issue, so i will concentrate on women's rights. women around the world are the main victims of discrimination and inequality, are humiliated and exposed to violence. while gender equality is reflected in the eu's human rights priorities, the treatment of women as second-class citizens is still tolerated and insufficiently addressed. i therefore call for the european instrument for democracy and human rights to be used to combat all aspects and forms of violence against women, i.e. physical, psychological, social, economic and political violence. women's rights must be a priority in negotiations with all candidate countries. it is necessary to keep reminding the turkish authorities that the persistence of violence against women - including honour killings and early and forced marriages - is a major obstacle to turkey's accession to the european union. it is also important to combat selective abortion, female infanticide and female genital mutilation, and to promote health education and programmes on sexual and reproductive health and rights, which are recognised as priorities in the european union's development policy. i call on the european commission and the member states to address violence against women and the gender dimension of human rights violations at international level.
madam president! the first point, and perhaps the most important, is that we often talk about countries in transition, about the need for economic reform and so on. last week i heard from yulia tymoshenko and yuri luzenko in prison a very wise thing: the basis for guaranteeing a good human rights standard is judicial reform. we should talk about judicial reform before any other reform in all the countries where we see human rights violations. secondly, i am very pleased that the report mentions the european fund for democracy, but i am afraid that before it is born, it will be bogged down in bureaucracy. we need to act quickly on belarus, for example, and we need to make decisions on north africa. we need a little more dynamics, a little less bureaucracy, we should say that. and this is a very important point for me: we must say clearly and i appeal to members not to be afraid to say that christians are a particularly persecuted group. and that should be in this report. the ability to call things by their right names in simple matters is a measure of our credibility in many, many other matters.
madam president! i would like to begin by thanking mr howit for his report, which is a good starting point for tackling this difficult subject. the report provides a comprehensive overview of this subject in the context of european union policy. in the face of the global economic crisis, high unemployment and inflation, it is especially easy to lose sight of the most important values, namely human rights. however, the realisation of the values contained in this broadly defined deadline should always be the basic condition to be met by third countries in the case of the various forms of cooperation with the european union. economic gain, though essential and unavoidable, cannot be bought by agreeing to violate the fundamental rights of individuals and communities enshrined in the catalogue of values accepted in the european union. this is a matter of increasing relevance at the moment, especially as we are in the middle of negotiations on trade and accession with countries which do not always interpret the concept of human rights in a coherent way or deliberately violate them. it is impossible for the european union to assume the role of global human rights watchdog, but where we have the effective instruments to do so - particularly in cooperation with third countries - the protection of the values we all share here in europe should always be our highest priority.
in writing. – human rights, democracy and the rule of law are core values of the eu and its founding treaties. the union’s commitment to supporting democracy and human rights in its external policies is affirmed by the eur 1.1 billion committed to the european instrument for democracy and human rights (2007-2013). while the eu’s contribution is certainly important, so is our interest to ensure that tax-payers’ money properly serves citizens of recipient countries and the eu’s interests and values. our past experience shows that eu funds allocated to this purpose, in many cases, have yielded limited results for various reasons concerning time and effectiveness of the instruments used. with this in mind i welcome the review and analysis of the union’s policy on related matters, as presented in the eu’s annual report on human rights and democracy. one desirable outcome from the annual report would be the formation of a common eu strategy on human rights with clear definitions of the actions, timetables and responsibilities of each of the european institutions. such a strategy will certainly point the way forward to setting and attaining ambitious goals while holding the eu and recipient countries to greater accountability on the usage of funds and the results accomplished.
in writing. in line with the eu's core values, the european parliament promotes human rights in an international arena that is clearly facing new challenges in a changing world. parliament called for the inclusion of human rights and conditionality clauses in eu-supported programmes, and called on eu member states to fully engage in this process and to apply its results in national action as well as at european level. in this context, the eu's priority is to support and actively involve governments, parliaments and civil society in the process of respecting and monitoring human rights. the key is to learn from past mistakes and to move swiftly, transparently and in an inclusive manner towards an ambitious final eu common strategy with clear actions, timeframes and targets, developed with the full involvement of stakeholders, to make a positive contribution to this interinstitutional process. this process should culminate in the adoption by the institutions of a common strategy and a framework which clearly defines the roles and tasks of each institution and provides a framework for continuously assessing their implementation.
in writing. i would like to welcome the fact that human rights are becoming a priority in the formulation of european political strategies, especially in the field of external relations. ensuring the effectiveness of eu policy in this area requires a strong role for the ep, through the creation of a strong mechanism to implement its decisions. the involvement of member states is also necessary to realise the full potential of the strategy. however, the central partner in its implementation is first and foremost civil society. that is why i am deeply satisfied that the sakharov prize is being strengthened. i also call on the council and the commission to ensure that its laureates are protected wherever possible in the event of persecution. i remind you that the activists of the memorial organization, awarded in 2009, were arrested shortly after returning from strasbourg. meps should meet with human rights defenders during their delegations and seek to establish and maintain a constructive dialogue with them. the european union is committed to supporting the development of a european union-wide network of civil society organisations, including the european parliament, the council of europe, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions.
in writing. the european union rightly considers respect for human rights in the world to be one of its most important tasks. i do not want to talk about the union's activities in this area, but i do want to point out the problems that are emerging. the first problem is that the union is actively involved in this area in its contacts with small and medium-sized countries. it's much more restrained when it comes to big countries. secondly, despite the establishment of the european external action service, there are still problems in coordinating the policies of all the eu institutions. the union's representations in individual countries, including diplomats specialised in human rights, should play a key role in this area, liaising not only with local authorities but also with opposition representatives and activists fighting for the protection of fundamental human rights. thirdly, the union should support, through its scholarship and research programmes, those scientists, journalists and students who want to devote themselves to the protection of human rights.
mr president, when i was travelling for three weeks in burma a couple of years ago i kept hearing from my colleagues here in europe that i should not go there because i was supporting an autocratic regime. i am very glad that now many of us will visit this country, we will work there and we will be supporting the democratic regime by our presence – no longer autocratic in that sense. first of all, i would like to pay homage to aung san suu kyi because her victory shows the role of devotion to values and leadership in the transition to democracy. she is to burma what nelson mandela is to south africa and lech wałęsa to poland, and someone whose struggles in helping to change the nation and the ideas of people in the region have been absolutely crucial in the transition to democracy. nevertheless, we have to remember that the burmese transition to democracy has just started. the european union should acknowledge the changes that have taken place up till now. i hope that this will be treated as a sign of good will, but we can only lift some sanctions, and lift them only partially. i am very glad, baroness ashton, to hear that you are thinking about initiating many cooperative programmes with myanmar because this country has been totally closed for so many years. at the same time, i think we should press the burmese government to ensure that a new democratic constitution and independent judiciary are introduced. this is a keystone for democratic transformation. i am very happy to hear that europe will open an office there. europe should be there, and not only china.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! on 1 april 2012, by-elections were held in burma for 40 seats in the pyithu hluttaw, the lower house of parliament. the party of sakharov prize laureate aung san suu kyi national league for democracy (nld) was allowed to participate in these elections. the international community has assessed these elections as free and fair. the opposition currently holds only 6.6% of the seats in parliament (42 out of 659). i sincerely hope that the process of reform will continue. this is very important for the future of burma. it is equally important that burma's democracy be civil. we therefore urge the burmese authorities to amend the constitution and to renounce the parliamentary mandates that are guaranteed to representatives of the army. we hope that this dialogue will continue to develop and lead to profound changes. we therefore call on the council to temporarily suspend the sanctions currently in place, with the exception of the arms embargo. the sanctions should be suspended for a period of one year. in the meantime, the eu institutions should closely monitor the situation in burma. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. – while i stand with my colleagues in congratulating the strides made in burma, not only in the election but also in their clear move toward a democratic system, there still are, however, extensive problems that should not be overlooked. one such issue that is of great concern is the war that is taking place in the kachin state. there are currently an estimated 70 000 refugees that have fled fighting near their homes to live in temporary camps by the sino-burmese border. also, there were no elections in kachin, due to the fighting, and it appears this conflict will not end any time soon. the ethnic kachins are running out of food, and diseases such as tb and malaria are spreading fast, and yet the burmese government will not allow any aid agencies in to assist these people. thus i feel that we must be cautious with our praise until this situation is resolved.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! the report on armenia which i have prepared for the european parliament is, from my point of view and that of my political group, an important and relevant report. why would you do that? because in our opinion, all the countries of the south caucasus, including armenia, if they are closer to europe, if they cooperate better with the european union, if they implement european standards in their countries, they will become safer, not only from the point of view of these countries, but also from the point of view of the european union. in preparation for this report, i visited armenia and nagorno-karabakh, where i met with the authorities of both nagorno-karabakh and armenia, to get information on the ground, right there, in armenia, about the relations between the countries of this region, to get the point of view of the armenian authorities on the political situation in this region. i wanted the report you have before you, which we are debating and on which we will be voting tomorrow, to be completely objective and to reflect the whole complex situation in the region, the whole background of the conflict there, and also to indicate optimistic objectives, to contain optimistic information that shows that armenia has a chance - in the longer or shorter future, depending on the authorities of that country - to cooperate better and more effectively with the european union. why would you do that? because the negotiations on an association agreement with armenia, which started in 2010, are proceeding very smoothly. twenty-four chapters have since been closed and there appear to be no issues at this point that would threaten to dangerously prolong these negotiations. last year, armenia prepared a comprehensive reform strategy and then submitted it to the european commission for evaluation with a request for support. as far as i know, commissioner štefan füle and prime minister sarkissian are currently working on a joint programme to help improve and implement this strategy. we hope that the european parliament will be kept informed of the progress of this work. there is no doubt that the armenian authorities face a number of challenges and sometimes painful reforms. i was very keen to highlight in the report not only those areas which have already improved significantly in terms of the internal situation in armenia, but also to highlight areas such as human rights and broadly speaking media freedom which are already failing but need to improve even more. only in this way can we guarantee good relations and a speedy conclusion of the negotiations with the european union. the support given by the armenian authorities to the human rights office, which enjoys a high degree of independence, is certainly commendable. in conclusion, i would like to point out the issue of the conflict in nagorno-karabakh, which is certainly obvious to anyone who follows the situation in the south caucasus. he's mentioned in both reports, both mine and aniela jäätteenmäki's. parliament stressed the need to respect the principles set out by the osce minsk group in its joint statement of 10 july 2009 and linked the negotiation of association agreements with azerbaijan and armenia to credible commitments that would contribute to ending the conflict. i have no doubt that we, as the european parliament, will not be able to resolve this conflict, to solve this problem. it's up to both countries how they build their own relationship. but we here in the european parliament... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efd group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the caucasus is one of the most important geopolitical regions in the european union's policy. the events in north africa in recent months have shifted our focus southward. the report by mr porraby is all the more welcome. armenia in the caucasian gordian knot is a key point that, like a lens, focuses all the problems of this region. poverty, infrastructure problems, energy, the strong influence of russia, unresolved conflicts with neighbors are just the beginning of the list. this calls for a stronger engagement in the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy. more funds, stronger support and regional exchanges are just the beginning. the culmination must be to help resolve the karabakh conflict. his departure will be a source of stability for the entire region and a final limitation of russian influence. after more than 17 years since the end of the war, the region's remaining confined to ethnic armenian areas within armenia must remain a fact.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i refer to what mrs ojuland said. you mentioned that two weeks ago we were in baku and you saw how the presence of the european union is forcing cooperation, elementary cooperation, between the azeris and the armenians. that was very good. our presence there is essential if these countries are to follow their path to the west. it's also important because if we're not there, someone else will be. nature does not tolerate emptiness, nor does political nature tolerate emptiness. if we're not there, someone else will be. someone who cares a lot less than we do about democracy and the west. always remember that! i'm sure you know that, and i want you to remember that we know that, too. good luck on your journey, commissioner!
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i also want to thank mrs jäätteenmäki and commissioner füle very much for their cooperation. i thank the co-rapporteurs for their help, their constructive comments, their corrections and their good, rational discussion of these reports. after listening to these voices in today's debate, i would like to say that they have one common denominator: we all say and emphasise that the european union should strengthen its relations with the south caucasus, that it should be more present in the south caucasus, that it should be more determined to build good relations with the countries of the south caucasus. i believe that these reports will help to build such good relations, such good contacts with the south caucasus, and that this will be beneficial both for the countries of the region and for the european union as a whole. i am sure that from my point of view as rapporteur on the report on armenia, the upcoming elections on 6 may will be such a real test for the armenian authorities, their strong will, their willingness, their ambition, their determination to build a good relationship with the european union. if these elections are fair, transparent, free - which i very much believe - it will be an important sign that this country is indeed serious about its commitments to have an association agreement signed as soon as possible, to serve both the european union and armenia. thank you again for your support in the preparation of this report. i believe that tomorrow, when it is voted on, all of us here in this house will be able to say to ourselves that this was an objective report, a report that really reflects the situation both in the region and in armenia.
in writing. the south caucasus is a key area for the eu's energy diversification plans. it is therefore in the interest of the european union as a whole to take a greater interest in this area and to concentrate financial and diplomatic resources there. it's not an easy task. the cold war between armenia and azerbaijan over nagorno-karabakh continues. which is why we should be focused on resolving this conflict. the report lacks attempts to resolve the conflict and references to the current situation. the situation is so tense that since the beginning of march, the russian army has been concentrated on the border with azerbaijan, supposedly to support the armenian troops in case of conflict. unfortunately, as practice shows, today armenia's issues must also be discussed with russia. the more we engage in this dialogue, the more we have to convince both sides to make peace. the development of civil society in armenia and of ngos should also be supported, as emphasised in the report.
i refer to what mrs záborská said, that is, lukashenka and the dictatorship in belarus. two political prisoners, sannikau and bandarenka, have been released in recent days. it's a good move, but i think it's so good because the european union has shown that it can be tough and unambiguous from time to time in its condemnation of the belarusian regime. but let us not forget that there are now a dozen political prisoners in belarus and that line which has been drawn in our parliament over the last few weeks should be maintained because it has started to bear fruit. i hope that neither our house nor the european union as a whole will show weakness and what has unfortunately been the hallmark of our institution so far, namely a certain wavering, which is manifested by taking two steps forward in order to take three steps back. let us keep our opinions on this matter constant and this will bring results for the belarusians and for us.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! two years ago, a plane crashed near smolensk, russia, carrying the polish president, the top military commanders of my country, and the power elite. two years later, the wreckage of that plane is still in the hands of russia, which refuses to give it to poland. he won't give up the black boxes either. both of which are evidence in the investigation. the investigation is basically dead. it is an incredible situation that in the 21st century, there is no way to explain the causes of this tragic disaster for my country. i hope that the european union will join in this and that the international community will investigate this matter. it's absolutely necessary to clear this up.
we have just concluded the debate on the negotiation of the association agreements with armenia and azerbaijan. but with great concern - i think - all meps also welcome the situation in iran, a country bordering the region. according to media reports, the atmosphere in istanbul on saturday during the six-power talks with iran seems to be optimistic. the iranian side has reportedly indicated its willingness to engage in discussions on the nuclear programme. but i am concerned that on the other hand we are seeing a concentration of russian troops on the southern border of russia, in the caucasus. i think we should do everything we can to stop iran from enriching uranium for civilian purposes, for energy and medicine, and then continue the negotiations next month in baghdad, and at the same time keep an eye on russia's actions so that it doesn't take advantage of the focus on iran to take control of the former soviet republics, especially their natural resources.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report we are discussing concerns the coordination of social security systems. we are in favour of solutions that guarantee equal treatment of citizens, including in the labour market. therefore, the changes in the legislation should be geared towards creating opportunities for greater mobility of workers and the unemployed. these persons should not be artificially linked to their last place of employment solely for the purpose of receiving social benefits. the solutions proposed in the milan cabrnoch report are therefore to be welcomed. the pursuit of better coordination of social security systems will also allow the principle of adequacy to be applied. it is very important that in these activities and work a balance be struck between the need for competitiveness and the protection of workers. the european commission's initiative of march on enhanced protection for workers temporarily posted abroad is also linked to the subject under discussion. this is a similar subject that we will be discussing in the future, and it concerns, in a trivial way, about 1 million european union citizens who work on a delegation basis. competition and protection of workers balancing these two issues seems to be the most difficult but most necessary today, in times of crisis, when europe is facing competition on a global scale. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! when a report is presented by a colleague from the same political group, it is by definition to be applauded, but fortunately this time there are substantive reasons for this, and so i congratulate my colleague mr cabrnoch on this report. i wanted to remind everyone in this room of the hippocratic oath, the latin maxim primum non nocere. i think we should be talking in the context of this debate not just about the workers, but also about the companies that employ those workers. in times of crisis, we must not throw the baby out with the bath so that any changes are beneficial for both the company and the employees. we need to find a middle ground. otherwise, by taking care of our employees, we'll be killing companies, and they'll be firing people.
thank you, mr. chairman. as the commission rightly points out, not only the legislation of the member states has undergone enormous changes in the last few years, but above all social behaviour. increasingly, we are dealing with labour migration to other countries, cross-border work, mergers of staff in several companies operating across the union or business activities in two or more member states. however, it is worth noting that these changes are not only a consequence of the economic crisis but also of the changes that the labour market is undergoing. it is therefore necessary to update existing regulations to take account of new circumstances, to facilitate mobility and entrepreneurship for our citizens. but you have to be aware that the situation is extremely dynamic. we are not in a position at present to predict the evolution of the eu labour market over the next few years. changes in member states' legislation linked to the crisis, business transformation, the emergence of new professions and the increasing mobility of union citizens will certainly require further changes in the near future. it is therefore worth considering how to regulate the area of social security coordination universally, so that it is relatively stable and does not require too frequent changes.
mr. chairman, please! i'm directing my question to commissioner andor. there is no doubt that the exercise of freedom of movement and of employment in the european union is linked to the need to safeguard and respect workers' rights. this was also the aim of the commission when it worked on the directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. the preliminary analysis of this directive raises some questions for me. does the commission not fear that the proposal to introduce a set of criteria for assessing the actual relationship between the employer and the employee's country of origin and the temporary nature of the posting of the worker will create even greater difficulties in the interpretation and implementation of the directive than at present? many of the criteria proposed by the commission do not take into account the diversity of operators and services and may contribute to the imposition of additional bureaucratic and financial burdens, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises. is the commission concerned that the introduction of the solidarity responsibility institution in all member states will indirectly lead to a reduction in the provision of services in the european union in the construction sector, where this form of employment is most popular? fears of potential liability may lead to the refusal to post workers.
i'm not going to let you do this. in the european union, there are eight countries that have introduced the institution of joint and several liability. can you name a country where this institution is working so well and in a model way that it could be implemented in other member states? will the establishment of this institution really ensure the protection of workers' rights?
madam president! i support the report. the current socioeconomic situation in europe requires changes in the social security legislation of the member states. especially in the face of the increasing cross-border mobility of citizens, national regulations should be coordinated. it is therefore important to define the so-called 'significant part of the work' for persons changing employers in different member states. the report also addresses the issue of unemployment benefits for the selfemployed. it shall also take into account matters relating to the performance of duties by flight crew members. on the procedural side, the positive solution was to draw up the report and amendments in parallel with the negotiations in the council, which enabled agreement to be reached at first reading.
madam president! i supported this report because it is of great importance for securing the future of the people of the european union. the situation of aircrew has been raised on many occasions, but the problem of seafarers working at sea, who are often completely deprived of social security, is much more serious. the commission has also been active in the fight against fraud, and has been involved in the development of the european union's anti-fraud strategy. the absence of community and mandatory solutions has led to pathological situations excluding seafarers from the social security system. the profession of seafarer has a special role, which, because of its dangerous and extremely difficult nature, should be safeguarded first and foremost by the individual countries, but also by the european parliament. the absence of such solutions is an example of unequal treatment of eu citizens that requires urgent intervention.
madam president! i could not support this report, although there are a number of interesting, important and necessary phrases in it. we are all in favour of human rights, but the devil is in the details and of course those of my predecessors who have pointed out that there are some rather dangerous proposals and some loopholes in this report, where under the guise of human rights it is really intended to restrict the rights of certain people. i am also afraid of the double standards which are present in this report, of the situation in which the european union imposes certain measures, completely ignoring the cultural and civilizational context. i'm warning you against that. on the issue of life, abortion, i have a similar opinion to mp mikolášik.
thank you very much, madam president! azerbaijan is an important partner of european countries in the field of energy security. the nabucco project, which concerns an alternative pipeline to russian gas supplies, reflects the need for diversification of supply, which is in the vital interest of the union as a whole. the development of energy-based economic cooperation is undoubtedly a key element of europe's strategy towards its eastern neighbours. the efforts of the baku authorities to promote and implement this project require our full support. a special area is action to improve human rights policy, with particular attention to the nagorno-karabakh conflict. a stronger engagement of the union in the resolution of this conflict, including by calling on turkey to play a constructive role in this process, appears desirable. the continuation of the eastern partnership's efforts to bring about political and economic convergence and to influence european policy will benefit both sides. that is why i support this report.
madam president! azerbaijan is an important country for europe, for the european union, not only - and very strongly - because of its energy policy, as my honourable predecessor has said, but also because of its geostrategic importance. namely, it's no secret that russia is currently rebuilding its sphere of influence. azerbaijan is a former part of the soviet union. if we don't want to rebuild the russian empire, we should be active in the south caucasus region. of course, there is also american influence in this region, as well as iranian and turkish influence, but europe cannot stand idle. the closer the political - i emphasise the political - and economic cooperation of this region, including azerbaijan, with the european union, the better. azerbaijan has made progress in terms of human rights, although i stress: let's not impose such 100% european standards on this region or other regions of the world, because it will turn out that this is really raising the bar too high.
madam president! the upcoming parliamentary elections in armenia are considered crucial by european observers. i therefore hope that the planned parliament mission will have a positive impact, and that this will hopefully result in the strengthening of democratic values through the application of international electoral standards. much depends on the armenians themselves, whose awareness and commitment can have a clear impact on preventing possible electoral violations. it's all the more important that they feel confident of our full support. i am inclined to a number of recommendations, including in particular support for political, judicial and economic reforms. the fight against corruption is also a priority. the process of negotiating an association agreement should take into account the relevant demands of civil society and non-governmental organisations, developed through broad consultation. as in the case of azerbaijan, we must pursue a constructive policy on the nagorno-karabakh conflict. thank you, sir.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. armenia is, i remind this honourable house, the oldest christian country in the world, older even than georgia. but let's be clear, at the moment, if we take the countries of the south caucasus into account, this is the area of greatest russian influence in military, political and economic terms. however, we should have our fingers crossed for this country, which is following the difficult, difficult, bumpy, sometimes uphill, path to democracy. i hope that the next parliamentary elections will be a turning point in this process. the european union should support these efforts. armenia, in a cultural and civilizational sense, is part of our european heritage. so we should all be more supportive of this country.
in writing. - asean is a very important international organisation. in pursuing its objectives of cooperation for economic growth and social progress and the promotion of peace and stability, it is a centre of strength and influence in its region. it is also now a valuable trading partner of the union. i consider it to be in our vital interest to accede to the treaty on mutual relations and cooperation if we are to aspire to play a political role in this part of the world commensurate with our potential. the unquestioned powers - the united states, china, russia and japan - are already parties to the treaty, which clearly shows how clearly their interests in this area clash. at the initiative of brussels, the signatories have made a key change to enable the entire union to join the treaty of an international organisation. in the light of the foregoing, it is with full conviction and in the hope of tangible political and economic benefits that i give my consent to the accession of the european union to this treaty.
in writing. - a european council decision three years ago gave irish people legal guarantees in response to concerns about the right to life, family and education, as well as taxation and, in particular, security and defence. since the heads of state or government also established that this decision is legally binding and will apply from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and also agreed on the content of the provisions proposed in the draft protocol, the council's request not to invoke the convention seems justified. the specific provisions of the protocol essentially regulate the most important aspects of the agreements, and i therefore welcome the decision to consider amendments to the treaties. i voted in favour of the report on the agreement not to convene the convention and the report on the consultation on the draft protocol. i believe that all the political agreements reached in the council in the wake of the ratification of the treaty of lisbon must be respected.
in writing. - i voted against it. the outermost regions defined by the treaty are the overseas territories of three member states: france, spain and portugal. it is therefore not a field directly concerning the community as a whole. i do not therefore see the need to favour these regions over many other regions in continental europe with a much lower economic status. it does not take an expert in economics to see the difference in the economic potential of the canary islands and the masovian islands. in this context, the requirement to increase agricultural support measures by increasing expenditure under the first pillar is highly inappropriate to say the least. i do not agree with the proposal to create a special budget line for these regions in the next planning period. i am firmly opposed to the application of the treaty provisions on the outermost regions, and i am in favour of equal and fair treatment of all regions with a lower gdp and the implementation of cohesion policy in their favour.
in writing. - the european parliament today discussed cohesion policy towards the union's weaker regions. i believe that these regions should be allocated structural funds on the basis of different, more favourable criteria. the level of project co-financing should also be higher, at 85% as a standard under all support instruments. in this context, i would like to oppose the european commission's plans to reduce the union's cohesion policy expenditure by 5,1% between 2014 and 2020. this will affect the less developed regions, including the kujawy-pomorskie region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the annual report on human rights in the world and the european union’s policy on the matter, including implications for the eu’s strategic human rights policy. i strongly believe that the universality of human rights can be only ensured by active cooperation between different human rights systems. we all acknowledge that the responsibility to protect human rights is one of the most substantial duties of a state. i am convinced that, in order to fulfil this duty properly, it is crucial to review the situation regularly. this report reflects current problems which affect union citizens and also those living elsewhere. active engagement in monitoring the situation in other regions of the world is indispensable if the european union wants to be regarded as a responsible and powerful partner on the international scene, not only in the economic field, but also conflict prevention. moreover, i regard this as our responsibility to promote values of democracy and the rule of law, understanding that this is the best way to ensure peaceful development and the raising of living conditions.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of 2011/2185(ini) on the annual report on human rights in the world and the european union’s policy on the matter, including implications for the eu’s strategic human rights policy. this document provides an excellent outline for what we as a parliament need to continue working toward. it is quite evident that over the years the eu has not always been consistent in its dealings with third countries with regard to policies and the role that human rights plays in those policies. thus this document provides a foundation for improving the consistency in the said dealings and pushes the eu to even expand upon the importance of human rights policy. we are in fact a union of 27 different countries with different cultures; however, we have worked tirelessly as a whole to establish fundamental rights for all of our citizens, as it is our duty to protect them. this concept should not end with us but should be granted to all citizens around the world and we should play our part to ensure this is achieved.
in writing. - i support the report by mr richard howit on human rights in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. it is, in my view, a document which comprehensively includes both an assessment and the necessary recommendations for the past and future actions of the parliament, the european commission and the council of the union, as well as the recently created european external action service on human rights and support for democratization processes in the world. i agree with the general thesis of the report that the effectiveness of the union's policy in this area requires the full involvement of the member states in the process of strengthening the international justice system, taking into account the concept of the universality and indivisibility of human rights. this also requires an increase in the union's budgetary resources for the implementation of european instruments promoting democracy and the protection of human rights in the world, while establishing transparent and more detailed criteria for the european union's financial support to third countries.
in writing. - association agreements are an important instrument in building or strengthening bilateral relations. through bilateral contacts, not only can the eu defend its strategic interests more clearly, but also the partner country has the chance to present its situation more concretely and to adjust bilateral relations to it, and if necessary to develop and improve its political and economic situation. the possibility of strengthening political ties, socioeconomic integration and the development of cultural relations is an important aspect. armenia has european ambitions and is committed to values such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. this is exemplified by armenia's commitment to multilateral parliamentary cooperation within the euronest assembly and the good pace of reforms in the country. i believe that there is a need to give a more advanced impetus to the development of relations with armenia and therefore welcome the report voted on today in the european parliament, which contains appropriate recommendations to the commission, the council and the european external action service, which, inter alia, underline the need to create a framework for the future development of relations with armenia. the negotiated association agreement will be the instrument that will strengthen political ties and act as a catalyst for human rights and democracy. in the negotiation process itself, the parties should take into account and seek to resolve a number of the most pressing issues, such as the nagorno-karabakh conflict, encouraging systematic public consultation and democratic elections.
in writing. − ladies and gentlemen, armenia is one of the countries targeted by the eu's aid and eastern partnership initiative. the prospects for further economic development of the country depend to a large extent on the solution of many internal problems and, at the same time, on its european partners. i believe that the negotiations on the eu-armenia association agreement are very important and should be based on stability and democratic development in the region. given the strong emphasis by the armenian authorities on european objectives and the promotion of democratic values and principles, i voted in favour of the adoption of the document by tomáš porába on the negotiations for an eu-armenia association agreement. thank you, sir.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i am glad that this important report has been prepared by my fellow member of parliament, mr poręba, who, like every pole, knows very well how important the eastern dimension of politics is. it is good that the european parliament is working on the development of the eastern partnership. we are all well aware of the importance of strengthening bilateral relations between the eu and armenia through the association agreement and the consequences this has for the development of the whole transcaucasian region. we are seeking to strengthen political ties, socioeconomic integration, legislative alignment and even cultural relations. however, i personally believe that the main focus now must be on security, i.e. taking concrete action to end the conflict over nagorno-karabakh. and as we tackle this problem, we can talk about other aspects of cooperation, even cultural and entertainment cooperation.
in writing. the euro area, and with it the eu as a whole, is in a very difficult situation where any solution seems wrong. we are now criticising the current policy of budget cuts in the member states, pointing out the need to increase pro-growth and job creation. but the answer seems less obvious. economists point out that while too much austerity in the euro area is not working, more spending will further erode investor confidence and thus worsen the situation. the optimal solution seems to be to combine these two approaches at european level and to find a sensible measure that the markets will accept. in countries with relatively stable public finances, we should instead step up actions to stimulate growth and employment. the european commission should work to complete the single european internal market, which, despite being established almost 20 years ago, has not yet reached its full potential. because it is the common market that creates cooperation and development for all its participants! in addition, the services directive needs to be further strengthened in order to increase the flow of services on the european market. in times of financial hardship, so-called project bonds are an interesting proposition, which are intended to allow the eu to finance a significant part of investment spending in the current decade.
mr chrysogelos, i am sorry but this is not a blue-card question. with the blue-card procedure you can only put the question to another mep who has just spoken. i am sorry about that.
well, i would like to emphasize very strongly that in the wake of the crisis in europe, many countries have recently raised their taxes. this is the wrong way, this is the way that further hinders growth and further limits the creation of new jobs. improving tax collection and combating fraud would be much more effective. there would certainly be less economic and financial damage, and there would be a chance of respecting the principle of fair competition. i have to say, the remarks that were made here today at the beginning of the debate have been troubling. i think that we are not sufficiently determined to fight tax fraud, and that in the emergency situation in which the european economy and finance find themselves, we need to be much more determined to fight fraud.
i received one look at the protocol. a draft resolution tabled in accordance with rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on friday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the council and commission statements on the legal certainty of european investments outside the european union 2012/2619 (rsp)
draft resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on friday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on:- report by marianne thyssen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base (com (2011) 0121 - c7-0092/2011 - 2011/0058 (cns)) (a7-0080/2012).
in writing. no one doubts the importance of solutions that help boost growth and jobs in europe in times of crisis. the idea of introducing common european rules for the calculation of the tax base of companies operating in the european union is a solution that would undoubtedly contribute to improving the competitiveness of the european market, reducing the administrative burden and the costs associated with complying with the various national tax regimes. unfortunately, the draft directive on the common consolidated tax base, in addition to good and fair solutions, also introduces provisions which, especially in times of crisis, we should not accept. the idea is to allow the consolidation of profits and losses within a group of companies, which will result in a drop in tax revenues in many member states and divide europe into 'winners' and 'losers'". this solution interferes too far with the tax systems of the member states and the possible compensation of losses by raising tax rates threatens tax competition in the internal market. instead of creating rules that go against the principle of solidarity and favour certain member states, we should encourage countries to define a common tax base as soon as possible, as some member states have committed to do under the euro plus pact.' it is one of the revenue-neutral ways of ensuring the coherence of national tax systems while respecting national tax strategies.
in writing. the project to create a single basis for taxing cit throughout the european union is ambitious and necessary. the commission has also proposed a new tax on the use of energy from renewable sources, which is ambitious because the legislation of eu countries on this tax differs significantly not only technically but also in the level of detail and economic priorities of the countries concerned reflected in this tax. this is a necessary step, as it will save significantly on the costs of cross-border activities and will make it easier for companies to operate. however, the idea of introducing revenue consolidation is no longer clearly positive. at least not for all countries. the formula for the division results in a group of 'winners and losers', i.e. those whose budgetary revenues will increase and those whose revenues will decrease after the introduction of this solution. this makes it extremely difficult to reach a compromise that satisfies all parties, and even if it is reached, it may have a negative impact on relations between countries. i therefore believe that the creation of a single tax base should be a priority and the idea of consolidation should be abandoned. this would be a much more advantageous solution as it would accelerate the process of building the common market without undue delay, especially in the context of the fact that there is a broad consensus, in the form of the euro plus pact, to undertake such action.
mr. chairman, please! mr hökmark, speaking of diesel, said that this was a problem for people who use this type of car. i think it's also a very big problem for the european economy for at least two reasons. firstly, i had the opportunity a few days ago to observe the trade balance between, say, taiwan and europe and talk about it. well, it turns out we're buying their computers, and we're trying to save the balance of trade by selling them meat. i think that cars and diesel technology, which has been developed by european companies, is one of the european technologies. (not german, because i'm polish and i'm not a representative of the german lobby, but i once had a german car that was made in belgium - yes, about mr lambertsa.) and europe is the world leader in diesel, it's a technology where we have a competitive advantage, and if we try to destroy it administratively and fiscally, it will be at a cost to the european consumer and to the european economy. we have to say it outright because we're flipping through different numbers here, but this regulation means that the cost of diesel in europe will go up by no less than 10%. and of course we agreed that we would reduce co2 by 20 or even 30 percent, but nobody agreed to that. and here i am addressing the people who called for consistency, that the remaining 70 percent would cost 15 or 20 percent more. we have a similar problem with coal: 30% of the european economy is now dependent on coal production and a 25 or even 30% increase in the economy overnight - because 5 years in the economy is the overnight cost of energy - will cause europe to suffer all the economic consequences of this fact.
in writing. energy policy has been, is and will remain a sensitive area of national action and the adoption of europe-wide solutions in this area, with the different energy mix of each of them, may lead to a situation in which one or more eu member states will feel the negative consequences of the decision taken. in the context of the restructuring of the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, i would like to draw attention not only to measures aimed at better environmental protection but also to solutions that go against the expectations of citizens and industry and consequently affect, among other things, economic growth, the unemployment rate or the level of energy prices. in the final analysis, we should consider the interests of the citizens we represent. in the context of poland and the lublin region, i would like to call for my country's right to opt-in to the emission component of the amended council directive, and to draw attention to the right to exploit rich coal resources on a competitive basis within the framework of a low-carbon economy, not a low-carbon economy. with the technology available, the use of coal reserves does not necessarily translate into an increase in co2 emissions!
in writing. this regulation is a damaging creation of commission officials who allegedly conducted a comprehensive public consultation in preparation of a solution to complement the climate and energy package. this can't be true. the commission has also proposed a new approach to the 3x20 policy objective, which is to ensure that the eu's environmental objectives are met. the subsidiarity principle was completely ignored. the climate and energy package has hampered energy investments in poland, which threatens its energy security. if this package, which was to be vetoed, will hit ordinary people from 2013 onwards through higher prices, mainly for electricity, this regulation will hit even harder through higher prices for fuels needed for heating and transport. in poland, households, especially rural ones, use coal mainly for heating, and from 2013 its price will increase by about 50% according to this scandalous proposal of the commission . both the package and the anti-polish regulation are disguised protectionism in favour of certain low-carbon countries, and those who say that they are only concerned with protecting the climate are hypocrites. we should reject the commission's taxation proposal as anti-social. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area.
rapporteur. − mr president, commissioner, dear colleagues, over the last two and a half years, i have started most of my statements in this house by saying that europe needs growth, and once again i say it today. austerity packages in those economies most strongly affected by the crisis have not generated growth because of a dysfunctional banking sector and high risk-aversion. therefore, there is an urgent need to unlock eib loans and guarantees to enable the private sector to become involved in important growth and job-creating projects, especially those co-financed by the eu cohesion policy. in this context, mobilising all the potential resources that can become growth triggers requires special measures, and this is what this legislative proposal is about. it provides for the establishment of a risk-sharing instrument with a view to facilitating the absorption of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund resources allocated to member states covered by eu and imf financial assistance programmes. in these countries – and primarily in greece – there are infrastructure and productive investment projects whose implementation has been blocked by the lack of private co-financing. this is particularly the case with transport and environmental infrastructure projects which generate revenue from the collection of charges from users and whose value cannot be covered by grants financed through the cohesion policy. this is also the case with those productive investments for which the maximum allowable public aid is capped by state aid rules. these projects are at risk of not being implemented because private sector investors and banks either lack the liquidity to lend to projects and project promoters or are no longer willing to bear the risks of investing in the present circumstances. the measure also foresees the possibility of financing other projects which are not co-financed by cohesion policy programmes but which contribute to the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy and bring important added value to the union’s strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. the proposed measure will be implemented by the commission at the request of the member state concerned in agreement with the eib or with another public or private institution with a public mission. the member state concerned should address a formal request to the commission identifying the projects and the funding needs to be covered by the risk-sharing instrument. the commission will assess the request and will set up and manage the facility jointly with the eib. the regulation provides a detailed description of the procedure to be applied for the establishment and implementation of a risk-sharing instrument. we have also specified the budget ceiling for the risk-sharing instrument, and we have specified that there are no contingent liabilities for the union budget or the member state concerned beyond the financial allocations dedicated to the risk-sharing instrument. the commission shall ensure that only projects for which the eib or another interested institution with a public mission has taken a favourable financing decision are eligible for financing through this instrument. i hope that, following tomorrow’s vote in the european parliament, the council will adopt this regulation promptly, allowing for joint signature by the european parliament and the council in may, as well as publication in the official journal of the european union and entry into force on the same day.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would briefly like to make two points. first of all, it is clear from the discussion we had, and from what the commissioner said, that this new policy instrument will necessitate good cooperation between the implementing institutions and the member state concerned. in the light of this, i would like to express my hope that this new unlocked financing will enable countries like greece promptly to resume the implementation of top-priority projects. we expect the eib and the commission to finalise the required operating arrangements as a matter of urgency. my second point is that, from my point of view as rapporteur, we had an extremely effective dialogue with the shadow rapporteurs, with colleagues from other committees who delivered opinions and with the danish presidency and the commission. i would like to thank everybody.
on behalf of the efd group. - madam president! - i have to go. it is with great sadness that we must acknowledge that, 230 years after the abolition of slavery in europe, slavery and human trafficking still exist. there are still terrible harms, mostly done to women, who are still today - now that we are debating in the european parliament - in the richest countries of the european union, forced under threat of blackmail, beatings, sometimes - as opposed to - even murder, to provide sexual services. they are denied their human dignity, and often the law enforcement agencies in the various countries put their hands out and pretend that there is no problem. it is a great shame not to use stronger words, and therefore every effort should be made to take effective measures. first, such conduct must always be classified as being within the framework of organised crime. secondly, such activities should be punished with appropriate severity, more severely than ordinary criminal offences, because support for a criminal group creates greater risk and power to harm such offenders and their sense of impunity. thirdly, we need to introduce elements of extended confiscation in all the countries of the european union to understand the purpose and meaning of organised crime trafficking in human beings, that is, making money from harm, most often women, but also children. all these actions taken together, coordinated within the individual countries of the european union and coordinated by the european institutions involved, can only be successful if they are undertaken in a comprehensive manner and with the attitude, determination and consistency that have sadly been lacking. the media is constantly reporting the terrible tragedies of eastern european women, third world women, who are tricked into supposedly honest work in western european countries, and then they are met with nightmarish events, crimes, beatings, and sometimes even murder. we have to stop this, and we have to protect the victims of these crimes. we have to show some determination here!
in writing. trafficking in human beings drugs and weapons is the third most profitable crime in the european union, with a so-called low risk. the european commission estimates that several hundred thousand people are trafficked within the eu each year, of whom 80% are women and girls. the lisbon treaty has strengthened eu action in the area of judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, including in the fight against trafficking in human beings. in march 2011, the council adopted a directive laying down rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions relating to trafficking in human beings. these rules are the first direct follow-up to the treaty of lisbon in the field of substantive criminal law and the first act agreed jointly by the council and the european parliament in this field. the purpose of the act is to better prevent trafficking in human beings and to protect victims. member states are to transpose the directive into national law by 6 april 2013. an action plan is needed to combat trafficking in human beings in the run-up to euro 2012. the anti-trafficking coordinator should contribute to the commission's progress reports on the fight against trafficking in human beings, which would be submitted to the council and the european parliament every two years. the human rights of victims should be at the heart of any strategy to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, we need to take every step that we think can help countries in today's crisis. almost every day we get news stories, news from financial institutions that show that, contrary to the often optimistic data, we are still far from overcoming the crisis. so i supported the proposal, although i have my doubts about it. i have my doubts because i think economics should be free of ideology. thinking about economics should be ideology-free, but it should work both ways. just as i don't like it when the euro supporters think that the euro is not a currency but almost god, i don't like the attitude of the opponents of the euro, because sometimes i get the impression that they want this project to fail for purely ideological reasons. i supported this proposal and i believe that we in this parliament should work together to get the countries of the european union out of the crisis as quickly as possible.
mr. chairman, please! i have decided, together with my colleagues in the political group, not to support this proposal for obvious reasons. we believe that this kind of financial planning at european level, without really serious, in-depth public debate on the matter, making decisions about taxpayers, about voters, about citizens without real consultation, is a decision which, in fact, instead of obviously having consequences for those taxpayers, may show that the european institutions are making decisions over the heads of the citizens, as has happened many times in the past. i am also sceptical of the solutions that are being proposed, hence my vote.
ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives! this is actually a very important moment in the discussion about counterterrorism, where we're talking about how we're going to secure the freedom of our citizens. and often in this case, the paradox is that in defending the liberties of citizens and their right to life, their right to security, we are forced to somehow limit their civil rights. i think what we're discussing today is one of the most important debates going on in the western world. where is the line between what we, as national or international institutions, have to do to protect our citizens, and between their right, the right of all of us as citizens to be free, to preserve our civil liberties? i think that in today's world, unfortunately, the threat of terrorism is so great that this line, perhaps for me too, is too uncomfortably pushed in the direction of state law and against the rights of citizens. but we must always be concerned about civil rights, and we must be aware of the necessity of what we are doing.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this proposal with the full knowledge that those who supported it certainly had the best of intentions and the best of intentions. we must, however, be very careful to balance the issues of rights, liberties, individual freedoms and security. and of course, i'm aware that some politicians and some states may be using expansionary and inappropriate security to increase control over their citizens. we should all be against it, but on the other hand, terrorism is not a fairy tale, it's not something from a movie, it's not something that's political fiction. terrorism is a threat to us. we need to have the instruments to counter it, hence my vote on this matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i voted in favour with full conviction, remembering how many times i had the opportunity to speak to american politicians of different political persuasions, who repeatedly asked me why there is still this problem concerning the so-called protection of personal data of transatlantic passengers, why europe cannot get along with the usa. i can honestly say that i cannot help agreeing with my honorable predecessor, my colleague from the hannan group, that this is a clear example of the anti-americanism that exists in some quarters of this house. i think that europe should cooperate with the united states - it is our natural partner in many areas - but especially with the united states where we are talking about the tragic struggle that is taking place today against our civilization, where terrorists want to undermine the foundations on which our community and the united states are built. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this directive because it has a very damaging effect on the economic development of europe. the recent climate summit in durban has clearly set out the global trends in how we approach global warming, and the most striking example is the extremely green canada, which has been blatantly withdrawing from the kyoto protocol. the reward for being european will be a tax that will raise the already astronomical prices of fuel and electricity. and it's supposed to increase the number of jobs. tax policy is a reserved area of national competence and the emerging precedent of common taxation is an attempt to drain the resources of some eu countries, which may lead to distortions of competition.
in writing. - the african continent is a very poor region. many people there suffer from poverty, and hunger and disease are everywhere. but africa is also a region with vast natural resources, and the rational management of these resources can improve the lot of its people. in the central african republic, 31% of the land is covered by tropical forests, the people of the country depend heavily on them for their livelihoods and forestry is the main source of private sector employment. i believe that the most important forestry issues should be regulated and that timber products entering the european union market should come from legal sources. appropriate monitoring of the procedures for placing goods on the market is necessary. it is also worth looking at the domestic market, which was excluded from the agreement.
in writing. − in december 2005, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a series of voluntary partnership agreements (vpa) with timber-producing and exporting countries in order to encourage trade in legally harvested timber on the eu market and to improve forest governance in partner countries. i believe that these bilateral agreements are a cornerstone of the eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade to halt illegal logging. for this reason, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. - the european parliament today gave its consent to the conclusion of a partnership agreement with the central african republic. this voluntary partnership agreement obliges the partner country to define the legal framework, in particular the authorisations for timber and timber products to be imported into the eu market, and to establish a monitoring and independent audit system. up to 60% of central african timber is exported to the eu. as one of the country's main sources of income, the exploitation of forest resources leads to environmental degradation. the main reasons for this are the lack of law enforcement instruments and ineffective monitoring, which leads to illegal logging. at the same time, more than 3 million hectares of forest in the car are subject to industrial concessions, which are mainly used by european companies, and these companies must have permits to obtain timber, so that the appropriate legal environment is also necessary for these companies and for the development of trade. in order to ensure sustainable forest management and avoid forest degradation, the central african republic has committed itself under the agreement to trade only in legal timber products. i think it is very important that the agreement, together with other legal instruments such as the eu timber regulation, which is due to come into force in 2013, will help to curb illegal logging, but it will need to be implemented efficiently.
in writing. − i believe that the vpa with liberia is all the more important because almost 45% of liberia is covered by forest and the country hosts over half of west africa’s remaining rain forests. the objective pursued through this vpa is to contribute to the protection of intact forest landscapes and to ensure that the local forestry sector engages in an environmentally and socially sustainable pathway, and that regular and efficient monitoring is put in place with respect to the vpa's implementation. for this reason, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − in the context of the current consideration of the us-eu agreement on the use of passenger flight data and the transfer of such data to the us department of homeland security, i would like to draw attention to the consequences of its possible rejection or acceptance. in the first scenario, the flow of personal data would not be interrupted at all. control of this process could only be established by contract. in addition, the difficulties for eu citizens and businesses arising, for example, from the lack of direct flights from a selected european city to the united states should be taken into account. the adoption of the agreement, despite its imperfections, would be a concrete step forward compared with the 2007 agreement, as it would allow for more precise data transfer limits, more restrictive retention periods, a right to information and more stringent rules on the use of data. in conclusion, i propose to adopt the agreement as it stands as a starting point for further work and negotiations with a view to the necessary improvements to the provisions of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the data of air passengers who are citizens of the european union should not be transferred to authorities of non-eu countries under the rules laid down in this agreement. this is particularly the case for so-called sensitive data, such as data on ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation or health status. the attempt to protect against terrorist attacks is understandable, but the provisions of the new agreement with the us are harmful to eu citizens.
in writing. − i decided to vote in favour since i believe this is a strong agreement which will protect lives against terrorism and serious crimes. the pnr data has already led to the capture of hundreds of criminals and its use cannot be underestimated. moreover, the agreement sets clear limits on the purposes for which pnr data may be used and guarantees data protection in a more efficient way than the 2007 agreement. it is better to have an agreement that specifies the stringent conditions under which specific pieces of information can be transferred than to have no agreement at all, or a number of bilateral deals between the us and individual eu countries.
in writing. − i voted against this motion for a resolution, as did the ecr group. the directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) was to have a positive impact on ‘completing the single market and enhancing competitiveness’; however, the econ vote on 21 march 2012 called for a mandatory ccctb for all eu27. the resolution adopted in econ proposes a road map for the ccctb implementation: as soon as the directive comes into force, all companies would have the possibility to opt into the ccctb system. after two years, it would be mandatory for all transnational companies, and after five years, it would apply automatically to all companies operating on european territory, with the exception of smes.
in writing. − there is a broad consensus in favour of introducing a uniform cit tax base in the eu. it has been expressed on several occasions, including by the signatures of the signatories of the euro plus pact. this would be a major step towards the construction of the common market and a great help to european businesses. this would significantly improve the competitiveness of the european economy and would also allow savings for businesses. however, the consolidation project breaks the consensus built around this idea by creating artificial formulae for the distribution of cit revenues, which in turn leads to a division of eu countries into 'winners' and 'losers', i.e. those who benefit from the formula and those who lose. moreover, the document voted at the econ meeting mentions the possible harmonisation of the cit tax, which significantly distorts the original purpose of the directive. in view of the above arguments, i was forced to vote against this proposal in the hope that it would be rejected.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the common corporate tax base because i believe that this system should be voluntary and that its adoption should be long-term and dependent on the will of the companies that want to be covered by it. the report not only proposes to bring all multinational corporations under a common tax base within two years, but also to bring all large companies operating in the eu under one after five years. tax matters remain and should remain the exclusive responsibility of the member states. i object to any attempt to change that.
in writing. − the current energy directive only set minimum tax rates for energy products used as motor fuels and heating fuels, as well as for electricity, with the amount of taxation dependent only on the consumption of the raw material. the commission proposal amends the existing rules by proposing changes to the taxation of energy products to eliminate the existing disparities and to take account of co2 emissions together with the energy content of these products; introducing a 10-year transitional period for this change in order to fully harmonise the taxation system. in the case of poland, the newly proposed solutions are practically impossible without significant costs, which unfortunately are borne by consumers. within 10 years, there is no real possibility in poland to obtain enough energy from renewable sources, or to build nuclear power plants as is the case in france to move away from coal. coal has less calorific value than gas, but twice the emission, which means more taxation and thus more price for the average citizen. the new rules will also affect the competitiveness of poland, which generates up to 90% of its electricity from coal. moreover, the shift from a taxation system based solely on the amount of energy consumed to a new fuel, also dependent on fuel efficiency, may lead to the introduction of a so-called carbon tax, dependent on co2 emissions, which in my country means an additional increase in the excise duty on coal, which will be introduced in 2013. i voted against because i believe that the report adopted today and the legislative changes that follow will cause more problems than benefits.
in writing. - i dare say that the commission officials preparing this scandalous project did not consult him and did not properly analyse the impact of their proposals on the social situation in the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission's draft also calls for a comprehensive consultation of all interested parties. who's that? i want to know who these consultations were with in my country. in poland, coal is the main source of heating in households, especially in small towns and rural areas. one ton of coal burned is about three, three, five tons of co2. if you multiply this by 20 euros per tonne of co2 (how did you get this number? - i think it's from the ceiling. and why in euros?), assuming that the price of coal is currently between 500 and 700 pln per tonne, its price will increase by about 300 pln to 800 and 1,000 pln per tonne. on average, a farm uses six to seven tons of this fuel a year, and even more when it comes to farmers. did these 'consultations' take this into account? i don't think it was. that's why i voted to reject this reprehensible bill.
in writing. − the amendment of directive 2003/96/ec aims to align the european energy taxation system with the objectives of the eu's climate change strategy. the new fuel taxation system proposed by the european commission suggests a two-tiered tax rate, which is to be composed of the co2 emissions and the amount of energy that can be extracted from the raw material. the current draft envisages that each country will be able to decide on the shape of its rates, adjusted proportionally to the thresholds agreed at eu level. these changes are expected to lead to the increased use of biofuels and other renewable energy sources, gradually reducing the use of fossil fuels, thereby increasing energy efficiency while reducing carbon emissions. however, we cannot ignore the impact that higher fuel prices will inevitably have on the industry and economy of the member states. the automobile industry, the transport industry, and the energy industry, which in some countries is almost entirely coal-based, will suffer huge losses. in times of economic crisis, is this a step in the right direction? not surprisingly, this issue has become increasingly divisive and controversial. however, it should be borne in mind that the european parliament has only an advisory role in this matter, and the final decision is up to the governments and must be taken unanimously by all member states.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i believe that member states should have the right to set their own co2 taxation levels. in addition, the commission’s proposal for a revised directive on energy taxation changes the existing directive adopted in 2003 with respect to the structure of the energy taxation. i do not agree that, by 2025, the commission should make legislative proposals aimed at harmonising car purchase taxes, car registration taxes and car ownership taxes based on co2 emissions, or issue a report explaining why it has not done so. that is a matter for member states to decide.
in writing. - i voted against this report. it is clear that measures and instruments must be taken to help protect the environment, which is our common good, the good of not only eu citizens but of citizens all over the world. taxation of carbon emissions could be one such instrument. however, from poland's point of view, taxing coal emissions could have dramatic consequences, including, in particular, a huge increase in coal prices, which in turn could put many polish households in an even more difficult situation than before.
in writing. - energy taxation is a very sensitive subject. this is because energy prices are linked to the prices of other products and without adequate energy at a decent price, economies are immediately uncompetitive. so i'm skeptical of the idea of additional energy taxes, especially if they're done in the name of climate policy. it is important, of course, but not as important as a sound energy policy. we cannot afford to increase the taxation of an energy product, which generates 30% of the eu's energy, by a factor of six in the run-up to 2018. that product is, of course, coal, which has been attacked by many members of this house. since the amendments proposed by myself and the group of 40 members, which called for the optional nature of the emissions component, have failed, i have decided to vote against this directive. i did so despite the fact that the epp voted to scrap the principle of proportionality, which is unfavourable to all users of diesel cars. however, this was not enough to make the directive beneficial for poland and its citizens.
in writing. - there are many arguments against taxing fuel and heating prices. this is clearly damaging to the competitiveness of both the polish and the eu economies. taxation will cause heating and industrial products to increase in price in poland, which will in the long run result in the elimination of many jobs and the deepening of the disparity between eastern and western europe. energy-intensive industries in central europe have to pay twice for the same activity simply because coal is the dominant energy source in these countries. it seems that poland is still being punished for having large coal reserves. already, the costs of climate policy in poland amount to €5.4 billion a year, which is more than half of the pre-tax profit of the entire polish industry. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - in my country, poland, nearly 3 million households use coal-fired heating. the average consumption per farm is between 5 and 7 tonnes of coal per year, and far more for farms. one ton of coal emits about 3.5 tons of co2 when burned. so if we add, as mrs lulling reports, a €20 tax per tonne of co2 emitted, we get an increase in the price of coal of about pln 300 per tonne on average. it is a decidedly unacceptable and unacceptable increase in the cost of living that my countrymen cannot afford. i also see the continuation of the climate and energy package. that's why i voted against this report.
in writing. − the implementation of the solutions contained in this document leads directly to an increase in energy prices. in the economic crisis we are in, it's shooting ourselves in the foot. that is why i am all the more surprised that the european parliament allows such strong intervention in the market. our actions should be directed in the opposite direction and should lead to lower energy prices and easier energy production. we must finally resist the new european disease of green energy policy and the one-sided, pointless reduction of co2 emissions.
in writing. - the grey area in poland concerns about 25% of gdp. in the european union, the average is 15 percent. this means a huge loss of revenue to the state budget. this results in more debt being placed on individual countries and less money being spent on essential public services. at the same time, a grey area indicates a serious lack of inflows into member states' pension systems. this is particularly important as public debates are taking place in many countries about the possible raising of the retirement age. mass tax evasion was one of the causes of the greek crisis. the greek case should be a lesson for the european union as a whole and force the community institutions and the member states to make rapid legislative changes to tighten up the tax collection system. the resolution by parliament on the call for concrete measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion is an important gesture to mobilise the other community institutions and the member states to work towards changes in the legal system that will improve the collection of taxes. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution with full conviction.
madam president! i think there is no one in this room who would argue that the european union should not promote the protection of human rights, but in the case of the union's accession to the convention we have - and i personally have - some doubts about the wisdom of such a move, of such a step. first, i would like to know what guarantees there are that this will not lead to increased competition between the two tribunals. there are already competence disputes between strasbourg and luxembourg, which creates some difficulties. another important issue is the scale of the financial support that the union will provide to the european court of human rights. it should also be borne in mind that each member state of the european union has already signed the convention. what, then, will be the added value of the eu as a whole joining? how will this affect the internal legal system of each eu country? i have the impression, unfortunately, that the only purpose he has in mind is to emphasise the european union's status as a major player on the international stage.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we talked until noon about the human trafficking that is causing so much emotion and drama for thousands, especially women and children. i believe that border security and measures to prevent the forgery of documents allowing people to cross borders are the only way to effectively reduce the phenomenon of illegal smuggling and trafficking in human beings. the report also highlights the potential of biometric passports, but also points out that there are a number of shortcomings in the security and encryption of the data contained in them. therefore, we must do everything we can to improve the technology and the way we handle these documents. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! biometric passports are introduced to make it harder for criminals to live and work (because it's a process). and it seemed like there was nothing more secure than biometric passports, and yet it turns out that these documents are also increasingly being forged, that criminals are able to break the individual chips and codes in passports. of course, countering these practices is the responsibility of the police of the individual countries and the responsibility of the border guards. i must admit, however, that in today's information, including the information provided by the commissioner, i was very much lacking in information and data on what such important institutions as europol and frontex are doing in this area, because that should also be one of their main objectives.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i join the voices that have been raised about the lack of maps. indeed, we cannot rationally proceed if we do not have such documents. as regards the criteria we should use to define lessfavoured areas, i think that these criteria should relate primarily to soil conditions. soil moisture, which mr. nicholson talked about, is a very important condition and it should be taken into account. conditions relating to labour intensity are also important. there are areas where it just takes a lot more work to get a crop than other areas. that's what the highlands are like. and so is competitiveness. areas with greater distance from the market, where additional costs are incurred to either sell their products or to obtain means of production, should be taken into account. these should be the main criteria for identifying less-favoured areas.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! despite the considerable efforts of the commission and the member states in developing the method for the designation of areas with natural constraints, the proposed biophysical criteria do not meet the basic expectation of an objective designation of areas with actual natural constraints at community level. nor, as can be seen with the naked eye, is there sufficient justification for adjusting administrative units such as lau 2 municipalities, whose size varies widely across the european union. the average size of lau 2 for the union as a whole is 3,5 thousand hectares, and in poland this average is 12,5 thousand hectares. for some countries, the difference in lau 2 is as much as ten times greater than the eu average. in my view, small administrative units, such as recording ranges, which are homogeneous in terms of soil and thus better reflect natural constraints should be used. moreover, the application of the lau 2 level in combination with a high threshold of 66%, especially in countries with different soil and climatic conditions, such as poland, will result in the exclusion of areas with natural constraints whose eligibility criteria will not reach the appropriate level. in the case of poland, areas with scientifically proven low productivity and a risk of silting would not qualify as areas with natural constraints. this is really a reversal of fortune and, for the time being, it would be best to remove this issue from the reform of the agricultural policy in the union under discussion. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in reference to what mr bové said and to the interesting exchange of views between mr deß and mr jahr earlier, i would like to say that in the report on the transport of animals which i am currently preparing - which will shortly be put to the vote in the committee on agriculture - i am very much raising the issue of local slaughterhouses, which really should be supported, developed. and this is one way to reinforce this idea of regional products, so that they are actually local products, produced in a particular region. and to get back to the main theme: well, we're seeing a process in the world and in europe of displacing traditional agricultural production based on natural methods by industrial agriculture. an increasing share of agricultural production comes from large industrial farms. natural farming based on family farms, using traditional production methods is in reverse, and this is a very unfavorable process leading to a deterioration in the quality of food, a deterioration in animal welfare conditions, negative consequences for the environment and many other negative consequences. i am strongly in favour of local products being defined as those products that are entirely produced in a particular region using traditional production methods for that region and that are environmentally friendly and animal welfare friendly. this should be a condition for treating such products as local products. i can't imagine calling a local product, for example, a product from a large-scale farming, as in some regions in poland we have large-scale farms run by businesses from e.g. denmark, that meat produced in such a farm would be called a local product from a specific region in poland. it's not supposed to be like this.
on behalf of the efd group. thank you, mr president! fellow workers! it is easy to see that consumers are increasingly interested in buying food that is produced locally or produced nearby, or within zero kilometres, or labelled in a similar way. it is worth noting the need to develop explanations and an appropriate interpretation of the meaning used for the term 'produced locally'. we must ensure that this is done in a transparent manner and that consumers are not misled. definitions and criteria for the labelling of locally produced food should be developed in order to ensure that consumers are able to make free and informed choices based on clear and correct information. we must also be careful that once such measures are introduced, the concept of local production does not lead to food nationalism or contradict the spirit of the internal market. thank you very much. thank you.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for the debate. this clearly shows how engaged you, like many citizens, are in the issue of locally-produced food. there was a eurobarometer survey which showed that nine out of ten respondents want to buy more locally-produced food and think that the eu should contribute to its promotion. so this is important. however, it is very difficult to define what locally produced food is. it is also confirmed in the same eurobarometer survey that many consumers feel a bit puzzled about this because there are so many different parameters, depending on the different countries and on the different traditions. in order to address this, the commission has taken five actions: consultation of member states is going on; there is a study on its way; there is an expert group that is consulting the commission; there is the quality package that the commission has undertaken to look at; and there is this conference tomorrow on local agriculture and a short food supply chain. with all this and the ongoing work on the renewed cap, i think these steps will bring more clarity on what locally produced food is.
in writing. i would like to support the question to the council on the precise definition of 'food produced locally', as the ambiguities in the product information affect both consumers and producers. increasingly aware of the variety and quality of choice, people are paying more attention to the products they buy. organic food and healthy living are becoming increasingly popular. that's why the local food is so popular. the consumer should therefore be given reliable information on the origin of the product. and the manufacturer is concerned about selling their good, local product. it is therefore necessary to specify precisely how producers could indicate the place of manufacture of the product in order to ensure that consumers can correctly identify a good brand. product information should be clear, covering the regions and the ingredients from which it is produced. this will improve the quality of food products and improve communication between producers and consumers.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report i am presenting to you concerns the effects of decentralising the management of external aid. this process has been going on for several years and involves transferring management from brussels to the european union delegations in the countries benefiting from our development aid. the long-term objective of decentralising external aid, which is managed by the european commission, is to increase the efficiency of development actions, their speed and the accuracy of financial management procedures, which is why this report was considered by the committee on budgetary control. another objective is to improve the quality of aid in partner countries. i am sure you will agree that a decentralised approach to development cooperation has many advantages: it makes decision-making closer to reality, closer to the direct beneficiaries, more efficient in terms of operations and in terms of coordinating and harmonising the work of different donors. at the same time, this approach ensures accountability at local level. it should be added that decentralisation of management will not solve all the problems. in the report i have tried to identify additional tasks which are a prerequisite for increasing the effectiveness of aid. the aid managed by the individual delegations continues to cover a very wide range of areas which are too broad. this is why it is so important to improve coordination between the european union, the member states and partner countries, but also to improve the coordination of development activities and to improve their efficiency and effectiveness. a better division of labour, focusing on those areas where the union has a competitive advantage and a real capacity to add value, is the way to increase efficiency. decentralisation also reduces the transaction costs of the aid provided - this is good, but it is not the only way to reduce these costs. one such method is budget support, which focuses more on the quality of aid, partnership and needs of beneficiary countries. i also think it is worthwhile to highlight a number of issues that are important for aid effectiveness. in recent years, the composition of the staff of the delegations has changed, with an increasing number of staff holding political and commercial functions. the report therefore calls for a proper balance to be struck between the functions of aid management and the other functions performed by the delegations in respect of staff in the delegations. the high level of staff turnover in the delegations is also a cause for concern, as it weakens the continuity of the institution's functioning, the so-called institutional memory, and has a negative impact on the effectiveness of the activities carried out. the report reiterates the call for the designation of policy cohesion contact points in each delegation, the obvious aim being to monitor the impact of eu policies on the partner country. i believe that the union's financial instruments and the european development fund should focus more on poverty reduction. the ultimate eradication of poverty is the main objective of european development cooperation, as set out in article 208 of the treaty of lisbon. the draft report also stresses that neither the european commission nor the member states should use the current financial crisis to justify a focused approach to get more for less, which means, among other things, reducing the level of employment in bilateral aid agencies. i ask for your support for this report and thank you for your attention.
mr. chairman, please! i will not let you down and i will finish two seconds ahead of schedule. mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you get away with this. this report has a number of positive points, including the autonomy of universities, support for erasmus, recognition of qualifications from home universities, a call for a neighbourhood policy and cooperation with these countries, and the fact that universities cannot be limited to their contribution to the economy. but at the same time, there are some worrying things in this report: for example, this uniformity of rankings of higher education institutions, the obligation to spend at least one semester outside their home institution. this means that we will unfortunately have to withhold our support for this report.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate my friend lászló tőkéz on his report. it's true, we deal with current issues on a daily basis, crisis, firefighting, but today this report is a horizontal report, where the effects of action can be deferred for future generations. and indeed, europe's competitiveness will really be about innovation and the skills and the preparation, the education of the young generation. the whole system needs to be transformed, and of course the universities, which are not competitive today, play a key role in this. we are far from the shanghai list, which is why i think it is important to implement the 'youth in action' programme effectively, the correlation of the marie skłodowska-curie programme (thanks to the commissioner, among others, this programme now has a full polish name). we need to invest, of course, in innovation, in competitiveness in research and in the labour market. that is why it is so important that the future structural policy, the future horizon 2020 programme, can truly modernise universities.
in writing. the modernisation of european higher education systems must be a process that takes into account many aspects ranging from procedural to financial to organisational. it is worth promoting and implementing the idea of lifelong learning by introducing specific programmes implemented by academic centres. the educational offer of higher education needs to be constantly updated to meet the expectations of the economy and, in particular, of a labour market that is changing rapidly. in doing so, it is necessary to ensure continuous scientific and technological progress. the appropriate level of academic standards should be maintained and continuously monitored in both public and private universities. as the rapporteur rightly points out, the key issue is to increase access to higher education for as many europeans as possible in order to cope more effectively with the economic crisis and to increase europe's competitiveness. this is why cooperation between smes and academic institutions should serve to exchange information on the need for workers with specific skills and competences and to enable students to undertake professional placements. it is worth continuing to support and promote programmes involving student mobility, so that students can gain new experiences and then spread good practice in their home universities.
mr. chairman, please! the debate on women and climate change is a relatively new phenomenon, but given that women are the ones who are primarily responsible for consumer and household decisions, and that women are generally more active in civil society, i think that much more attention should be given to this issue. today, i would like to highlight how women can become even more involved in the work and actions that are aimed at fighting climate change. first, we should aim to increase the number of women who will be trained in technical fields, among other things. this will not only enable them to gain valuable expertise and build up a pool of experts, but will also put them in sectors that are directly linked to climate change and increase their participation in key climate change decision-making. secondly, i strongly support the idea of developing targeted policies to ensure the development of entrepreneurship in a general sense in the context of equal access of women and men to jobs and a green economy. thirdly, in addition to long-term strategies, we need to make changes as soon as possible to make it easier for women to access credit, and in particular micro-credit. through their determination and innovative approach, women with access to microcredit, insurance and services will be a critical element in shaping the green economy and mitigating the impacts of climate change.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the report on the biodiversity strategy to 2020 by mr gerbrandy, as voted on in the committee on the environment, is very good, it presents a balanced position that takes into account the different approaches to biodiversity among member states, supports the objectives of the biodiversity strategy, the need for their urgent implementation. it also supports the effective continuation of the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2020. it is now up to the european parliament to give clear support to biodiversity goals and actions, while also highlighting the need for their urgent implementation. it is important to give a higher political priority to biodiversity in general and to counter the tendency to diminish its importance due to economic difficulties. the common agricultural policy must be integrated into the protection of biodiversity. without farmers in this process, we will not achieve the results we want. however, it is equally important that all member states are able to meet the thresholds. the main assumption of the strategy must be its feasibility. now biodiversity has another chance, because the eu has already failed once before by not reaching its 2010 target. if it is to succeed now, the eu institutions and the member states must show greater determination and effectiveness. we have shown unity in the vote on the environment committee and i hope that we will maintain that unity in the vote on today's session. there is also a need for a great deal of systematic education, not only for children and young people, but also for all the different sectors of the economy: farmers, industrial workers. it is essential to involve local governments in this process. they need to be given tasks, to be supported by projects under the cohesion funds, which are aimed at protecting biodiversity. we cannot allow industry and business to develop in a loosely controlled way at the expense of biodiversity.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. biodiversity is undoubtedly our natural capital, and it is a matter that needs to be taken very seriously, both nationally and internationally. this issue should be given high priority, action within the european union should be stepped up and biodiversity issues should be included in the strategies for the various sectors of the union's activities. environmental protection is an important part of our policy. taking care of these issues, building a common strategy of action is crucial from the point of view of europe's development. therefore, the diversity strategy is a long-term plan. the case must therefore be approached with great caution, both in terms of the effectiveness of the planned measures and in terms of costs. we need an effective review of subsidies, grants, to eliminate those sources of funding that are harmful to the environment. emphasis should be placed on the introduction of modern and eco-friendly methods. the ecr group makes its decision on the report dependent on whether a number of changes, including those concerning the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy, are taken into account. the protection of biodiversity should be addressed by union law to the same extent as in the un convention. the commission has also proposed a new approach to the protection of biodiversity. it is very important that the different environments in the european union do not use biodiversity as a tool to achieve goals that have little to do with biodiversity. thank you very much. thank you.
the next item is the vote. (for the vote on the minutes, see minutes)
and so we close the vote.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of mr tőkéš' report because i believe it addresses issues of great importance for the future of higher education in europe. i believe that, in the face of the increasing difficulties faced by young people in the labour market and the fact that unemployment is increasingly affecting those with higher education, reforms to adapt the curriculum to employers' expectations and to increase flexibility in the updating of knowledge and skills are necessary. partnerships between universities and the business and public sectors should become the basic standard. i also find it very important that the rapporteur stresses the importance of entrepreneurship education and opens up mobility, exchange and research programmes to students from the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. − although the responsibility for coordinating higher education lies with the member states, the european union should be highly involved in supporting it. young people are the capital of the future and the quality of their education is a subsidy for the european economy. in addition to financial support for universities and directly for students, the union should engage in activities aimed at increasing the number of students in science and natural sciences. with all due respect to the humanities, it's worth remembering that engineers are the engineers of the economy. today, however, many students choose courses that offer little prospect of a good job. as a result, there are more and more unemployed graduates in the market. it is therefore important to ensure that as many young people as possible choose education paths that are relevant to the european economy and that provide them with satisfaction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of european higher education systems. i did it for a couple of reasons. first of all, the modernization of higher education is a very important issue. secondly, the report is balanced, multi-faceted and well-reasoned. thirdly, i am an assistant professor at the university of humanities and journalism in poznań, which gives me a good understanding of the realities, challenges and needs of higher education in europe. due to formal constraints, i cannot list all the strengths of the report. i'll just mention a few. i agree with the thesis that 'the quality and usefulness of higher education are the basic conditions for the full exploitation of europe's intellectual capital'. this is why a series of actions are needed to unlock the potential of higher education. both the member states and the european union should support these actions. it is important that higher education institutions adapt to new challenges. they can do this by creating new fields of study that reflect the demands of the labour market. at the same time, universities should take account of the development of science by maintaining an appropriate balance between theoretical knowledge and practical skills. another important task is to improve the quality of education and to promote mutual recognition of qualifications. i support the report's call for 'all eu countries to implement national qualifications frameworks linked to the european higher education area qualifications framework and to develop and financially support a system of mutual recognition'. thank you, sir.
in writing. − in supporting the work on greater innovation in universities and the mobility of young people, i believe that the value of the lászló tőkéz report is to point to the autonomy of university institutions, to support the erasmus programme and to the need for home universities to recognise qualifications acquired in other academic institutions. i also regard the call for cooperation with the european neighbourhood policy countries as a great asset of the report. at the same time, the report contains some worrying elements, among which i do not support the proposal to harmonise the criteria for establishing pan-european rankings of higher education institutions and the intention to introduce, as part of the course of study, a compulsory period of study at one of the universities of a member state other than the student's home member state. this should be a completely voluntary decision, not one imposed on students from above. for these reasons, i have decided to abstain.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which stresses the importance of greater cooperation between member states and institutions in the setting up of joint programmes. the report encourages the latter to intensify their exchanges in order to adapt their programmes to a growing number of students with very different profiles. it also called for more links between higher education institutions to enable students to gain initial work experience and to have a choice of courses which better meet the specific needs of the labour market. i therefore support the modernisation of our higher education systems to make them more competitive and to increase europe's competitiveness.
in writing. - the european parliament often deals with higher education issues. and rightly so, for it is one of the most important areas of human activity in the modern world. in ensuring that higher education provides europeans with high-quality qualifications that are desirable in the labour market, we cannot forget the critical and civic function of higher education. the resolution differs from many previous documents on higher education in that it draws attention to the problems of persistent inequalities between higher education systems in western and central and eastern europe. i have accepted this point of the resolution with extraordinary satisfaction. this is a very important aspect of the modern european higher education system. i fully support the call in the resolution to the european commission to develop a strategy and a professional financial action plan to reduce these inequalities. appreciating this aspect of the resolution, i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - i supported the report on the modernisation of european higher education systems. i would point out that education should be better linked to labour market needs in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, including by creating new fields of study that are in line with labour market needs, increasing the supply of education and vocational guidance and promoting traineeships and apprenticeships. in order to increase the employment opportunities of women in technical and scientific positions, in non-traditional occupations, in low-carbon sectors of the economy and in high-tech sectors, new training opportunities for women in science, mathematics and technology need to be created. i am in favour of increasing the representation of women in scientific decision-making bodies in order to encourage more women to work in higher education. in europe, women account for only 30% of all scientists. even more worrying is the rate of women's participation in scientific governing bodies. the union-wide average is 27%. poland, with a 7% female representation on science boards, ranks second to last among the 27 eu countries. women also continue to struggle with the glass ceiling in their academic careers. the percentage of women who become professors is 15%. i call on the commission and the member states to set up programmes to encourage the participation of young women scientists in research programmes and to apply for grants to help them stay in academia.
in writing. − ‘education, education, and education’. this was the answer tony blair famously gave when asked what his areas of priority were. at a time when public purse strings are being increasingly tightened, many higher education institutions across europe are feeling the pinch. education – and higher education in particular – is a crucial long-term investment if europe is to reach the targets set by the 2020 strategy in the area of smart growth. cuts in education should be avoided, where possible, as they will ultimately set us back further. the target of spending 2% of gdp on education should be maintained by all member states. taking into account the prevailing economic conditions, the loans facility proposed in the erasmus for all programme for masters students wishing to study in another eu country is particularly welcome. not only will this provide much needed financial support to students; it will also promote mobility, which is a key component in achieving a true european area of higher education. i fully endorse mr tőkés’ report and call on the member states to implement its recommendations.
in writing. - climate change issues are closely linked to equity issues. we cannot propose effective solutions without broadening our view of the importance of the role of women, given that they represent around 50% of the world's population and that they still bear relatively more responsibility for everyday consumer choices, childcare and household management. the inclusion of women in eu 'climate diplomacy' is a priority for the first time. women's participation in political decision-making, especially in climate change negotiations, is still insufficient and little progress has been made. so we should strive to ensure that women are adequately represented in the teams that are working on climate change. i believe that gender mainstreaming at every stage of climate policy, from design to financing, implementation and evaluation, will be mutually beneficial, which is why i voted in favour of this report. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - i supported the report on women and climate change. research indicates that climate change is not gender neutral and its effects are differentiated for women and men. this is confirmed by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) in its 4th assessment report 2007. women account for 85 percent of climate change deaths and 75 percent of environmental refugees. women have a higher mortality rate due to natural disasters (over 70% of those killed by the 2004 tsunami were women). therefore, climate change research should take greater account of gender. i'm looking at the situation of women in developing countries, who are taking the brunt of climate change. women and girls are disproportionately more vulnerable to the consequences of climate change, due to pervasive gender inequalities. traditional gender roles and discrimination against women reduce their ability to adapt their lifestyles to climate change. the effects of climate change will have long-term consequences for gender equality. they are exacerbating inequalities in access to the wealth, the land, the new technologies, the education, the information that are essential elements in the fight against climate change. i call on the european commission to develop aid programmes which take account of the situation of women. women should be more involved in the development of adaptation strategies.
in writing. - the environment is the greatest treasure of our planet. it is by means of it that we live, breathe, are born, and die. it is thanks to nature's kindness that the human species has survived from generation to generation, surrounded by other species of living organisms, fauna and flora. it is vital for all citizens, since we all want to live in a clean, well-kept environment. unfortunately, today, according to scientific data, more than half of the natural ecosystems on our planet are being degraded, non-renewable resources are being over-exploited, and our age-old industry and consumer lifestyles are leading to ever greater climate change. to ensure the survival of the environment for future generations, we must do all we can to support actions to protect biodiversity and ecosystem security. the right financial resources, cooperation not only at international but also at intercontinental level, coordination between different policy areas and, above all, the awareness that without nature life on earth cannot exist, are essential factors for the rapid and effective implementation of pro-environmental strategies that ensure a bright future for our heirs.
- i call a recess to the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m.)
in writing. the practice of recent years shows the failure, even the defeat, of dogmatic thinking. faith in the financial stability of the eurozone was shattered. how will the french elections and the situation in greece affect the way forward? i don't think anyone should have any doubts. the debate on the future of europe must also address the question of fair sharing of the costs of the recovery from the crisis. the question concerns the union as a whole but also has a justification in individual countries. i speak as the representative of a country where social disparities are among the highest in europe.
in writing. europeans see the union as the most effective actor in mitigating the effects of the economic crisis, acting more effectively than national authorities. in this context, equality between women and men is of crucial importance. women are the largest reserve of untapped labour and the majority of those living in poverty. we need more women in the workforce and in decision-making positions. more women on decision-making bodies can improve the efficiency and innovation of the work environment, improve the overall performance of a company and thus contribute to strengthening europe's competitiveness. it is equally important to prevent unemployment among graduates, young people. one in five eu citizens under 25 cannot find a job. it's a tragedy for the state and for young people who feel socially useless at the beginning of their careers. support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which accounted for 85% of new jobs in the union between 2002 and 2010 and which have been hit hardest by the crisis, is key. the future of europe is first and foremost the future and the well-being of its citizens. the rights, prosperity and solidarity of europeans are at the heart of the eu's agenda, as set out in the 2020 strategy. that is why we need a europe that deals with the poverty of europeans, violence against women and all forms of discrimination. the most important challenge today is to maintain and strengthen citizens' trust.
in writing. european union day is celebrated on 9 may to commemorate the schuman plan, which was set up in 1950. this document marked the beginning of european economic integration, which became the basis for later political integration. it is safe to say that this was a turning point that marked the beginning of a peaceful cooperation. today, europe is in the grip of an economic crisis, but the european union is taking this very difficult test. it turns out that the community that has been built over the last 60 years in times of crisis is not selfishly looking only at its own interests, but is still trying to help other, many times weaker countries. there is one basic conclusion that may be comforting to some but also a warning. the eu has reached a level of integration where the effects of hesitation in any one country are felt by the other members. this is, of course, proof that integration has succeeded, since the aim was to achieve such a european body. however, it is important to remember that extreme caution is required in such circumstances. for the moment, the euro has been saved. together, we have helped financially the countries most affected by the crisis. today, the objective of each individual country and of all of us is to protect the european economy. our future depends on our responsible choices. now we must be united as never before. the european union's main objective today is to overcome the crisis for the sake of a common future.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president! - what are you doing? the roaming regulation we're voting on tomorrow is certainly a great success, and mrs. niebler is not only a great professional, but she's a very elegant and polite member of parliament. i will say frankly and very undiplomatically that i expected the european commission to come up with a much bolder proposal. we, the parliament and the commission, are community institutions and together we should have removed the barriers in the european union, fought for the common market, and in the meantime we not only had to negotiate hard with the council - it is a real pleasure to work with the danish presidency - but we had to cut the commission's proposals by at least half, very much. so i hope that future digital policy proposals will take more account of the rapidly changing technologies, the changing times, the rapidly changing needs of citizens and the needs of businesses, because - as the commissioner said - there is still a lot to do in this area.
madam president! today, when so many people in europe doubt the meaning of integration, doubt common solutions and feel that the union is for bureaucrats and not for people, the new rules on roaming may dispel some of these doubts and show that it is the union that can make decisions that benefit citizens and consumers. we don't always get to make rules that have such a direct application to everyday life. and so, in congratulating angelica niebler, i want to join her in calling for the dissemination of what we have achieved: reaching such an agreement between all the political forces, spreading this among the citizens, to bring the european union closer to them. i want to say that in this room, we're mostly talking about finances, whether we're talking about household budgets or pocket budgets. i think that's important, but it's not the only thing that's changing. in europe, in the world, it is simply a change in the way people live and interact with each other. increasingly, they are conducted by computer, telephone, and internet. we want more and more information, we want to be connected to our friends wherever we are, we want to travel more and more, and it's because our lifestyles are changing that this decision we make today is going to be so important to all of us. it is not just about reducing costs, but also about giving citizens more influence and control over their spending. companies will have to tell us about our accounts, our expenses, and we will decide how much to pay, and no one will make that decision for us. we're going to install smart meters in the apartments. we'll have access to smart phones from here.
the european commission's proposal and the report presented are moving in the right direction. however, actions to reduce roaming charges are still insufficient. instead of fixing maximum price ceilings for roaming services, a final date for the end of roaming in the european union should be set. only this solution will guarantee the full freedom of movement of persons within the union without exposing them to the costs of using all modern means of communication. global telecommunications companies that currently provide their services within the union are already able to operate across the borders of member states without additional costs. the functioning of roaming is a direct hit to the average european. it directly creates artificial barriers to communication, hinders travel, both tourist and business travel, educational travel, youth exchanges. it is in europe's interest to end roaming as soon as possible.
madam president! the compromise in the regulation to lower telecommunications prices is one of the most valuable solutions addressed directly to europeans. the 'roaming 3' regulation is the consequence not so much of the increasingly clear emerging common market within the union as of the actions of operators seeking to maximise profits at the expense of their customers. the actions of mobile operators are another example of how free market principles do not always live up to expectations. it is increasingly evident that in certain circumstances regulatory intervention is necessary to force the emergence of effective competition. there is no doubt that this is done with a clear benefit to the social and economic interest, as the falling bills of individuals and companies will contribute to the recovery of the economy. i have no illusions that operators will accept this proposal without resistance, but the example of the success of the previous legislation to reduce roaming costs seems to be the ultimate argument for this change. moreover, this market segment has undergone a major transformation in the last few years and is now de facto an oligopoly dominated by a few pan-european brands. it is therefore difficult to speak in this case not only of genuine competition but also of the existence of barriers to cooperation between individual national operators belonging to the same corporation. the way of life of citizens of the world, of europe, is changing, our working lives increasingly require us to travel abroad for short or long periods. any means of facilitating contact between the employer and the employee and vice versa should be made generally available. one of those tools is cheap roaming. however, i hope that today's debate and the 'roaming 3' regulation will not be the end of the road, but will only be another step towards the goal of minimising the cost of using telecommunications services. i'm not going to die. i congratulate you and the reporters on the professional work you've done on this report.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 10 may 2012. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. reducing charges on public mobile networks within the union is the next step in the process of market harmonisation, bringing europe closer to the ideal where consumers have free and affordable access to mobile telephony services throughout the eu. this regulation represents an innovative approach, as it not only proposes price caps but also a structural change in the market. it will also increase competitiveness between operators, stimulate the internal market and contribute to the mobility of citizens and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. the unification of roaming charges is very beneficial for eu citizens, as many europeans face high costs for their calls when living or travelling outside their own country and calling their families. from july, calls to mobile phones abroad will cost 29 cents, or just over 30 pence, and the price of an incoming call will be a maximum of 8 cents. mobile phones should be mobile, yet many eu citizens turn off their mobile phones, smartphones and tablets, fearing the high cost of data when travelling within the union. competition is still weak and operators continue to benefit from excessive margins, especially in data transmission. now, customers have to pay a few euros for 1 mb, and this holiday they'll pay no more than 70 cents. moreover, they will be able to choose the foreign operator they wish to use.
in writing. current prices for roaming services bear little relation to the costs of providing them for mobile networks. we're not talking about the profits of these companies, but the sheer cost to european consumers, who are still overpaying for phone calls, text messages, not to mention data transfers, as soon as they leave their country. the cell phone bill is now the guaranteed ticket to any foreign vacation. thanks to parliament, roaming charges have been reduced again. for the first time, this also applies to data transmission.
in writing. the cost of telephone calls between eu countries is still too high. i therefore welcome the proposals in the 'roaming 3' regulation to reduce them. it should be borne in mind that the removal of barriers to the internal market and the reduction of costs within the union not only lead to greater savings but also strengthen the community's competitiveness abroad. it is also one of the main assumptions of the theory of common currency areas which underlies the european community. we should therefore go further and, instead of setting a maximum price ceiling, we should aim at the total abolition of roaming within the european union. companies are technically prepared for such actions and therefore their balance sheet will not be affected by such decisions. similar rules should also be introduced for the transmission of internet data and internet access while travelling within the european community.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the outcome of the visit of the libe delegation to sicily and lampedusa.
mr. chairman, please! i'm impressed with the debates in this room today in general. we had a long talk about the future of the european union, because it's may 9. there have been some very beautiful and important words in this chamber about the need to defend the european union, to strengthen it. there were calls to speak more clearly, more loudly about federal europe, not to be afraid of federal europe. we talked a lot about solidarity, about cooperation, about helping each other, and now we're talking about immigrants. the debate on immigrants from the southern mediterranean, especially after all the historical events that you have talked about here, cannot be a debate between members of parliament from italy, malta, greece and other countries bordering the mediterranean. this is our european challenge. i listened to the dramatic speech of our colleague simon busuttil and i agree with everything he says about sharing responsibility for the fate of immigrants on our continent. europe is a destination, a dream destination for many, many thousands of people from countries in terrible difficulty. they're willing to risk their lives. many of them give their lives, as we saw in malta last week. all of us on our continent are responsible for the fate of these people who try to get to us, in different ways, often causing huge problems. but we are also responsible for the problems of the citizens, the governments and the local governments in those places that are in first contact with immigrants. looking at the statistics, in tiny malta, by 2012, 15,000 people had been rescued by the maltese army. i therefore call again for a common european policy on this dramatic problem, a very difficult problem.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the changes proposed by cecilia wikström in her report are personally important to me for two reasons. as the author of the report on the conversion of the brussels i regulation, i am well aware of the importance of a clear, unambiguous indication of the law applicable to a given dispute from the point of view of legal certainty. at the same time, as a former journalist who worked for many years in polish television, i am, of course, on the one hand, sensitive to media freedom, to freedom of speech, but on the other hand, i am also a fierce advocate of responsible journalism, whose main goal is to provide the public with reliable and verified information. rome ii leaves the question of what law applies in defamation cases unanswered. in an age of ubiquitous access to media and the transmission of information through their online editions, cross-border disputes are an easy path to a shopping forum or a tourism of defamation. that is why i think that the proposal put forward by our colleague is very balanced, since it takes into account both the rights of the person who has been defamed or is alleged to have been defamed and a reasonable approach to the issue of media freedom. i am convinced that it has the potential to fill the obvious legal gap in the current rome ii regulation. i am glad that the commissioner has announced that this amendment will be introduced next year, so we will be waiting for a legislative proposal from the commission.
mr. chairman, please! not long ago, we were discussing the creation of a common european patent in this house. the final work on the final shape is under way and its aim was to make patenting innovation easier and cheaper in the european union countries, so that we can have better protection of intellectual property and european technological thought. all this is absolutely the right course of action, but in working in this direction we must not forget that there may be cases of patenting - let us hope not - which will hamper the development towards which decisions on the establishment of a community patent are leading. it is precisely these issues that are the subject of a resolution tabled by the representatives of the majority of political groups in parliament, in which we wish to point out to the european commission certain solutions and interpretations already applied by both the judicial institutions of the union and the european patent office, of the provisions of the 1998 directive on the protection of private biotechnological inventions. the provisions of this document seem to have caused some difficulties so far. peter liese has spoken about this in various ways, particularly in articles 4, 5 and 6, which deal with the areas that are excluded from patentability. fortunately, recent rulings by the european court of justice, the european patent office, have dispelled these doubts. i am personally very pleased with the interpretation adopted by these institutions, and i therefore express my hope and conviction that the european commission will take these decisions and this idea into account in its future work and proposals.
on 9 may 1950, french foreign minister robert schuman called on the democratic countries of europe to come together to prevent a future repeat of the tragedy of world war ii. this day is widely regarded as the beginning of a united europe. the reconciliatory nature of the declaration towards germany and the openness to the participation of other european countries set new standards of political life in europe. today, 62 years after the schuman declaration was issued, it is still relevant. however, in the wake of the economic crisis that has hit europe, we are increasingly witnessing a worrying resurgence of local nationalism, racism and xenophobia on our continent. this is accompanied by a significant loss of confidence in the european union and the idea of integration. the union itself is currently facing the biggest identity crisis in its history. so what is the future of europe?
in writing. i believe that a well-developed network of regional airports and related services is definitely one of the determinants of the source of economic growth in the european union as a whole. in my amendments to the transport committee i have tried to emphasize from the outset that regional airports have a dual purpose within the european connecting system. first, they provide a convenient network of links between distant agglomerations with smaller populations, which cannot be marginalised. secondly, the well-developed network of airports, with the increasing number of connections and flights within existing ones, creates many risks. therefore, regional airports can provide an additional efficient network of emergency airports. looking at it from the perspective of the problems that were created by last year's icelandic volcano eruption. the creation of such a network is certainly a matter of some importance in terms of viability, and the inclusion of some airports in the ten-t core network will facilitate their co-financing. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the restoration of balance and thus competitiveness in the transport market should be at the heart of the regional airport network being established.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i give the discharge to the european parliament for the financial year 2010. as always, there is a temptation to look beyond the budget year in assessing the european parliament for a given year. i would like to make it clear that we are focusing on the 2010 financial year, given that this was the first year that the european parliament operated under the lisbon treaty regime. it was also the first year that we had hired assistants with different status than we had before. and it was also the first year that we had a full computational year. well, i will admit right away that in that first year we did not have significant amounts of interim budgetary transfers, there was progress compared to 2009. nevertheless, the court of auditors has identified three areas where further solutions and complementarities will be needed. the first is the question of the system of payment for groups visiting parliament. and we have to be careful, because this system has to work. two improvements to the procurement control system. and thirdly, better documentation of the human resources management in the european parliament. we as members of parliament have also pointed out the areas where savings are needed, especially in the context of the current crisis. as rapporteur, i also propose 16 amendments. we would like to point out as a place of savings the first one to abolish the so-called journalistic prize. this request was made in 2009. we are asking that this request be fully implemented. two points to the cost overruns in the visitor center. at the same time, we also point to the need for more detailed information on planned investment in the european parliament's buildings, although 2010 clearly shows that building, owning buildings is a cheaper option for the european parliament than renting buildings. security in the parliament. this is another concrete package of proposals and solutions that we have highlighted in this report. we are seeing progress, improvements in translation efficiency, especially in written translation. there is clear progress here, although much can be done within parliament in terms of timeliness of procurement. the two things that need to be improved on are our internal travel agency, where we're asking for a deeper analysis of the relationship between quality and the price we pay for the service. we note progress in the area of information systems and would point out that only 5.6% of the total eu budget devoted to administrative costs is allocated to the european parliament. however, within that 5.6%, we can make progress. the year 2010 has shown that progress has been made and that the efficiency of our institution has increased. i would like to thank all my colleagues and also the secretary-general for the effective cooperation and the court of auditors and our internal auditor for the results we have achieved together.
mr. chairman, please! i support the idea of a special commissioner for budgetary control. i would not have supported this concept if i did not know that we have to create one additional commissioner position anyway, because we will have a new member country in a moment croatia. so if we have to make that position, let's make it on this issue, because the citizens of the member states of the european union pay a very high attention to the accounting of the money that the european union, the agendas and the member states have at their disposal. that's the first one. second of all. we may differ: some are for an increase in the budget and the budget of the agency, others are against it. but everyone agrees that conflicts of interest are absolutely unacceptable and that these matters need to be cleared up once and for all, to be ended, to be transparent, transparent, clear and clear. otherwise the authority of the institutions of the european union will be diminished, including that of our parliament, which will not be able to react decisively.
we now have 32 european agencies employing 5.5 thousand people. the operating costs are approximately eur 700 million. the majority of them are undoubtedly justified in their activities: they work for the european institutions, facilitating decision-making, and they also fulfil community tasks, such as the frontex agency guarding our borders. however, there is a need to review their functioning, in particular their conflict of interest rules, many of which have come to light in recent years. this may undermine the credibility of the assessments, expertise and certificates issued by certain agencies and, consequently, also undermines the authority of the commission and parliament. the financial policies of the agencies also need to be assessed, as some as in the case of the human rights agency in vienna fail to use their budget, spending heavily in the last month of the year, or try to carry it over to the next year. consideration should be given in the future to the establishment of a temporary committee in parliament to review the functioning of the agencies in terms of the legitimacy of each of them as a separate body, and also to examine the principles of their functioning, in particular the problems of conflict of interest, impartiality or leakage of confidential information. these are very important cases. there is certainly a need for a debate on what constitutes a conflict of interest in order to ensure a high level of staffing of the agency on the one hand and the transparency of procedures on the other. we must remember that in times of economic crisis, when budgetary restraint is required of the member states, it is particularly important that the european union uses its resources carefully, limiting waste or irregularities and even fraud.
in writing. budget implementation in 2010 was challenging, as it was the first full year of the new members' and assistants' statutes, with a number of changes to the implementing rules for both statutes, representing a significant additional burden on parliament's administration. however, the ep budget was implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, as confirmed by the court of auditors' assessment that there were no serious deficiencies in the assessment of the compliance of the control and supervision system with the financial regulation. in this context, i welcome the opening of the visitor centre in 2011, which has already been visited by over 100 000 citizens, while suggesting that an analysis be carried out after 12 months of its operation to assess the public reaction and the associated costs and benefits with a view to the viability of the investment. i do not agree with the criticism directed at europarltv, which i personally see as a successful venture, which has yet to be evaluated, given that the pilot phase of the project is still ongoing. in the context of the 2010 discharge, the expenditure relating to the maintenance of parliament's seat in strasbourg, which amounted to eur - 51.500.000 in 2010, and the costs already incurred and projected for the next 20 years for the kad building in luxembourg, which exceed eur 800.000, are of great concern.
in view of the situation in ukraine - the situation of prime minister yulia tymoshenko and the european commission's announcement of a boycott of euro 2012 - i would like to ask, on behalf of our group, to request that a debate item and a resolution on human rights standards in ukraine, but also on the rejection of boycott as a means of influencing the situation of democratic standards and respect for human rights in ukraine, be tabled at the next session of the european parliament. we want to be together with the ukrainian people, but the whole ukrainian people, including the ukrainian opposition, wants euro 2012. let's play fair in sports and politics. i hope that this debate is very necessary and timely. this ball is a symbol of our good spirit in sports and in politics and this ball is for your chairman, to be given to mrs. yulia tymoshenko.
mr. chairman, please! i have supported the main points of the report on regional airports in the european union. for regions such as my kujawy-pomorskie region, the development of bydgoszcz airport is an opportunity to significantly increase the mobility of residents and to develop many businesses. this is also a condition for the increase in the number of tourists in the province. in such attractive cities as toruń, grudziądz or chełmno. it is also an opportunity for regions such as kujawy, paluch or tucholskie borys. i am saying this because in this context i would expect the european commission to increase funding for the development of regional airports in a clear way. these ports should also receive more extensive support from their state.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for this resolution. i share the reservations that were raised by my colleagues, even in this explanation of vote, and i share those reservations, but i voted in favour of them because i think the issue of regional airports is an important issue. it is also important for my country, for the various regions of poland, where the development of regional airports can contribute to two main issues. on the one hand, to increase tourist attractiveness, to develop tourism in these regions, and this is a great opportunity for poland. on the other hand, the development of regional airports also extends the investment and economic opportunities of these regions to a wider extent. if a city or a region can be reached by air, this very often determines its attractiveness, even as an investment. that is why i supported the report.
mr. chairman, please! i voted to pass the resolution. more and more citizens are using various types of mobile devices to connect to the internet. tablets and smartphones are now commonplace. the problems usually arise when they are used in the area of another operator, which is to say when travelling abroad. if the european union is to be an area without internal borders, the very existence of roaming seems to be unjustified. i therefore fully support the efforts to eliminate it in practice in the coming years. the proposal to sell roaming services separately, which will allow customers to choose an alternative roaming provider, is also an interesting solution at the moment. the new table of charges proposed for the next two years is useful, especially for data transmission. a balanced level of retail and wholesale prices should protect consumers from unexpectedly high bills for telecommunications services.
mr. chairman, please! the political aftermath of the arab spring offers hope for unfettered cooperation and development within the southern partnership. trade has always been one of the strongest pillars of the neighbourhood policy. unlike many aspects of the common foreign policy, it guarantees consistent action for the benefit of the member states. the concept of 'more for more' is the right way to establish fully democratic rules for the implementation of economic and trade policies without the need for the existing agreements with the oligarchs. however, the governments of the partner countries must make a serious commitment to mutual market opening. i therefore agree with the proposal to make greater efforts towards countries that show a willingness to make concrete reforms. i welcome the negotiating projects for deeper, comprehensive free trade agreements with tunisia, morocco, egypt and jordan. i also hope that the european bank for reconstruction and development will increase its investment in the mediterranean and i therefore support the report.
mr. chairman, please! i supported this report because piracy is one of the biggest threats facing the sea. and it's important to note that shipping is the primary means of delivering goods around the world. piracy off the coast of africa, however, is a little different from that which occurs in the south china sea, particularly in the strait of malacca. it is primarily due to the hopelessness of the situation, the lack of prospects, for example in somalia, which is the main link in this process. the solutions must be systematic, there is no way that convoys or direct action will defeat this piracy. there has to be a really systemic approach here, because you have to treat the cause and not the effect, because that's not going to bring any results.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen! the anti-dumping procedures in the european union are designed to protect our internal market from unfair trading practices. at this point, dumping should be distinguished from normal practices of selling products at low prices, which are the result of low production costs. it is therefore essential that the anti-dumping procedures available to the european community are applied in a fair and objective manner. it should also be mentioned that so-called 'tariff or trade wars' may at present lead to a deepening of the current economic crisis. on the other hand, closing borders to products of 'external origin' is a vicious circle, because in the long run such actions cause national economies to 'shrink'. however, it should be stressed at this point that unfair competition also causes losses in the economy. therefore, such cases should be closely monitored and appropriate action taken where warranted.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen! the russian federation is a major trading partner of the european union. the restrictions on imports of certain steel products from russia have so far been due to the fact that the russian federation has remained outside the world trade organisation. as you are well aware, the main task of the world trade organisation is to liberalise international trade in goods and services, to promote trade and to settle any disputes that may arise in this field. member states belonging to the wto must bring their domestic law into line with the standards set by the organisation. the accession of russia to the wto at the end of december 2011 has meant that the european community cannot apply quotas to the above mentioned goods. trade liberalisation, especially in the current economic crisis, can certainly have a positive impact not only on eu-russia relations but also contribute to some extent (in the long term) to the improvement of the mutual economic situation.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? regional airports are becoming important drivers of economic growth, stimulating the development of the cities and regions they serve. they also expand the lines of communication. unfortunately, the union's policy to date, which has focused on the key transport hubs, has not been profitable for the smaller ones. the regions themselves have an interest in making the latter more profitable. the proposals made in the report to enhance the efficiency of the union airspace will serve regional development. for example, for traffic relief and congestion relief in large ports, regional airports can be very effective. the idea of developing multimodal transport by means of a common rail and air ticket is a very good idea, with considerable benefits for passengers. by effectively eliminating some of the burdensome practices of low-cost carriers, we will also improve the comfort of travellers. regional aviation may prove to be key to the achievement of free movement of citizens as well as to the increase of the flow of goods and services. i support the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of postponing the discharge of the european environment agency and the european medicines agency because, as the rapporteur, mrs macovei, has pointed out, we are faced with a conflict of interest in both of these agencies. i agree with ms macovei that such conflict is damaging to the level of trust europeans have in the institutions and raising taxpayer concerns. i believe that, especially in the present difficult situation, the european union cannot afford to take such a risk. for the same reason, the agencies should be particularly committed to improving the efficiency of expenditure and the transparency of financial management. i hope that by 30 june all agencies will have taken the necessary steps to take account of the comments made today.
in writing. − the european parliament, which assesses the regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure every year. the 2010 report unfortunately indicates that these parameters are deteriorating. in 2010, the overall financial impact of the irregularity amounted to eur 2 193 million, compared with eur 1 757 million in the previous year. the decrease in revenue is particularly worrying as a result of vat losses, which are on average 12%, and customs losses. i believe that this must be effectively countered, because it reduces the real pool of resources that the member states can spend. i am in favour of an increased budget for the union, and that the expenditure should be directed mainly towards the leveling of the level of civilization. this is particularly important for countries like poland, which is growing faster and faster, but still needs a lot of effort and resources to catch up with the eu average. i would therefore like to stress that tolerating irregularities in the creation of the union's common revenue is in effect disadvantageous for the countries which have joined the union in recent years.
in writing. − the number of people making calls, sending texts or browsing websites while abroad is increasing. unfortunately, the prices for these services are very high and competition in this market is still minimal. such high roaming charges do not serve consumers or the european economy. i believe that the ability to make calls or to transfer data at a reasonable price is strongly linked to mobility. if we want greater mobility for citizens in the european union, we must ensure that mobile phone use is not hampered by excessive charges. unfortunately, many europeans still turn off their phones when travelling to another member state, fearing that the bill will be too high. telecommunications should be part of the internal market, but we will only be able to speak of such a market when domestic tariffs are aligned with roaming tariffs. i am in favour of a consistent reduction in roaming charges and this will be achieved gradually over the coming years. today parliament adopted roaming charges which are much lower than those proposed by the european commission. i am pleased that parliament has taken a more ambitious approach to this issue, with the regulation as adopted today taking greater account of consumer protection and introducing measures to stimulate competition.
in writing. - the adoption of the report is good news for consumers across the union. the ep will significantly reduce roaming charges not only for calls and messages but also for the first time for data.
in writing. − generally speaking comitology procedure refers to the mandate of the european commission to execute its implementing powers delegated to it by the legislative branch (the european parliament and the council). this delegation of power is now based on article 290tfeu. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty changed the comitology procedure, turning it into a new system for adopting delegated acts and implementing acts. the new rule 87a,in combination with the new rule 88, lays down the standard procedure to be followed where consideration of the proposed delegated act or implementing act by a committee responsible, are involved, this without being associated committees or committees jointly responsible. the procedure applicable in cases involving associated committees or committees jointly responsible is laid down in a new rule 88a. the revision of the rules of procedure is welcomed for it allows for the rapid approval of a delegated act or implementing act; it provided more flexibility in the process, all while strengthening the democratic principles of separation of power. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the amendments to the ep's rules of procedure were necessary because of the revolutionary changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon in the comitology procedure.
in writing. − i have voted in favor of the resolution on maritime piracy (2011/2962(rsp)) in an effort to continue the protection of all sea barring vessels and the men and women that work at sea. i strongly believe that this resolution can implement the appropriate measures to insure safer waters as well as hamper, if not stop, the actions of the so called pirates. many of our member states rely heavily on shipping, be it for imports or exports, or employment, either as a ship’s crew or, the vastly important fishing industry. therefore, we must demonstrate our willingness to do what is necessary to protect against this horrific practice. it is important that we continue, and even increase, our participation with the current actions being taken by the u.n., nato, the u.s. and others. it can be said that we as a democratic union will not lay down to the terrorists of the seas as it infringes upon the ideas which are greatly valued by us. the protection of our citizens and those of our allies is of the utmost importance and cannot, and will not, be undermined by these perpetrators.
in writing. - in 2010, somali pirates collectively received approximately 238 million ransoms, and attacked over 4,500 ships. their actions have in recent years created significant obstacles to trade, particularly in oil and its derivatives. the cost of marine insurance, which shipowners passed on to customers, also increased. worse, the scope of the attacks they're carrying out is increasing year by year. pirates are coming to the shores of india, attacking in the waters of the bay of bengal and indonesia. this case requires decisive military and relief action. as regards the first, the eu should not actively engage in military action, leaving the field to more experienced organisations, particularly nato. the alliance has always been a strong steward of europe's military interests and should remain so. our efforts must focus on the allocation of funds to help rebuild the chaos in somalia and the shoals of fish that have been caught by fishermen in the horn of africa.
the single market scoreboard is a very important document and we should all try to make it the centre of public debate. the european union is at the service of its citizens when we transpose community law well, and for that to happen, the data must agree. transposing the law is very important and for that you need numbers, and of course you need incentives and the exchange of best practices for example a survey or a good information site like your europe so that there are no missed opportunities. i am glad that the single market forum, which i proposed in my report two years ago, has grown to such a size that we are organising single market week this year. but first of all, i would like to see this project continued, to have a single market forum or single market week every year and even closer cooperation between parliament and the european commission in this project. only then will the internal market be truly understood and appreciated by all citizens and be at the heart of the debate. thank you, sir.
in writing. table of results of the internal market, s. busuttil a7-0153/2012 citizens, i.e. consumers and businesses, are a key component of the internal market and it is they who should be in mind when creating legislation or communicating information. however, they often have problems obtaining the right information and are not aware of the opportunities the internal market really offers them. often this is due to poor communication. i appreciate the commission's work in this area, but the number of information portals is often so overwhelming that citizens get lost and, as a result, cannot find the information they need. this is why it is so important to coordinate information tools. i have pointed out the problem of effectively communicating information about the single market on many occasions. in the context of the services directive, for example, the single points of contact were supposed to improve the situation, but they are not fully functional. the member states should implement the eu rules in such a way that the final beneficiary, the citizen, can enjoy the rights that we in parliament adopt. the internal market scoreboard is a good tool to motivate member states to transpose law efficiently. the latest internal market table has unfortunately shown that the trend in implementation of the law is negative compared to previous years. we should therefore send a clear signal to member states that the potential of the internal market can only be fully exploited if they are genuinely committed to the objectives of the internal market.
mr. chairman, please! in december, ten years had passed since the meeting in ottawa between then-chairman of the council rasmussen and canadian prime minister chrétien. they declared their joint efforts to deepen the ties between the european union and canada. much of that time was spent in the international arena. the european treaty has undergone two major transformations. the euro became the common currency of many countries in europe at that time. it also saw the largest enlargement of the european union in history. the shared values of the citizens of the european union and canada have given strength and strengthened the foundations of mutual cooperation, the scope of which has gone far beyond the original project. projects have emerged in the fields of property law, competition law and government procurement. not all new areas have been settled in the meantime, but it is clear that further work is under way to ensure full implementation of existing agreements. i therefore believe that there is a need for a new breath of fresh air - as i see it - in the economic relations between the european union and canada in this century. i therefore welcome the progress made so far in this area, namely equal visa-free travel for citizens of all the countries of the european union. of course, i remember that not all eu citizens are treated equally. the canadian side's explanations seem to be merely a drawing of time rather than a clear decision. we, the poles, experience this kind of treatment in our contacts with our neighbour canada the united states unfortunately we are treated at the american border as citizens of the european union, but second-class citizens. i believe that the negotiated economic and trade agreement between the union and canada must include not only economic but also civil solutions. if we allow for unequal treatment of citizens of individual eu countries, we will admit that a common foreign policy, which also includes visa issues, does not exist and we will do well to refrain from spending large sums on it. it should also be borne in mind that what we are advocating, the possibility of visa-free entry into canada, is only a counterbalance to the mutual rights of citizens of the union and canada, because canadians have such rights.
in writing. the report by emine bozkurt on the future of women in turkey is of particular importance because it addresses important issues such as the fight against violence against women, honour killings, forced marriages and the elimination of illiteracy among women. the fight against violence against women is one of the main challenges facing turkey. i welcome the plans to increase the number of women's centres and to set up telephone hotlines. however, i would like to stress that in addition to increasing the number of emergency measures, there must also be increased efforts to change the public mentality. the implementation of information campaigns, the promotion of gender equality in school education and the implementation of a zero tolerance policy for violence against women, especially in the case of honour killings and forced honour suicides, are essential elements in the process of changing the status of women in turkey. i welcome the fact that the gender gap in primary education has been almost completely eliminated, which will certainly contribute to the elimination of the negative phenomenon of illiteracy among women. however, i would urge greater attention to be paid to post-primary education, where there are still significant differences between women and men in access.
in writing. the europe 2020 strategy aims to restore the economy to its pre-crisis state. women's participation in the economy is essential to ensure a competitive market. turkey, as a candidate country for european union membership, is obliged to respect human rights and to continue to implement and monitor the implementation of legislative reforms. the gradual transformation of women's roles is to be welcomed, but much work needs to be done to normalise their participation, particularly in society, the economy and politics. the biggest challenge for turkey is to eliminate violence against women. according to a 2012 un report, 39 percent of women have experienced violence at some point in their lives. however, there has been a recent increase in awareness of the problem, as evidenced by the launch of a telephone hotline for victims. however, the system of support centres needs to be restructured and a zero-tolerance policy for violence against women is needed. there is a marked improvement in the education of women, and the ministry of education is making efforts to eliminate sexist language and stereotypes about social roles in school textbooks. the turkish government has decided to address the very low 30% female employment rate through the implementation of reforms. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new law and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new law. the above mentioned actions offer hope for increasing the role of women in turkish society.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament is keen to see how the european commission intends to remove the barriers faced by smes. although the allocation of funds in my country is relatively high in the current programming period, representatives of small businesses point out that the interest in funds and the demand are higher than the supply. i would like to point out that the specific nature of the polish sme sector is that it is dominated by very small companies micro-enterprises. they account for as much as 96% of all smes, of which more than two-thirds are self-employed. the commission has therefore decided to open the procedure for the adoption of the new regulation. moreover, in the midst of a deepening recession, the general deficit of own resources required for the union co-financing system is a hindrance. in addition, the excessive waiting period for the funds, combined with the lack of project backlog, should be noted. the european parliament should therefore simplify and improve procedures by preparing new rules from 2013.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! ladies and gentlemen! small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the foundation of modern economies and an effective tool to combat unemployment and the financial crisis, as they are the largest source of new jobs and the main driver of economic growth. according to european statistics, over 85% of new jobs created between 2005 and 2010 were in small and medium-sized enterprises. in europe, 99% of firms are small and medium-sized enterprises, employing a few or a dozen people. in this context, the commission's position is worrying, as it proposes to change the definition of smes by raising the employment threshold. so, commissioner, will smes have to compete for subsidies with companies with a few hundred employees and well-trained services that are only concerned with getting eu funds? will this not make it difficult to obtain support for research and innovation from the framework programme, which is awarded from above? the commissioner said that smes are the backbone of the european economy. as we know, the spine requires special care. without increased access to eu funds, without administrative restrictions and without simplifying the application process for funds, which is complex and too long, this committee, commissioner, will be one of many in the european parliament that identifies the problem, understands the reasons for its emergence, but unfortunately does not solve it. thank you very much. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen! both during the meeting with yulia tymoshenko and during the meeting with yuri lutsenko in prison, we talked most about ukraine's path to europe. it's a real dream of ukrainians. i would like to ask you, are we all in a position to say in this room today that if ukraine changes, we will support its european path? did we all support the timoshenko government on this? let's all remember how we voted three years ago! are we really being honest about this? there are two things that are important right now: first, we need to show ukraine, not one government or another, but the citizens of ukraine - as rebecca haras said - this perspective, and then demand change. this change has to be very concrete, it has to be about those who are being unfairly judged today, it has to be about judicial reform and municipal government reform. this is a very important issue, and prime minister azarov has also committed to it. and that would put power and decision-making in the hands of all the ukrainians who are watching us today. and on a fundamental point, i thank president schulz very much for the initiative and i thank commissioner füle very much for his real efforts to resolve the situation in ukraine. i need your help with one more thing. mr president, i would ask that the delegation of observers be large! commissioner füle, perhaps we can find additional means for eu citizens to come and support the elections. they can still prepare as observers. let's go back to 2004! this is the realistic expectation of all parties and political circles in ukraine. let's all go there as neighbors, prepared, not just politicians, but also ngos! it's a real neighborly gesture. let us say it clearly today: if ukraine changes, we will have the courage to say: yes, you have the prospect of membership in the european union. let's say it boldly today: as neighbors, today we can do one concrete thing - go and observe the elections. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. certainly, concerns about human rights standards in ukraine raise legitimate concerns and require a response. it is only natural that the european union should also insist on human rights, democratic standards and proper standards of the functioning of the judiciary in ukraine. it is right to speak about the situation that raises doubts, about mrs yulia tymoshenko and other examples that raise doubts about the standards in ukraine. it is quite another thing, however, to raise the issue of a boycott of euro 2012 by the european commission, which has publicly announced such a decision. the question is whether this decision is really serving the cause we all want to raise democratic standards, or is it also serving to clarify the dramatic situation in which the former prime minister of ukraine found herself? we know today that the ukrainian opposition does not join this kind of demands for a boycott or even the withdrawal of the euro sports section from ukraine. we know that for five years, most of the ukrainian people have been waiting for this joy of the sports experience associated with the celebration of european football. we also saw it as an opportunity for greater integration and bringing the ukrainian people closer to the european union, to europe. we also know that any decision to boycott could actually push ukraine into the hands of russia and putin, who is already wearing the feathers of a defender of ukraine and criticizing the european commission, probably gaining points with a large part of the ukrainian people. this is a delicate and wise matter. and it raises the question of our standards here in the european union: will we be as consistent with the sochi olympics that russia is hosting while occupying one-third of the territory of an independent country called georgia? will we be as consistent with belarus, which is hosting the world hockey championship, and also call for a boycott there? and finally, on what basis does the european commission advocate a boycott if it is not really entitled to speak on the matter? the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will be able to take a decision on the matter.
the situation is simple. we have done a great deal to ensure that ukraine, through the association agreement, establishes the rule of law and appropriate standards. but that's not what happened. the whole situation with the imprisonment of opposition representatives and the threats of further imprisonment has made this situation much worse. it cannot be that the representatives of the european institutions will behave as if nothing has changed. there's been a lot of talk about boycotting here, because boycotting can take many forms. i can't imagine that representatives of european institutions will officially come to the world cup, sit in the vip booth and applaud the games. if they really like football, they should buy a ticket with their own money, sit among the fans and enjoy football as private people, not as european politicians representing european institutions.
question put to antonio legutce according to the procedure of the "blue card" the leader of your party has called for the ukrainian part of the european championship to be moved to another european country. i understand you've called for a boycott of the state as well. are you satisfied that the compromise text of the joint resolution does not call for a boycott and that this satisfies both you and your party? thank you, sir.
blue card answer ─ i can only repeat what i said before, i.e. there must be some clear signal, it cannot be a 'business as usual' attitude. i'll say it again: if you like football, you can go there, but not officially, but as a football fan.
question asked in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure ms roithová was kind enough to speak in a rather principled manner on several occasions. first, you said that the prosecution in ukraine is dependent on the government. in my country, six months ago, the minister of justice was the attorney general and there was no opposition. don't you and your party think that firstly, ukraine is making some progress and secondly, that ukraine is not becoming like belarus but we are dealing with a game: ukraine in the european union or ukraine under the influence of russia? thank you, sir.
ladies and gentlemen! we talk about ukraine a lot, practically once a month we have a discussion about it, and please look at it from the perspective of whether the black and white colors are appropriate to describe the situation in this country. there are some very vile things going on in ukraine, because the vile thing is the imprisonment of the former prime minister and several ministers. but there are also big things happening, reforms are being introduced, where all the regulations of the so-called fiscal treaty are something simple. tax reforms and criminal law reforms have been introduced. at the same time, the economic climate in the same country has never been so bad. the level of complaint about the legal system that we hear from foreign investors has never been seen before. but in the same country, the new electoral law was passed earlier with the consent of the opposition. in the same country, the opposition has united to take a united stand against the party of regions. so i would like us to see all this before we can easily say that a new belarus is being born or that it is just completely terrible. this is an election year in which the citizens of ukraine must have the right - and we can help them with that - to have their say in a general plebiscite on whether the party of regions' policies suit them or not. and that's the main thing this year. so let's make sure that these are free and fair elections, because we have the right tools to do that - we already did that once, a few years ago - to make sure that these elections are free and fair. the ukrainian authorities are not helping us. talking about human rights standards is a beating of the peas against the wall, with no visible effect. but at the same time i am terrified by the chorus of wise men in the european union who want to throw out the baby with the bath and who think that this is a lost country, that we should stop talking to it and really push it into the arms of moscow. moscow sits quiet, moscow has free press, but its policy is actually implemented through all these zealots. and i want to protest against that. let's not spill the baby with the bath! i just wanted to say hello to mrs. jevhenia and to say that we're all very grateful for her fight to get mom out of jail. thank you, sir.
question put to mark siwc according to the blue card procedure. i have a short question for mr siwiec, as a member of parliament with a certain institutional background and who was head of the delegation to the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee: mr speaker, how was it after the orange revolution? did many members of parliament in this chamber repeat their mandate? when yulia tymoshenko was prime minister, were the provisions on ukraine's european path so eagerly supported, or were there constant problems with this? i think it's worth explaining this today because there was a time when yulia tymoshenko was in power and she could be helped. i hope when she's back in power, we can't refuse her that help.
the answer is the blue card. we do not have to go back so far, we only have to go back to last year when we tried to put a perspective in the relevant documents, invoking article 49 of the treaty, and there was no agreement to promise something that is already a perspective of distant, distant years. and when the orange faction was in power, it was the same, except that there was no treaty, because the treaty was actually, as much as someone might not like it, negotiated by representatives of the party of regions and they caused that this treaty is on the table today. but that doesn't change the fact that many people still have the same attitude towards ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! it should be quite clear that there are countries in europe that do not want ukraine in the european union. and there are also in this room members who do not want ukraine in the european union. the case of yulia tymoshenko disgraceful and unacceptable is being used to block ukraine's path to the european union forever, in cooperation with russia. working with this russia that murders journalists, bans all demonstrations, jails political prisoners. we should remember that and keep it in mind. but i see the ukrainian ambassador here. i'm not going to let you down. ukrainian officials are doing a lot to help the enemies of ukraine block your way into the european union. so i challenge you to help those who want to help you, because there are those here. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the fact that ukraine is geographically in europe, i hope, is not in doubt for those in this room. but i think it's worth realizing that ukrainian society feels like a truly european society. current opinion polls indicate that over 70% of ukrainians support ukraine's integration into the european union. i think in many countries of the european union we could dream of such an outcome. so, of course, on the one hand we must condemn the selective application of the law, the violation of human rights, the inhuman treatment of prisoners, the violation and restriction of freedom of expression, the persecution of businessmen simply because they support opposition parties, and we must of course demand democratic, free and fair elections, which we should help by sending as many observers from the european union as possible. but on the other hand, we cannot close the door of europe to ukraine. we must show that the european union is open to deep cooperation with ukraine. after all, the ukrainian people cannot be punished for the soviet mentality. finally, i would like to appeal to president yanukovych: mr. president, there are moments in history that determine where you will be. you can either be with the people who brought eastern european countries into western structures, with lech walesa, or you can be where alexander lukashenko is.
mr. chairman, please! on saturday, i had the opportunity to speak with ms. yulia tymoshenko at the hospital in kharkiv, where she is serving her sentence. i would like to thank the ukrainian authorities for agreeing to this meeting and for such thorough preparation that we had over an hour and a half to have a thorough discussion. i'll start with the medical information. it is sad indeed to see such an active man, such a hardworking and dynamic woman, bound to the bed and apparently suffering. nevertheless, we had a very interesting discussion on a number of issues, including, commissioner, the initiative of president schulz to undertake a last-chance mission to find a politician with authority in europe who will go and look again at this case of the indictment and conviction of ms yulia tymoshenko and take part in this last phase of the process, i.e. the cassation process. i have the impression from this conversation that there is a preliminary agreement from mrs tymoshenko on one condition: that she will be an impartial, impartial and independent person in her courts and that this name will be consulted also with the opposition in ukraine, and not only with the authorities, and i appeal to that!
today's debate shows that the european parliament and the union as a whole recognise the importance of ukraine as our partner, but as a partner that can be calculated. we are not indifferent to ukraine, we want it as a full partner in europe, but one that is respected, respects human rights and is governed by the rule of law. by imprisoning yulia tymoshenko and other oppositionists, the current president and government of ukraine are not choosing this european path. changes in the justice system, human rights, the introduction of self-government, all of which combined with free and fair elections, is the path that can confirm that ukraine is moving towards european integration. but let's send an important signal to the citizens of ukraine, here in parliament, that first of all, we are not talking about boycotting euro 2012, but in return we expect freedom for imprisoned oppositionists and we expect free and fair elections. thank you very much. thank you.
i think we should be more interested than ever in ukraine's cooperation with the european union, because we've been saying no to turkey for a long time. in serbia, the parties and forces that are anti-european and anti-european have won. the regime in belarus has not retreated, it is only getting stronger. and in putin's russia, we are not dealing with a process of democratization, but with a process of reversing the reins. i think we should care a lot. on the other hand, if you look at what is happening in ukraine, i have the feeling that there is also a strengthening of anti-european forces, although the public is against it. deputy prosecutor general kuzmich was here in parliament, we talked about the situation of yulia tymoshenko, we said that it was necessary to release her immediately for health reasons. all we've heard is that there'll be more trials, this time for the murder of mps. this does not mean that ukraine wants to cooperate with those who want ukraine in europe.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. fellow workers! there are many points in this report with which i agree. i have always been a strong supporter of the european union's links with international institutions such as nato, of establishing a common strategy to combat organised crime, of fighting terrorism together. it is also clear to me that today, many of the threats we face in the field of security are almost exclusively transnational, both within and outside the european union. therefore, in my view, it is important that member states are prepared to cooperate in this area and that this cooperation should be as close as possible. unfortunately, i am also a supporter of respect for the sovereignty of national states, including in the european union - especially in such a sensitive area as security - and that is why it was a difficult decision, but i abstained.
mr. chairman, please! as in my previous explanation of vote, i am obliged to say that i abstained this time as well. i abstained because, while i appreciate the need for cooperation and the need for some harmonisation of the procedures for combating crime, i believe that the member state should be the sole sovereign to decide on the form of criminal law applicable in a member state. the criminal procedure and the penal codes in the member states reflect differences which are not necessarily bad in the 27 member states of the european union - differences arising from cultural, historical and practical contexts, which are different in the various countries that make up our community. i therefore believe that in this very delicate matter, where we also have serious ideological conflicts, because some things are legal in some countries and not in others, we should be sensitive and leave it to the member states and concentrate on improving security cooperation within the framework of the procedures in force.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for this report. i believe that consumer protection is a very important task and a problem which, even in the most developed countries, such as the countries of the european union, remains a serious threat. but i want to talk about one aspect that is particularly important to me as a father of two daughters: advertising to children, who are already such vulnerable consumers today. this ad is not only aimed at young people who are not yet formed and can be very manipulative, but unfortunately it also teaches a very materialistic approach to life. it teaches that a child's worth is measured, not by his achievements in school, but by the toys he has or the clothes he wears. as a supporter of free speech, as well as a supporter of free advertising, i believe that if advertising is directed at adults, it is quite different from if it is directed at young and uneducated people.
mr. chairman, please! your highness! i voted for this report, as did the whole ecr group. we agree that europe today, but not only europe, is facing perhaps the greatest economic crisis in modern history. and it is certainly our duty as citizens of the european union to do everything in our power to put an end to this economic crisis which is already affecting so many of our citizens, our businesses. and certainly - in my view - one of those ways is to strengthen the internal market, because it is through the internal market that we are going to rebuild economic growth in the european union. i believe that the internal market scoreboard is a good tool to support the creation of the single market and to measure the contribution of individual eu countries to this market. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. fellow workers! i voted for mrs bozkurt's report. it is very good because on the one hand it evaluates the progress that turkey has undoubtedly made in the area of the implementation of human rights, in this case women's rights in particular, but on the other hand it draws attention very strongly to the specific and very painful problems that women in turkey continue to face. i would like to speak about the so-called honor suicides that i mentioned earlier. we have the right to expect that the turkish government will not only take a clear position on this matter, as it has already done, but that it will also make a very consistent effort to eliminate this terrible phenomenon from the life of turkish society. it is precisely because there are, i believe, many sincere friends of turkey in this house who support its european aspirations that we have the right to speak about all these important areas where turkey still falls far short of european standards. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - my group and i voted to accept the report. it is worth noting that the report emphasises the need to assess the feasibility of continuing the issuance of euro 1 and 2 cent denomination coins and suggests the possibility of issuing euro 1 and euro 2 banknotes. it also lays down the technical parameters for newly issued euro coins and euro collector coins in circulation in the union.
in writing. − in recent years, member states have often had to deal with events requiring extraordinary coordination and a pre-planned response to situations that threaten the safety of citizens. i'm not just talking about terrorist attacks, but also environmental disasters and food crises. that is why i consider the creation of a security strategy for the european continent a priority. there must be a system to coordinate decision-making centres, actions taken and methods of financing the contingency plan. the additional aspect is the coordination of the european union's security strategy with such plans in each member state. this is necessary for the system to function properly in the event of a threat. i hope we never get a chance to see if our threat response strategy is working. however, you must always be prepared for such a possibility.
in writing. − ensuring internal security is one of the key elements of the eu's internal policy. to ensure this, it is necessary to have qualified staff in the fields of both the internal security system of the union and the security of information network systems, crisis management and civil security. however, this cannot be achieved without taking into account the comprehensive approach to the european security strategy, which is based on a holistic concept of human security based on human rights, freedom, democracy, the rule of law, good governance and peace. a comprehensive approach to human security must be skillfully combined with relations with third countries, in particular in the areas of border management, migration, the fight against organised crime, terrorism and trafficking in human beings. and looking at the recent arab spring experience, it is important to remember that the eu's internal security is inextricably linked to the security situation in its neighbourhood, and in particular to highlight the importance of the european neighbourhood policy and to develop synergies between the eu and its neighbours.
in writing. - i support the report on the internal security strategy of the european union in its broad outlines. it is a fact that the threats are international in nature, in particular terrorism, cybercrime and organised crime. this is why they must be tackled not only at national level, but also through better coordination within the eu. in this context, however, i believe that the report is too vague as regards the role of europol and the union's ability to respond to natural disasters that may threaten security. i am strongly in favour of increasing the union's capacity to respond to disasters. today, the union relies mainly on national resources. in my view, common resources should also be created at union level, and this should primarily concern transport capacity, the available fleet of aircraft and helicopters that would reach the disaster sites quickly. it's not good today.
in writing. - consumers are a very important part of the internal market, and some of them require special attention. the assumption that we are all vulnerable consumers at some point in our lives is a valuable insight that should be taken into account in shaping eu policy, and in particular in initiatives to strengthen the internal market. i emphasise this, for example, in the context of the discussion on the development of social entrepreneurship. social enterprises pursue not only business but also social objectives, which means that they better understand the needs of sensitive consumers and can meet those needs more effectively. therefore, by recognising the role of social enterprises in the internal market, we will contribute to improving conditions for particularly vulnerable consumers. in this context, i would also stress the need to better inform consumers in general, which is even more important for sensitive consumers. reliable information makes consumers more active, more aware of their rights and more willing to use the procedures provided for them. for sensitive consumers, the type of information provided is of great importance, as this group of consumers needs more information to be able to participate fully in the single market. the report identifies the sectors most affected by the current crisis. identifying the areas that may pose the greatest risk to consumer safety is an important step towards strengthening consumer protection.
in writing. − in the age of the single market, european consumer rights are a matter of vital importance for all citizens. many people still do not know their privileges, do not know how to claim their rights, and are not familiar with the requirements that a salesperson must meet when selling their product. if consumers had this information, they could make quick and accurate decisions when choosing a product and, if they purchased a defective product, they could easily and quickly get their money back or exchange the item they had purchased. the european commission stresses the importance of informing consumers about their rights, returns and complaints. however, as the rapporteur points out, an information campaign may not be a sufficient means of support, especially for consumers who are particularly vulnerable to abuse by retailers. these consumers are children, the elderly or the disabled. that's why we should provide adequate legal protection for our most needy citizens.
in writing. - consumer protection is a very important element of the european union's economy. in the present day, when producers are fighting each other to sell their products (sometimes illegally, at any price), consumers are often the victims of various ways of circumventing consumer law. in particular, this type of case concerns the failure to inform consumers of the exact composition of a product (in the case of food). consumers themselves are often not fully aware of their rights to compensation or to complaints for obvious misleading information from the manufacturer. consumers are particularly unaware of their rights in the case of distance selling, electronic commerce or cross-border sales. it goes without saying that disabled people in particular have additional problems with the proper enforcement of consumer law and are often disadvantaged as a result. and research shows that groups that are particularly vulnerable to this are discouraged from taking action when problems arise. it is therefore very important that there should be regular information campaigns in the community countries to make consumers aware of the law which they can avail themselves of. i hope that in the long run, this will ensure that the seller/consumer relationship does not lose out (as it often does) in the event of disputes.
in writing. - my group and i voted to accept the report. it is worth noting that the report emphasises the need to assess the feasibility of continuing the issuance of euro 1 and 2 cent denomination coins and suggests the possibility of issuing euro 1 and euro 2 banknotes. it also lays down the technical parameters for newly issued euro coins and euro collector coins in circulation in the union.
in writing. - citizens, i.e. consumers and businesses, are a key component of the internal market and must be the focus of legislation and information. however, they often have problems obtaining the right information and are not aware of the opportunities that the internal market really offers them. this is often due to poorly communicated information. i appreciate the commission's work in this area, but the number of information portals is often so overwhelming that citizens get lost and, as a result, cannot find the information they need. this is why it is so important to coordinate information tools. i have pointed out the problem of effectively communicating information about the single market on many occasions. in the context of the services directive, for example, the single points of contact were supposed to improve the situation, but they are not fully functional. member states should implement eu legislation so that the final beneficiary, the citizen, can enjoy the rights that we are adopting in parliament. the internal market scoreboard is a good tool to motivate member states to transpose law efficiently. the latest internal market table has unfortunately shown that the trend in implementation of the law is negative compared to previous years. we should therefore send a clear signal to member states that the potential of the internal market can only be fully realised if they are truly engaged.
in writing. - i supported the report of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on the situation of women in turkey. in this context, the issue of violence against women is particularly important. the government has taken action in the right direction: appointed a new minister of family and social policy, created a parliamentary committee on gender equality, a domestic violence office, reorganised the system of women's support centres, set up telephone hotlines and established women's monitoring centres. turkey was the first country to ratify the european convention on violence against women. this policy must be continued, but it must be accelerated considerably! we need more action and more effective results. according to official figures, 39 percent of women in turkey have experienced physical violence at some point in their lives. they are victims of honor killings, forced marriages, psychological abuse. according to a un report, turkey has one of the highest rates of violence against women in the world. law no 4320 on the protection of the family needs to be amended to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to prevent violence, to protect victims and to punish perpetrators. the need for more effective action to combat honour killings and forced marriages. i ask the commission to systematically monitor the progress of the adoption and implementation of turkish legislation promoting women's rights.
in writing. − i agree that the citizens' initiative will be an important tool for european citizens to identify issues that the eu should address. i am very pleased that it was introduced in the lisbon treaty to give citizens the same right of initiative as that already enjoyed by the council of the european union and the european parliament. it will be a very important instrument in combating the so-called democracy deficit that many eu citizens feel. i hope that this initiative will make their voices heard better and that it will help to promote a wider cross-border debate across the eu. we should not be afraid of difficult subjects, and the eu should therefore allow its citizens to bring various issues to the attention of the european institutions.
in writing. − i support the amendment to the epi on the grounds that the committee on petitions needs to be more involved in hearings on european citizens' initiatives. the commission has a long track record of direct contact with citizens in the eu.
in writing. − i voted for (2011/2302(reg)) amending parliament’s rules of procedure with regard to the implementation of the european citizens’ initiative in an effort to demonstrate my support and great appreciation for this form of direct democracy. it is important that eu citizens are now able to directly affect the legislation that governs them in our union. i find it equally important to protect the involvement of the committee on petitions in citizens’ initiatives. for me that point is quite clear. however, there are others who feel that the committee on petitions, which has consistently worked on grievances from eu citizens, could somehow be left out of the process. it is this point that is unsettling. the committee on petitions is best suited, and has the required track record, to protect the grievances presented to the eu institutions by our constituents. furthermore, the committee has shown the patience and fortitude to ensure that all possible measures are taken to resolve any issues brought forth.
mr. chairman, please! we are facing a threat that is not limited to our continent. this is linked to the instability and uncertainty of the financial system. it only takes one country to become unpredictable for all of us to feel the real danger of economic chaos. but before we scapegoat greece, it is worth recalling that not only greek officials but also the banks operating there and european officials who had the duty of overseeing and controlling the processes were involved in the falsification of the greek deficit figures. moreover, greece's debt is mainly the result of the instability inherent in the structure of the common market and the euro area, the problem of deindustrialization since the country's accession to the community and the problem of cheap credit. the continuing imbalance in the balance of payments in favour of the main european economies could not have had any other effect. it's time for a change, to correct a flawed policy. it's time for growth. in this situation, it's important to remember - and i quote the words of the polish economist ladislau dowbor - that providing workers with better wages and greater rights is not demagoguery, but the simplest, most direct way to create demand and good economic conditions. it's investing in the people who drive the economy.
thank you, mr president! more and more, from all sides, we hear the voices of europe's citizens calling for action to restore the european union to sustainable and stable growth. they show that the crisis has not killed the spirit of europeans and that we are still able to fight for a better tomorrow. i am delighted that the next informal european union summit will be devoted to policies to support growth and jobs. most of the recent crisis-fighting instruments focus on national budgetary discipline, which in itself will not provide europe with growth or stable employment in the long run. it is important to remember that budgetary discipline does not exclude pro-growth actions, on the contrary, pro-growth and precautionary actions should go hand in hand. this is the only way we can restore europe's growth to a secure level. it is time for social investment, which should operate on the six-pack economic model and be monitored by the european commission, with the agreement of the european countries. the most effective way to increase competitiveness and employment is to use the union and member states' budgets rationally and to direct them towards social investment. thank you, sir.
in writing. the people of the european union share the common belief that all people are equal and have the same rights. unfortunately, in many member states, including poland, the level of tolerance for sexual minorities is still too low. last sunday i participated in the march for equality in krakow, which was held under the slogan 'diversity, solidarity, equality'. only our diversity was bright, colorful, friendly. the counter-demonstration organized by the national revival of poland militants was filled with sick hatred. homophobia, like any phobia, is a disease and needs to be treated. however, what we are seeing in poland is not homophobia, but chauvinism of sexual orientation and therefore it must be fought by passing the appropriate laws. in addition to good law, it is necessary to actively promote equal opportunities and to increase social awareness of equality by, inter alia, addressing non-discrimination issues from pre-school onwards, in all policy areas. in the european union, only a directive setting out a uniform minimum level of protection for persons who are discriminated against on grounds of age, sexual orientation, disability, religion or belief can put an end to discrimination against persons of a homosexual orientation. the full separation of church and state is also crucial, as homophobia and the laws that discriminate against people with homosexual orientation are particularly well-suited to flourish, especially where religion plays too large a role.
mr. chairman, please! the rapporteur's suggestions to change from a passive approach to active action to anticipate the situation and not just follow developments are right and should be accepted. the question is how to prepare and react to a situation where bluefin tuna catches are in many ways special. it is clear that we must protect the spawning grounds, impose a minimum size for tuna to be caught, prepare for caging operations, not to mention the creation of reserves, but this is not enough. thinking more globally by creating coherence with other legal obligations. we know what needs to be done, but often the political will is lacking. the profits from fishing are so high that they encourage harmful and, of course, illegal fishing. international management and control measures have been put in place and we are moving in the right direction. let's hope this time it works.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i agree with mr brunon gollnisch, who said that we must find a way of doing business with china that would solve all the problems of inequality in market access and in the treatment of each other, which our colleague's report speaks very well about. i do not think that protectionism is the answer. greater competitiveness in europe is the idea of how we can compete with the chinese economy, which does not necessarily mean competing for the lowest wages. china is the eu's number two economic partner, and we are china's number one economic partner. china is our primary source of imports, and considering that they are the two largest economies in the world, that speaks to the gravity of the problem we're talking about here. i would like to conclude by saying one thing: when we consider the question of economic relations with china, which are undoubtedly crucial for the future of both our economy and that of china, we must never forget that our trade relations must include an element of human rights protection, which is still a problem for chinese society and the chinese state. when we do business, let's not forget that we have to meet standards, not just social, environmental standards, but also human rights standards, even in that great country. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank mrs marielle de sarnez for an excellent report which addresses all the major issues of trade and economic relations with china, such as the difficulties of investing in the chinese market, the problems of access to the chinese public procurement market, the issue of intellectual property protection and even the issue of the value of the yuan. however, the economic issues in the eu-china relationship do not solve the problem of our relations. there is a huge asymmetry between, on the one hand, european companies operating on the principle of profit maximisation, moving their production to china or exporting to china or importing from china, and, on the other hand, a perfectly organised action, largely politically directed by the chinese state, very strong, recently very strengthened, which operates on a global scale. the chinese are doing great, trading and investing in africa, latin america, asia and europe. the problem is that we have to answer a question that is not only economic but also political today: what are the consequences? and it's clear, as my colleagues have said, that the chinese don't always follow the rules of international trade or the standards that we would like to see universal. there is a great need for the european union to pool its strength and present a single position to china (and it has the instruments to do so) in such a way that these standards, which are most important to us, are respected by the chinese, not only in relations with the european union, but also in the context of investment elsewhere in the world. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! thank you for this interesting report, mrs merielle de sarnez. i would like to say that first of all, china is the world's largest exporter of goods, the second largest trading partner of the union and a major world economy. at the same time, it is a country with a very large population. all of this indicates that in times of crisis the european union must, so to speak, re-examine its relations with china. secondly, the chinese side has a number of measures such as subsidies, price, currency or social dumping, devaluation of the yuan, and tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. therefore, this requires a response to ensure that trade between the union and the people's republic of china is on a level playing field and that this priority is also taken into account. thirdly, the union must work more actively to make the chinese market more open to european companies, in order to reverse the negative balance and make the chinese market a more welcoming environment, especially for european investment. fourth, there is an urgent need to eliminate all human rights abuses in chinese companies. fifthly, the issue of corporate social responsibility should also be raised with regard to european businesses in their relations with china, so that they can put this idea into practice. european companies operating in the people's republic of china should apply eu labour and human rights standards. thank you very much. thank you.
i call the debate to a close. written declarations (rule 149)
in writing. in view of the significant disparity in trade between the eu and china, we believe it is essential to take appropriate steps to extend the principle of reciprocity to eu-china economic relations. one source of this inequality is the chinese state's favouring of its own economy by creating certain obstacles for eu investors, including by limiting the forms of doing business in china to joint ventures. this is sometimes protectionist in nature, as it makes it difficult for foreign investors to take majority stakes in chinese companies and requires technology transfer, which reduces the competitiveness of eu companies. another major problem is the respect for intellectual property rights (ipr). until china implements regulations to ensure the protection of ipr, there will be no level playing field. furthermore, i would like to note that there is no substantive basis for china to express regret at the existence of alleged barriers in the eu in the form of subsidies for farmers or tariffs on agricultural products, given that there is a whole range of similar legal instruments on the chinese side. we will support any changes that bring the chinese economy closer to meeting the wto criteria of a market economy and to eliminating trade imbalances with the union.
in writing. the european union has found itself in need of redefining its relations with china, which has become a key player in the international arena in almost all areas in a relatively short time. the key to europe's relationship with china should be a partnership based on reciprocity. in this spirit, the chinese could expect equal and unfettered access to the investment and public procurement market from europe, to the benefit of european consumers. but at the same time, the european union must demand the same rights for european investors and entrepreneurs operating in the chinese market, i.e. to provide them with appropriate training, guidance, support in finding partners and help in solving specific problems. in my view, such functions should be actively carried out by the relevant eu diplomatic representation cells in china, without discrimination. at the same time, the eu will only have a chance to compete with china on a level playing field if it invests fully in research and innovation, thereby developing the sectors whose products are most in demand on the chinese market. the transfer of technology to china should be constantly compensated by the creation of new solutions that will provide a lasting and sustainable demand for european industrial production. this should be taken into particular account in the process of negotiating the sectoral financial allocations in the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru, by vital moreira, bernda lange and mário david, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000107/2012 - b7-0114/2012)
i call the debate to a close. written declarations (rule 149)
question asked according to the blue card procedure. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to ask you about your view that the eu budget is too high. your group would be aiming to reduce it. you're from a new member state. could you tell us which budget lines for the new member states you think are particularly high and how much should they be reduced?
this proposal has been harmful from the start, and parliament, as is often the case, wants to make it worse. the penalty of invalidating transactions for which the financial transaction tax has not been paid is detrimental to legal certainty. it's a manifestation of the primacy of fiscal interests over the real economy. contrary to the intentions of the ptf, it will not only hit the most speculative practices, it will hit the entire financial market, which also feeds the so-called real economy, which today needs money more than ever. in the wake of the crisis, many european politicians are proposing new taxes: carbon taxes, environmental taxes, energy taxes, finally the ptf, finally the coordination of income taxes. this is the worst possible recipe. europe needs competitiveness today, and the new taxes are killing it.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i would like to congratulate mrs anna podimat and thank her for a very good report. i also welcome the position of the european commission on this submission. i also feel a new spirit has come from the council. however, i would encourage the danish presidency to continue to try to reach a common position with the council, the commission and parliament. i am concerned about the diversity of views on the part of the european people's party: various speeches, including sometimes speeches that were particularisms, when they said: 'we are swedes' or 'we are dutch'. i am glad that we have the opportunity - instead of focusing on how to save millions - to talk now about how to get the billions that the european union can use as its own resources for growth, new jobs and new development opportunities. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. the debate in the european parliament is of great importance, since we are talking about an amount of over 50 billion euros that could be put into the community budget every year. this would allow the burden on national budgets to be gradually reduced. it is worth noting that the financial transaction tax meets most of the criteria set by parliament for assessing the ease of own resources, including sufficient revenue, stability, visibility and simplicity, low operating costs and efficient allocation of resources. i therefore believe that the tax revenue should be used in full, or at least in a substantial part, as own resources. this would require its introduction in all member states and effective coordination mechanisms.
in writing. the global economic and financial crisis has had a serious impact on the economies and public finances of the member states. there is no doubt that the financial sector played a significant role in causing the economic crisis, while the cost of the rescue programmes was borne by central budgets, that is, by de facto european taxpayers. there is a strong consensus in europe and internationally that the financial sector should be more involved in the cost of rescue programmes. the fiscal intervention is also justified by the relatively low taxation of the financial sector compared to other sectors of the economy. the commission proposal for a directive on a common system of financial transaction tax is a concrete expression of these demands. the european union is thus the first g20 country to come forward with a constructive proposal for regulation in this area. i consider the proposals made by the econ committee to be useful. the main points to be noted here are the introduction of an additional emission criterion in addition to the residence criterion for the purposes of defining taxable transactions, the exclusion of pension funds from corporate taxation and the establishment of preferential rates for trading on regulated markets. i consider the amendment tabled in plenary session, which excludes investment funds from the taxation in question, to be harmful. in my view, this proposal distorts the idea of a financial transaction tax, since it excludes a large number of financial institutions from taxation and thus reduces the effectiveness of this regulation.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr martin for his excellent work and also to thank the shadow rapporteurs. very limited powers were given to committees of inquiry under the maastricht treaty, and they were not commensurate with the stature of the european parliament. with the treaty of lisbon, parliament was endowed with political control. when it comes to democratic scrutiny, we simply have to give teeth to our procedures. investigators on the spot request documents; here, officials from eu institutions and member states ask national authorities for assistance – and, yes, there are sanctions. these are not, mr fox, european union sanctions; they are applied in accordance with national procedures by national authorities. we are not dogmatic. for example, in the course of negotiations we dropped language which would have given the impression that committees of inquiry behave like a court. we recognise the possibility of authorisation for a given official to appear before the committee being denied by his superior, but in such cases the official should come before the committee and explain the reasons. we are flexible and open to compromise, but we will defend the prerogatives of this house commensurate with its elevated political status and its stature. we have to strengthen the democratic scrutiny by parliament of the eu process.
there is a very strong division in this room on whether there should be a common financial transaction tax in europe. as far as i'm concerned, i think that such a tax should be made compulsory. the european financial sector must be made to bear at least part of the costs of overcoming the current crisis, to which it has actively contributed. today, the burden of recovery lies primarily with the taxpayer and the consumer, which is clearly unfair. there is also a second important reason for taxing transactions between financial institutions. it is the need for the union to create much more, but also - and this is very important in my view - its own financial resources, which would be more dedicated to investment and job creation. in other words, i'm in.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report as a whole because i believe that the proposed regulations will in practice place an undue burden on the citizens who are already suffering from the economic crisis in europe. the imposition of new taxes, while appealing to the demands of the fight against the crisis, is a road to nowhere. in my view, the solutions contained in the directive will not contribute to the achievement of the objectives pursued and will only cause confusion and have negative consequences for the economies of european countries. i agree that the financial sector has been the main source of the crisis, and therefore bears a great deal of responsibility. however, a common tax system risks negatively affecting the union's development and competitiveness at global level and would place a disproportionate burden on the financial sector in individual countries. the economic situation of their citizens is very diverse and the system of financial transaction tax should therefore remain within the competence of the member states.
china is already shaping the economic situation of the world. they're growing at a steady rate of 10 percent, and they're going to be the strongest economy in the world by the middle of this century. policy towards beijing must therefore be based on a carefully developed strategy that looks many years ahead. the european union, as china's largest trading partner and main consumer of chinese products, must build trade relations on the basis of a partnership of equals and mutual benefit. the report takes account of a number of elements which make this assumption possible. this is primarily a requirement to remove trade barriers to access the chinese market. the weak protection of intellectual property is also a problem, making it difficult for companies offering advanced technologies to invest in china. the chinese raw material policy, which clearly discriminates against european counterparts, is also causing complications for the industry. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy.
in writing. − in november 2010, in paris, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) amended the multiannual recovery plan for eastern bluefin tuna. the history of bluefin tuna fisheries management is complex and eu legislation on this subject is very extensive. the eastern half of the bluefin tuna stock is the most highly regulated in the eu, and perhaps the world. the eu and its member states spend huge sums to ensure compliance with these rules, and this has undoubtedly resulted in much stricter compliance. today, things are much better than they were even a few years ago. i therefore voted, as did my group, to adopt the report in the form accepted by the committee on fisheries, which rightly did not take account of the rapporteur's amendments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments to the regulation on the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. in recent years, the number of this fish has decreased. therefore, action should be taken to rebuild those stocks by 2019 at zero catches or at their current level by 2022. to this end, it is necessary to reduce the fishing opportunities from 13500 to 12900 tonnes. i fully support the amendment concerning the strengthening of controls, the extension of the closed season for seagulls in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, the prohibition of joint fishing operations with non-eu vessels or the strengthening of measures to reduce fishing capacity. to this end, it is necessary to have a specific documentation system in place to limit profits from illegal, undocumented and unregulated tuna fishing. i believe that the amendments introduced can make a significant contribution to the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks and to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i support the report. any action to improve environmental protection is always worth considering. the report put to the vote today is an example of an initiative which is very important for the protection of marine fauna and flora, which are most vulnerable to the effects of possible disasters linked to the transport of oil. we can see their size from the tragic deaths of the oil tankers erika and prestige. the double-hulled design of such vessels will provide much greater protection against failure of the contents of their cargo tanks, thereby reducing the risk of pollution. this solution seems particularly desirable for navigation in the relatively shallow waters of the european coast. the commission has proposed to convert the existing legal acts into a single regulation in this field. this is a cost-effective solution that does not impose any additional burden on the budget. the extension of the deadline for objecting to delegated acts will also strengthen that procedure.
in writing. i remember very well the oil spills caused by the tanker accidents that were very much in the media. these were huge ecological disasters and tragedies for marine life. the 'double-hull' design protects the cargo tanks from failure and thus reduces the risk of contamination. in single-hulled vessels, the oil in the cargo tanks is separated from the seawater only by the bottom and the side plates. if this plate were damaged by collision or by a ship being stranded, the contents of the cargo tanks could leak into the sea and cause significant pollution. i therefore fully support the objective of this regulation, which is to reduce the risk of accidental oil pollution in european waters by accelerating the introduction of double hulls.
in writing. - i voted for this recommendation, as did the ecr group. the agreement with mozambique is considered a strategic agreement as it ensures the continuous presence of the european fishing fleet in the indian ocean and can provide an excellent alternative, given the increase in piracy in other exclusive economic zones further north. i agree with the rapporteur that the signing of the agreement is an urgent matter. i also support the call for the commission and the council to present a report assessing the results of the application of the fisheries protocol with mozambique, in order to enable the fisheries committee and the european parliament to deepen their knowledge of the subject.
in writing. - as the eu's financial transaction tax is a threat to the union's growth and competitiveness globally, i voted against the podimata report, as did the ecr group.
in writing. - i welcome the outcome of the vote on the report on the common system of a financial transaction tax. the 487 votes for and 152 against say a lot. the socialists and democrats political group has been calling for this tax to be introduced for several years, imposed on speculators and big players in the stock market, who have contributed to the current economic, financial and crisis of confidence. i voted in favour of the idea that we would have new sources of funding for european projects to support growth, create new jobs and restore faith in the european project. parliament and the commission have passed the test, and the council should give serious thought to its attitude so far. the new council's breathing was felt in the statements of the danish presidency. it is worth noting that the myths surrounding this tax have been dispelled, citizens and the economy can only benefit, without additional costs.
in writing. − the global economic and financial crisis has had a serious impact on the economies and public finances of the member states. there is no doubt that the financial sector played a significant role in causing the economic crisis, while the cost of the rescue programmes was borne by central budgets, that is, by de facto european taxpayers. there is a strong consensus in europe and internationally that the financial sector should show greater commitment, given the costs of overcoming the crisis and the current relatively low taxation of the sector compared to other sectors. the commission proposal for a directive on a common system of financial transaction tax is a concrete expression of these demands. the european union is thus the first g20 country to come forward with a constructive proposal for regulation in this area. the proposals developed by the econ committee, which additionally introduce an issue criterion (a financial transaction is taxable even if the instrument was issued by a legal entity registered in the eu) in the identification of taxable financial transactions and exclude pension funds from the scope of corporate taxation (thus not increasing the cost of long-term savings), should be considered useful. i object to the exclusion of investment funds from the scope of corporate taxation. in my view, this proposal distorts the idea of a financial transaction tax, since it excludes a large number of financial institutions from taxation and thus reduces the effectiveness of this regulation.
in writing. − the economic crisis that erupted in autumn 2008 started in financial institutions. one of the most important lessons we should take from this crisis is the need for immediate regulation of financial markets. unfortunately, that lesson was not learned. speculative institutions continue to threaten the security of individual member states, the euro area and the european union as a whole. however, i very much welcome the european commission's initiative to introduce a financial transaction tax. the demand, which was raised for years by the anti-globalisation movement and then the party of european socialists, has gained the support of an institution that for years was not known for its openness to such solutions. the financial transaction tax should fulfil two basic functions. first, to help curb financial speculation. secondly, to be an important source of revenue for the eu budget. these resources should then be invested in stimulating growth, including through the creation of new jobs. this is linked to a new model for tackling the economic crisis, which the union is very much looking forward to adopting. after four years of crisis, it is hard to be under any illusions about the effectiveness of austerity and austerity. in view of the above, i have decided to support the report on the common system of financial transaction tax.
in writing. - a new tax should be created. it must be a tax that does not affect industrial sectors and employers. the ftt gives you that opportunity. but i think it has to be a rational shape. it should therefore primarily cover only euro area countries or all countries without exception, including the united kingdom and sweden. this will avoid attempts to shift financial activities to ftt-exempt countries. the revenue from this tax should support cohesion policy. only then can we be sure that they will be a stimulus to economic growth.
in writing. - in the context of the crisis in europe, it is essential to seek a balanced trade relationship with an economic power such as china, which has recorded an economic growth rate of 10% for 30 years, mainly due to exports, of which the union is the main recipient. opening trade is clearly more beneficial for china, which reached a peak of eur 395 billion in global trade in 2010, while eu foreign investment in china in the same year was only eur 4.9 billion. in seeking to level trade relations with china, the union must defend the social market economy model, which requires reciprocity and protects the interests of europeans, and promote the concept of development, democracy and human rights in our partner. we should strive to make the chinese market more competitive and open to eu businesses on equal terms and on clear terms. today, this is hampered by government interventionist industrial policies, insufficient protection of intellectual property (ip) and an ambiguous system of standards. we must therefore promote and help implement eu good practices and put pressure on china to respect common trade standards, especially in the area of imps. with 85% of counterfeit goods stopped at eu borders coming from china, it is hard to talk about competitiveness and respect for rights. this must change if we are to be considered equal trading partners. i agree with the rapporteur that we need a new balanced approach to eu-china trade relations that can meet today's market challenges and help to contribute to the economic growth of both sides.
in writing. − trade relations between the eu and china should be based on a partnership of equals. unfortunately, european companies are currently not allowed to invest in china under similar conditions as chinese investments in europe. there are also other trade barriers, such as the granting of export subsidies and credits in certain sectors, the requirement to obtain national certificates, or regulatory opacity. according to the 2011 data, 43% of ceos of european companies operating in china considered that the measures adopted by beijing were discriminatory against them, compared to 33% in 2010. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of an important and well-prepared report on 'the european union and china: imbalances in trade relations'. this report is of great importance for the development of trade between china and the european union. the union is right to be concerned about fair, sustainable and favourable trade. we are aware of the advantages of china and the advantages of the eu, and we want them to be realised in conditions of fair competition, taking into account also the political, economic and social implications of chinese investments in the world, especially in developing countries. opening up chinese markets, complying with wto rules, access to raw materials, technology transfer are all important issues that have been rightly raised.
in writing. - the european union is china's largest trading partner. unfortunately, the situation is not the same on the other side. the trade balance is still negative and is negatively affecting our economy, increasing unemployment, so we should take active measures to protect our market and balance the trade deficit. china must sign declarations on environmental protection and co2 reduction and must accept the imposition of anti-dumping duties on products from the middle east, e.g. cement, building materials and footwear. in times of crisis, we must protect our market more strongly.
in writing. - i fully agree with my group that national parliaments are the right arena for many of the powers provided for in this report. the powers mentioned in the report are not needed at european level, especially as regards the summoning of witnesses and the penalties for those who refuse to cooperate. the powers to carry out on-the-spot inspections, to request documents, to question officials and other servants of the union and of the member states, to call witnesses and to request an expert report seem to go too far.
in writing. - the ep's position is a reasonable introduction to negotiations with the council on the exercise of the parliament's powers of inquiry under the lisbon treaty.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the sudan conflict has been the focus of world attention for years. at the moment, after the creation of an independent south sudan, it is no longer a civil war, but all the actions of both sides bear the marks of an international conflict. if the southern army is also supported by ugandan troops, we could be facing a regional armed conflict. the current actions of the international community towards both sudanese states may seem incomprehensible. the south is trying to implement the un resolution, as evidenced by the decision to withdraw troops from the disputed heglig territory and the declarations of readiness for talks. meanwhile, the world officially condemns the aggressive actions of the authorities in khartoum, but makes no decisions, for example, on the nature of sanctions. there is also no coherent strategy to deal with the refugee problem, which threatens to be a humanitarian catastrophe. there is also no response to the booming arms trade. the regular arming of the sudanese army by china, russia and belarus, as reported by witnesses, is particularly reprehensible. more than half a million south sudanese citizens living in the northern border provinces do not have a regular legal status. this is a very dangerous situation in the face of ongoing ethnic cleansing. so far, no plan has been implemented for free movement in the border zone. this fact alone has highlighted the need for new demarcation of the border on certain sections. the fact that president bashir has been indicted and prosecuted for genocide by the international criminal court is reason enough to harden the west's, including european, policy towards khartoum. the oil business must not be a barrier to the proper functioning of international cooperation and the prevention of discrimination against the population. while calling on both sides to end the hostilities and engage in constructive dialogue, i also call on the international institutions and on vice-president ashton to actively engage in the work to find a proper solution to the border dispute.
mr. chairman, please! the declaration of independence of south sudan on july 9 last year was a moment of joy and fulfillment. a new era has begun for this country. and the prospects seemed good. the country's vast oil reserves provided a decent income. south sudan also receives aid from foreign donors in total, in 2011, they declared aid worth a total of $700 million. but less than a year later, south sudan's prospects are no longer so optimistic. why would you do that? i think we should have a good understanding of the circumstances. south sudan has virtually no tax system. in theory, taxes are levied, but in practice, the system doesn't work, and that's why oil revenues account for 97% of the state budget. the problem is that south sudanese oil can only be transported by a single pipeline running through sudanese territory to the city of port sudan. it would be hard to expect recent enemies to be easy to work with. there were complaints and allegations from both sides. south sudan has long preferred another option to transport oil through kenya to mombasa. a preliminary agreement for the construction of the new pipeline was signed in december 2011. the problem is that a month later, president kiir shut down the northern pipeline, which didn't sit well with the sudanese. i think that without resolving the oil and transportation issues, there will be no stability in this region.
thank you, mr president! ladies and gentlemen! south sudan, which won its right to secede after the longest war in modern africa, has long been considered the world's epicenter of poverty and misery. the new state, though it has closed one of the tragic stages of its history, has faced another, and it seems that it is not any easier, because at its foundation lies the old cause of conflict, namely, unequal access to natural resources in the north and the south. we know from media reports that there have been numerous clashes on the border between sudan and south sudan in recent weeks. military operations in disputed areas have had tragic consequences for civilians. according to un officials citing the south sudan humanitarian commission, the fighting has already forced more than 500,000 people in the heglig region to flee their homes, with most refugees taking shelter in the bush. the current conflict was easily predictable, so why was it not avoided? why do we have to repeat the same patterns in different parts of the world? why is it that the glorious thrill and desire for freedom comes first, and then bloody greed often prevails? we still haven't learned that lesson. i'll end with a quote from thomas jefferson: "the price of freedom is eternal vigilance". thank you, sir.
after the referendum and the secession of south sudan, relations between the two countries are far from normalized. international opinion has long been watching the escalating conflict between south sudan and sudan over the oil-rich border region. both countries are fighting in the border areas. the issue of the amount of the oil transit fee, the demarcation of the borders and the status of citizens living in border areas remain unresolved. as an observer of the 2011 referendum on the partition of sudan, i would like to express my deep regret at the current situation. the conflict has resulted in deaths, sometimes in cruel ways, and persecution, and tens of thousands have been forced to flee their homes. according to the united nations refugee agency, more than 150,000 people are living in refugee camps. the international community, which has been watching the referendum and the creation of the new state, should continue to seek a peaceful solution to the current dispute, in line with the adopted roadmap, and to seek solutions that will convince the governments of both countries to start peaceful negotiations. the european union, which stands guard over the values of peace, democracy and human rights, must make every effort to bring about real peace, not just a peace on paper.
the european union has been involved in the conflict in sudan for many years. it is worth recalling that the union supported the partition of sudan and the creation of south sudan. the eu has spent and is spending hundreds of millions of euros on humanitarian aid. yet the conflict continues, and it is a brutal conflict. it used to be a terrible conflict with hundreds of thousands of victims within one country, but now it's an international conflict. the question therefore arises: should the union continue to be active, but should it also continue to be an independent entity? i think that the union should of course continue to play an active role. but i think that we should put much more emphasis than we have done so far on supporting the un and, above all, on supporting the african union. if the troops are to be appeased, and they should be, it must be primarily troops from african countries. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! coup attempts tend to undermine the development of low-income countries and make life more difficult for their citizens. however, the situation in guinea-bissau is very characteristic, as the coup was carried out just before the second round of the presidential elections, and in the first round the candidate of the ruling party received 49% of the votes. the coup also had a very negative impact on the most important sectors of the economy. the trade in hazelnuts is the most affected, accounting for 80% of guinea-bissau's export value. the kidney bean harvest began in mid-april, the exact time of the assassination. the farmers are offered such low purchase prices that most of them are holding back and waiting for the market conditions to improve, and those who can, are trying to get to senegal to sell their products there. this is important because the kidney disease collection is the lifeblood of thousands of families in guinea-bissau. as a result of the attack, many different institutions are not functioning normally, from banks to various investments that have been started. it is also characteristic that the functions of the provisional authorities are performed by representatives of the opposition at the will of the army. this, according to many observers, suggests that there may have been a collusion between the army and the opposition before the coup, and that is why it will be so difficult to return to democracy.
(microphone off at the beginning of the speech) ...thanks to the ease of energy acquisition. at the same time, the energy and material resources were being depleted. consumption and the well-being of societies have increased dramatically. however, the continued growth of the world population with the current consumption patterns poses many challenges. this is not just about the climate problems we are facing today, but about those whose rational solution, based on resource efficiency and a different consumption model, will allow the world's mixed species to continue to develop harmoniously. there's a trend in the world in the commodity economies to go deeper into the processing of raw materials, to move into higher value-added production. therefore, china prefers to process lanthanum at home, and today's russian slogan "raw materials for modernization" will also be out of date. the relocation of energy-intensive industries will continue to weigh on europe. so what can be done to make better use of the earth's resources - water, forests, soil, and even air? firstly, there is the need to save materials and to innovate in material and technological substitution and recycling, as we have already mentioned. secondly, the use of own resources and their efficient management for the benefit of local communities, which must benefit from their natural resources. thirdly, the creation of economic and fiscal conditions and a protective customs policy in the european union so that the countries of the union can regain their competitiveness. fourthly, the commission should be alerted to the harmful effects of transnational corporations and the economic protectionism of some wto members.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention to the fact that it says that greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by up to 95% compared to 1990 levels. the legitimate demands of rationalising consumption and limiting the use of the earth's resources, including energy, cannot be pursued in isolation from economic and social realities. my country, poland, has suffered enormous sacrifices and costs precisely because of the reduction of co2 emissions. i think we should take this into account in our actions and our work, because the economic crisis we are in requires growth, and growth cannot be achieved in defiance of rational premises and arguments. it also leads to social problems that may prevent them in the future. the pedagogy is that we cannot be naive when the major carbon emitters, the world's major powers, like the united states, china and india, are not following our lead.
a balanced raw materials policy should be based on at least three pillars: efficiency, recycling and the sustainable use of our own resources. the report presented here does not strike that balance, it is skewed in one direction only. it's heavily biased towards efficiency alone. worse, it wants to use tax instruments to shape the eu's raw materials policy. we are proposing not only special taxes on raw materials but also special changes to the vat system. these instruments will obviously hit the competitiveness of our industry. we cannot accept the provocation of the european commission to work on the taxation of raw materials. the same ideological and technological and industrial reality is lacking in the demand for a total ban on landfills. the report is contrary to the findings of the industry committee, the opinions of the european commission and the industry recommendations and will therefore not be supported by our group.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i must point out that many of the provisions introduced have forced me to propose the necessary amendments. we all agree that we need to conserve and use our resources rationally. however, all action must be directed towards the maintenance of industry in europe and its economic development. the development of green public procurement is necessary and requires further work, but in times of crisis it cannot be linked to generating additional administrative costs. the introduction of legal prohibitions on the disposal of waste is acceptable, but with an indication of the possible maximum reuse of the components contained in it that can be used as raw materials. the time of crisis is not a good time to introduce additional financial burdens in the form of an environmental tax. and that's why we have to postpone its introduction until a better time. similar concern is expressed about the proposal to phase out animal protein and thus transform our agriculture into a fruit and vegetable paradise. the introduction of new legislation must not deviate from the real technical and technological possibilities and that is why i consider the provisions on the reduction of waste to almost zero to be an idealistic approach that has no practical application. finally, i would like to say a few words about the introduction of environmental information for mass consumer products. information for the consumer yes, but clear and necessary, not creating information chaos. i think that the report contains a number of very important remarks, but it does not cover all the important issues related to the current crisis in europe. we have to look at what the next jobs will be and what the opportunities will be to create new working conditions for our generations.
mr. chairman, please! our economy is in a constant state of crisis and natural resources are becoming increasingly scarce, so the challenge for the european union now is to ensure access to and uninterrupted supply of the most important resources. it is also time to rethink our habits, for using resources more wisely not only helps to protect the environment but also saves money and reduces costs in industry. it's about doing more with less. it is impossible to continue with our current model of resource management. in view of these changes, improving resource efficiency is a key issue in ensuring growth and jobs in europe. it will create broad economic opportunities and improve productivity, reduce costs and contribute to increased competitiveness. i am pleased that the report focuses on stimulating technological innovation, increasing employment in the fast-growing green energy sector, and maintaining trade within the european union. however, i believe that an ambitious plan is not enough, and i am happy to support mr gerbrandt's view, which is to reduce bureaucracy. i believe that we should not create new legislation but make effective use of existing legislation. it is equally important to set realistic targets for all member states. excessively high standards, which would be impossible for some member states to meet, would deprive the strategy of its viability to the detriment of its primary objective. our future depends on how we use resources now, which is why we need a balanced and thoughtful strategy.
we have seen a number of crises in recent years that have made us aware of the scale of the problems that can arise from the availability of resources and from ensuring their uninterrupted supply. the rapidly rising food prices and the difficulty of accessing rare earth metals are just a few examples of the economic shocks that have hit europe. the problem of resource efficiency is one of the major challenges facing the european union in the near future. it is high time to take the necessary action it should certainly not be in the direction of creating new discussion groups which will not contribute to the achievement of the objective but only to the creation of new unrealized strategies. the current situation calls for concrete initiatives and projects, and i would add more responsible than some of those recommended in the report. the advantage of priority in the rational use of resources not only makes us more independent of external suppliers, but also helps us to maintain our economic position on the global stage.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i welcomed the report, but i would also like to draw attention to a number of important factors which need to be taken into account in the debate on raw materials in the european union. i think the overriding issue is to change the current production model. we should therefore develop three selected areas within its functioning that should be included in the reuse of raw materials, namely food, housing and mobility. within these, the european commission should set up special task forces. it is also important that the european recycling system has a resource use indicator based on four basic indicators such as the soil footprint indicator, the water indicator, the material indicator and the carbon indicator. this would allow for a more harmonised and efficient use of resources. another important issue is to maintain the prices of emission allowances and environmental resources and ecosystem services at levels desired by less developed countries, as too high prices can deprive low-income groups of raw materials. smes are also an important issue, which can raise funds under their research and innovation programme instruments to make rational use of resources, including through research into new substitutes.
ladies and gentlemen! the situation of young people in the european labour market is difficult and dangerous, and none of us is in any doubt about that. the unemployment rate among people under 25 has been rising steadily since 2008 and reached twice the level of unemployment for the whole working age group at the end of 2011. one in five young people in the union cannot find a job, and more than 7.5 million of them are not only not earning but not in education, and in some eu countries the youth unemployment rate has risen to an alarming 50% level. this is not only the result of the economic and financial crisis, but also the consequence of the lack of prospects and opportunities for young people to develop and acquire the basic skills that will allow them to be competitive on the labour market. our education system has been failing for many years and is still based on programs that do not reflect the demands of the labor market in any way. in addition, young people already at the beginning of their independent lives face problems in accessing internships and traineeships, loans or stable jobs that would allow them to develop and invest in their future. this situation puts many member states, and indeed europe as a whole, at risk of a brain drain which could be fatal not only for our economy but also for science and culture. in this context, the initiatives taken by the european commission for young people, such as the 'chances for young people' initiative, are important to us. however, it is important that the many actions and programmes that have been developed recently do not lose sight of the objective of ensuring that young people are employed. in this context, not only structural reforms of labour markets but also social investment in education, training or traineeships can be very helpful. this will equip young people with the basic skills required by labour markets and the tools to adapt proactively and flexibly to changing social and economic conditions. in this context, the rational use of the eu budget - the new financial perspective - but also the effective targeting of the european social fund will be particularly important. commissioner, our youth is the most important investment of our lives. let's take care of her with the utmost care and responsibility!
madam president! we all agree that the biggest problem facing the european union is not the reduction of co2 emissions, it's not greece's problems, but youth unemployment. i agree with the commissioner that it will not disappear overnight, but it also, commissioner, did not come into being overnight. this process has been going on for many years, and i would like to ask you a question: what have we done in that time? i think young people don't wait for us to have a discussion, to say how high unemployment is, because everybody knows that. they're waiting for action, for decisions, and for the effects of those decisions. it shows the impotence of both the european union and the governments to solve this problem, to take quick and effective action. initiatives such as the youth opportunities initiative are very good, but commissioner, how long will it take to implement and how soon will the effects be visible? yesterday we discussed small and medium-sized enterprises. all agreed that their development was the best way to fight unemployment. many people would like to set up micro-enterprises, but they do not have the funds to do so, so i would like to ask what action and how soon will the european commission take?
in writing. when discussing youth employment, one must first of all be aware of the huge differences between member states in terms of unemployment rates in the 15-24 age group. while in greece and spain the rate is over 50%, in germany and austria it is only around 8%, and - which is worth noting - it is almost exactly the same as the unemployment rate for the whole of society. this indicates that youth unemployment in these countries is not more severe than for other age groups, which is somewhat exceptional. young people seeking employment while still in school or immediately after leaving school are not attractive to employers because of their lack of experience, which puts them at a disadvantage in the face of competition from older and naturally more experienced people. there are few young people with a job that matches their skills and education, that is both a form of permanent employment and a decent salary. we should therefore ensure that young people have as much access as possible to a variety of traineeships and placements during their studies, which would facilitate the later transition between education and the labour market. existing programmes such as leonardo da vinci and erasmus for entrepreneurship require not only substantial funding from the eu budget but also promotion in the member states.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the 'youth opportunity' initiative is a concrete response to the phenomenon of youth unemployment, which not only remains high in developed countries but is also steadily increasing. this is not only the result of the crisis and budgetary discipline, but above all of deep structural problems, including inadequate adaptation and lack of flexibility in both the labour market and the education system. for several years now, we have been observing a discrepancy between the financial expectations of young people and their specific skills, experience and qualifications. this initiative, which involves a series of measures to improve the situation of young people in the labour market, should therefore be supported and supported. it is time for real, concrete prevention measures, such as more use of the esf, help in finding a first job abroad through eures, the creation of a well-functioning system of international traineeships for students and internships for young entrepreneurs through ldv and erasmus, and the extension of the european voluntary service. in countries where the education system has been coordinated with industry, for example through continuous vocational training programmes or the introduction of mandatory involvement in community-based institutions, school and university graduates are better placed to find work and the unemployment rate for those under 25 has fallen to a few per cent.
madam president! equal pay for equal work between men and women is a goal that must be achieved at last in order to achieve equal status for men and women in the labour market, to reduce poverty among women of retirement age, to express social justice. the pay gap is even more so when women face the greatest challenges in life - when they are raising young children or approaching retirement. i welcome the fact that mrs bauer's report has brought together good practices which are already being used in some countries and which will be disseminated by including them at european level. the report also contains a list of recommendations to improve legislation on wage inequality. i refer to the clause calling on the european commission to better define indirect and direct discrimination and the pay gap in the revision of the directive. it is also important to call on entrepreneurs to increase transparency in pay, while respecting the rules on personal data protection. it is also important that member states have been required to introduce penalties for employers who do not respect the principle of equal pay in the form of compensation for the discriminated employee, but also in the form of administrative penalties and deprivation of the right to use public funds. i also hope that by 2013 the european commission will justify the poor implementation of the provisions of the gender pay directive and propose concrete actions taking into account the indications of the european parliament.
equal pay for equal work. inequality of pay based on any factor, such as race, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, religion or gender, cannot be tolerated. although women are statistically more qualified because of their higher education, they earn less than men. the higher the rank, the greater the disparity. equal rights and equal pay for women are still fictional. women are discriminated against primarily because they want to have children or have children. in poland, we have one of the worst rates of childcare for young children in europe. but he doesn't invest in day care or preschool. it increases the retirement age of women by 7 years, but it doesn't create new jobs. it's already almost impossible to find work for women over 50. without gender pay equality, longer working hours will exacerbate the disparities between the existential situation of women and men. wage inequality negatively affects women's pensions and contributes to their poverty in old age. as many as 21% of women aged 65+ are at risk of poverty, compared with 16% of men. the report's recommendations are therefore of the utmost importance and their effective implementation is essential if we are to enjoy equal rights for all.
question asked under the 'blue card' procedure i would like to ask whether you think that equality standards and the fight against discrimination should not be introduced in the european union because it is too expensive, both for the state and for companies? so, what? should we maintain wage inequality to improve corporate profits? thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! the european commission is talking about parities in the boards right now. this is good, because there are very few women on the boards, but how can the commission and parliament be considered as credible institutions if we have not been able to cope with this wage gap for several decades. it is very difficult to prepare a new policy when we cannot enforce the implementation of the one we have been talking about for many, many years. i am therefore very pleased that this report emphasises monitoring, cooperation not only at the commission level but above all at the level of countries and representatives for women, gender equality and non-discrimination in individual countries, but also at the level of companies. i think that social control is crucial at this lowest level and hence the involvement of trade unions, which is a new element in this report. it's the unions that should be doing this, so there's no pay discrimination, instead of just getting involved in politics all the time.
in writing. – according to the latest provisional, although incomplete, figures, women across the eu earn on average 16.4% less than men for work of equal value. the gender pay gap varies between 4.4% and 27.6% among eu members, and progress to reducing the disparity is extremely slow. (at eu level, the pay gap fell by only 1.3% between 2006 and 2010.) according to preliminary experts’ studies, the recast directive 2006/54/ec contributed to the improvement of women’s situation at the european labour market, but it has not profoundly changed existing legislation on closing the gender wage disparity in member states. the parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to take more initiatives to tackle these issues, including revision of current legislation, but so far the commission’s actions have not yielded desirable results in this matter. this current report sends another reminder to the commission to reinforce existing legislation. it also calls on the commission to introduce and apply appropriate sanctions on member states if they fail to comply with the required legislation. bridging the gender pay disparity will not only benefit our economy but will also have a great impact on our society, which must value men and women equally.
author. − madam president, first of all i would like to thank all my colleagues who supported this resolution for showing solidarity. this resolution was prompted by the decision of the swiss authorities to re-establish quantitative limitations on the long-term residence permits granted to the citizens of eight member states from eastern and central europe. we are of the opinion that such measures are discriminatory since, according to the commission’s legal service, there is no basis for such a differentiation as the transitional period for the safeguards has run out. we in this house have an allergic reaction to any attempt at differentiating between eu member states, especially if it has no grounding in the legal framework underpinning our relationship. we differ on the interpretation of the safeguards with the swiss authorities, but this situation actually points to the deficiency in our relations, as there is no legal guarantee that mutual legal obligations will be implemented in a uniform manner. we are of the opinion that the labour force coming from the eu has contributed to the growth of the swiss economy, and this is actually confirmed by swiss farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises. if that is indeed the case, there is no justification for using the safeguards, regardless of the interpretation of the protocol. less me stress that we do not want to be paternalistic towards our swiss partners. i was rapporteur on how switzerland and the other eea countries cope with the internal market. we have shown an enormous degree of understanding of the sensitivities of our partners in the swiss confederation and engaged in a very positive dialogue with our friends in the swiss parliament. in the resolution we reiterate certain problems that we have in our relations as regards the provision of services, for example, not because we are upset, but because we are concerned about our relationship with switzerland. smooth, productive and predictable relations between the eu and switzerland that are beneficial for both sides are of the utmost priority to us all.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the agreement on the free movement of persons between the european union and switzerland was intended to guarantee openness and economic exchange. switzerland, outside the community, has been given an excellent opportunity to cooperate with all the member states. the two sides were guided by the common national interest and the good of the citizens. in acceding to the agreement, the swiss authorities were also fully aware that further enlargements of the union would follow, and that the agreement does not allow for any distinction between its citizens. the introduction of a limit on the number of permanent residence permits for nationals of the eight youngest members of the community is all the more surprising as no objections have been voiced in recent years. the authorities of most cantons are also against such a solution, arguing that the labour market is not threatened by immigrants. in my opinion, switzerland's interpretation of the terms of the agreement and the protocol of eight years ago is incorrect. the european union has acceded to them as a whole and should be treated as such. this means that switzerland cannot apply these agreements to individual countries but only to the community as a whole. it cannot therefore block work permits for nationals of the member states selected. in this respect, i welcome the commission's clear negative position on this matter. the reference by the federal council in bern to the transitional provisions of the protocol also raises a number of doubts. the seven-year grace period for the new member states expired a year ago and the swiss authorities had not notified their intention to impose any sanctions. in view of the excellent relations between brussels and warsaw and berne so far, and with a view to their further development in the desired direction, i ask the representatives of the swiss authorities to reconsider their position and the proper application of the agreement. i call on the european institutions to take action to address this problem, and i ask all member states to support our proposal in today's vote. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union is founded on the principle of free movement of persons and equal treatment. the introduction by switzerland of limits on the number of permanent residence permits is a flagrant breach of that principle. we don't want to think that the intentions were bad, but that's the facts. significantly, this is true of european union countries that have experienced isolation and the yoke of communism in the past. that is why this case is a test whether there are two europeans or one, whether we are together or apart. i am confident that the european parliament will give the european commission a strong argument for further work and action with our swiss friends. we do not allow the language of confrontation, we believe that this is a situation that should not happen, and we deeply believe that it will be resolved quickly, because in a free europe this situation should not take place.
mr. chairman, please! as you can see, the discussion about introducing quotas for citizens of certain european union countries to stay in switzerland is very lively. i am pleased that this debate brings together citizens from different countries - meps from the countries that were members, founding members of the european union and countries that have just joined the european union. in this debate, from right to left, from left to right, from all the parties, between which we argue very sharply every day and have very different opinions, this time we all agree and we all strongly support the draft resolution of member trzaskowski and others. and the reason it's gaining so much support today is because we realize that the closer we work together, the more we open up to each other, the more we all gain. the european union is characterised by a win-win formula, where one gains and the other loses. i have the impression that the swiss people are also aware of this. after all, they voted in the referendum for schengen in 2005 and for the free movement of people in 2009. both decisions have gained widespread public support. why should this administrative decision now drive our friends, a friendly and close country switzerland, away from us and prevent the use of win-win? thank you, sir.
in writing. the swiss government's decision to limit the number of permanent residence permits for citizens of eight central and eastern european countries is particularly worrying in the context of the discriminatory treatment faced by citizens of this part of europe, for example in the netherlands. recently, the citizens of the eu member states have been divided into 'better' and 'worse' citizens, which could have very dangerous consequences in the future. citizens of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary represent only a small percentage of the population of european union citizens permanently residing and working in switzerland. it is therefore difficult to understand the swiss government's decision, taken ostensibly to protect the national labour market. furthermore, it is alarming that this decision appears to be illegal under the agreement between switzerland and the community, a restriction on access to the labour market can be introduced only and exclusively for all eu citizens. switzerland shall enjoy the rights conferred by its participation in the european economic area without restriction. switzerland's exports to the eu-10 in 2010 amounted to over eur 4 trillion, equivalent to exports to china. in this situation, we have the right to demand reciprocity from switzerland in economic contacts. we call on the european commission to take urgent action to clarify the situation.
in writing. the decision of the swiss government to reinstate the quantitative limits for certain categories of permanent residence permits issued to citizens of the eight new eu member states the czech republic, estonia, lithuania, latvia, poland, slovenia, slovakia and hungary introduces an unacceptable and unfair discrimination between eu citizens on the basis of their nationality, which is discriminatory and contrary to european values and law. the european parliament, as recently with the pvv website in the netherlands, has always taken a strong stand against breaking the fundamental principles on which the eu is founded one of them is the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality. i therefore fully agree with the assessment of the high representative catherine ashton that this decision violates the agreement on the free movement of persons, which does not allow any distinction to be made between eu citizens. under the agreement, swiss citizens can move freely within the eu, but the same rights must also be guaranteed to all union citizens in switzerland. switzerland has an agreement with the union and should now comply with it. if the swiss government deems it necessary, it can impose quotas, but they must apply to all eu citizens without exception, because there are no first and second class citizens in the eu, and all eu citizens should be treated equally.
in writing. i am concerned that in the last few months we have once again been speaking out on a matter as fundamental as freedom of movement and residence, especially as this discussion is taking place in the context of highly developed countries with a deep democratic tradition. the decision by switzerland to temporarily introduce quotas for work permits for workers from selected eu member states is simply blatantly inconsistent with the existing agreements between the eu and the swiss confederation. as enshrined in article 9 teu, eu citizenship constitutes the legal link linking any natural person who holds the nationality of a member state to the european union. it gives rise to both obligations and rights, the most important of which is the free movement of persons. european citizenship is based on the principle of equal treatment of all citizens, irrespective of nationality. the resolution voted today in a constructive way, opening the way for discussion and cooperation, reflects our view of the decision taken by the national council of the swiss confederation. the most important thing to remember is that the european union was created for the good of its citizens. their freedom and liberty are therefore one of the main elements of the work that the institutions of the european union should be concerned with. we, as members of the european parliament, therefore have a duty to express our disapproval of attempts to introduce mechanisms which discriminate against european union citizens.
i supported this report because it is important to oppose with all our might what is happening in ukraine and the government's attitude towards mrs tymoshenko. but it should also be mentioned that there would not be such a behavior and such a strong position of the ukrainian government if it were not for russian support, and above all russian money, which supports this regime, you can say, and this behavior. a few months ago we heard here in the european parliament that it was russian money that was supposed to save the european union from the crisis. i am not drawing any negative conclusions about the russian intentions, but i would like to tell everyone that such an approach should not be considered at all. russia's approach to the european union in particular is negative.
in writing. − the programme of macro-financial assistance to third countries experiencing temporary balance of payments difficulties, which has been in place for over two decades, is an excellent element in the development of mutual relations. in particular, as regards neighbouring countries, this aid has made a valuable contribution to macroeconomic stability. the lisbon treaty has made this easier and i am glad that countries like ukraine and moldova have benefited from this. i hope georgia will benefit as well. i agree with the need to present the appropriate criteria for the selection of beneficiaries. as the programme aims at stabilisation in the immediate neighbourhood of the community and 'europeanisation', the main beneficiaries should be the aspiring member states. the introduction of a faster and more efficient way of deciding on aid with a more precise geographical coverage will allow for much more effective implementation of neighbourhood policy and, in some cases, perhaps a leading role in macro-financial assistance. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. - like the ecr group, i support the main points of mr kazak's report, which reaffirms the ep's position on previous issues concerning macro-financial assistance to individual third countries. it is necessary to set out clear preconditions for the granting of exceptional financial assistance, in particular to improve the transparency of the use of funds (loan, grant or combination thereof) and to formalise the political assessment of the status of beneficiaries by the commission in cooperation with the eeas, in order to enhance the democratic effectiveness of the eu macro-financial assistance and to improve the democratic oversight of that assistance.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? in a few days, ukraine, along with poland, will become the center of europe for the euro 2012 tournament. i would love to have a time when we can focus exclusively on football. this event is a great opportunity to promote both countries and for ukraine it will mean a closer relationship with europe. the case of yulia tymoshenko is an understandable outrage, reflecting the pro-european aspirations of kiev. the reports of improper, even brutal treatment of the former prime minister, have saddened me. i have been trying for many years to play the role of advocate for ukraine in the european parliament. the council has already refused to ratify the association treaty on this issue. i hope that the prime minister's appeal will be conducted in a fair and transparent manner, based on democratic standards. i believe that strong ties with europe are still a priority for the ukrainian authorities and that they do not intend to drift towards belarus. i support the resolution.
in writing. − i welcome the ep’s resolution on the case of yulia tymoshenko because i believe that the proper place for the leader of the opposition is not in jail, but in the verkhovna rada. when we address ukraine within the eu, we need to be very careful to differentiate between the people of ukraine and the ukrainian authorities. our critical assessment of the ongoing situation is not aimed at the ukrainian people. nor would i call the current government our sole ‘target’ of criticism. the system itself is largely at fault – partly as a result of years of failure and negligence to implement reforms. but today, selective justice is indeed at the forefront of ukraine’s troubles. we need to uphold our cooperation, but continue to voice concerns. unfortunately, the biggest casualty of what is taking place has been ukraine’s image.
in writing. − the resolution on the situation in ukraine raises an important issue of the need for further reform in ukraine. it was stressed that future elections must be free, fair and transparent, and that this will be possible, inter alia, by allowing the opposition leaders to participate. noting the difficult situation of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko, it was stressed that legislative reform is necessary. at the same time, however, the resolution notes that despite the declarations of some politicians about not participating in the euro 2012 celebrations in ukraine, there was no call for a boycott of the championship. i consider this to be particularly important. the ukrainian society should have the possibility of integration into the union, which is at the heart of the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − recent political developments in ukraine may be of concern, especially to those who care about ukraine's european future. the european parliament has an important role to play in ensuring that democratic standards are maintained in cooperation with the european union. it is right that attention should be drawn to the situation of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko. however, it is important to choose appropriate means of pressure on ukraine. i'm consistently opposed to mixing politics with sports. this was my position when the demand was raised to take the ice hockey world championship in belarus in 2012. i was very concerned to hear statements from important eu politicians calling for a political boycott of euro 2012. the polish delegation in the socialists and democrats (s&d) group has appealed to all meps to attend euro 2012 in poland and ukraine and this appeal is maintained in the current circumstances. boycotting euro 2012 will have the opposite effect. today, more than the boycott of euro 2012, ukrainian society needs european openness and people-to-people contacts. a boycott of euro 2012 could have the unintended effect of increasing anti-european sentiment. therefore, i welcome the silencing of calls for a boycott of euro 2012 as a sign of political wisdom.
in writing. - the case of yulia tymoshenko is electrifying our relations with ukraine. her confinement and treatment is in violation of accepted standards of treatment for prisoners. in the case of yulia tymoshenko, we should demand that meps not only be allowed to visit but also to actively participate in the processes of the former prime minister. we must negotiate delicately because we are encroaching on a very thin thread of sovereignty of a non-eu state, the freedom to make and enforce laws. i also strongly disagree with the attempts to boycott euro 2012 matches as a tool to pressure the authorities in kiev.
in writing. - we have insufficient resources in the european union to meet our internal consumption needs. the commission has therefore decided to propose a new, more economical model of consumption, and to develop a new approach to economic instruments. the idea is to remove the environmental tax from labour and shift this burden onto raw materials, energy and materials. this will be a good step towards more efficient use of resources. further fiscal reforms and cooperation in the eu single market are needed to increase european competition on a global scale. investment in the eu that is essential for growth should take this into account. i therefore voted in favour of this own-initiative ep project, hoping for a future legislative solution that takes account of the pro-innovation market philosophy in europe.
in writing. −last autumn, the european commission adopted an action plan for a resource efficient europe, setting out the directions and initiatives to ensure that the union can grow economically in a sustainable way while respecting the environment. ensuring biodiversity and healthy ecosystems for the citizens of our continent is a major challenge, requiring concrete, coordinated action from a wide range of policies (such as research, production and consumption, transport and construction) already now. of course, more efficient use of raw materials proper management of natural resources and efficient recycling of secondary raw materials are also necessary. i also agree with the rapporteur that close cooperation with the public and private sectors is a key element in creating the right strategy, and that action at local level is as important as the european level in this regard.
in writing. - i object to the text in which parliament calls on the commission to present proposals by 2014 to introduce a general ban on landfilling at european level. i am also not in favour of calling on member states to introduce an environmental tax. i am in favour of efficient use of secondary raw materials and the creation of appropriate incentives to prevent waste. however, for some member states such as poland the prohibitions, environmental taxes and other constraints will hit the average taxpayer the hardest. i feel that this fact was not taken into account in mr gerbrandt's report.
in writing. − the report on a resource-efficient europe highlights many of the valuable challenges facing the european union today. it is a european strategy for future growth that has an international dimension, and it points to biodiversity, natural capital and ecosystem services. today, not only the european but also the global economy is affected by the economic crisis, but i believe that we should look to the future and develop new programmes and use innovative measures that will ensure economic growth and progress. europe needs ambitious plans that take account of the pace of change and emphasise cooperation with member states, regional authorities and local authorities, which is why i voted in favour of the gerben-jan gerbrandy report.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution, as did the ecr group. i disagree with the statement that 'the youth guarantee must be legally enforceable in order to actually improve the situation of young people who are not in employment, education or training'. we need to find solutions to overcome the problem of youth unemployment in the eu, but i do not think that punishing member states is the right solution.
in writing. − statistics show that there are about 7.5 million young people aged 15-24 in the european union who are not in employment and not in education. in some european countries, youth unemployment is as high as 50%. there is no doubt that the economic crisis is one of the reasons for these statistics. the problem is obvious, and that is why i think we need to take swift and effective action that will point to new tools and opportunities for young people, especially now, in such a mobile, changing society. concrete structural reforms are needed to create new jobs. we should use innovation, european funds, cross-border programmes and improve education systems. the european social fund is one of the most important instruments that will allow the creation of new programmes for young people and will enable them to enter the labour market. that's why i voted for the youth opportunity initiative.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the initiative "opportunities for the youth". i believe that three issues are particularly important: the situation of young mothers, the linking of training to labour market requirements and support from the european social fund. the largest employment gap between women and men is between 25 and 35 years of age. employers do not want to hire young women because they fear that they may become pregnant and become a burden (less availability, extra benefits). it is therefore very important that countries implement policies to make it easier for women to reconcile family and work life, so that potential employers are not afraid to hire young women and they do not have a "glass ceiling". member states should offer training to enable working women to work at home. it is necessary to provide access to childcare (nursery, kindergarten). in line with the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, member states need to better adapt vocational training to labour market needs. young people must be trained for the future, i.e. for the requirements of the labour market. i call on the commission and the member states to make the best use of the structural funds, including the european social fund (esf), to implement specific programmes to combat unemployment among women. the esf has a further eur 82 billion to be made available until 2013. increasing youth employment should be a priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it represents an important voice for the european parliament in the debate on how to combat youth unemployment. a high-quality youth policy, in line with the europe 2020 objectives, should be a priority of the national reform plans. i therefore join the call to member states to focus on developing effective, long-term strategies to align education systems with current labour market requirements. the 'youth opportunities' initiative is a positive example of eu action to prevent early school leaving and to promote vocational skills. the union must, however, be more ambitious in its actions. in order to support more initiatives under the new financial perspective 2014-2020, stronger financial support should be allocated to combat youth unemployment. it is worthwhile for the commission to allocate the unspent funds under the 2007-13 multiannual financial framework to youth programmes and support for professional mobility.
in writing. − the results of the study show that the average gender pay gap in eu countries is around 16% to the detriment of women and is decreasing at an exceptionally low rate. this condition is made up of many factors, such as cultural background, worldview, economic background, and so on. the complexity of the problem and its multiple origins make it significantly more difficult to combat discriminatory practices in the form of lower pay for the same work done by women. however, in the light of the eu directives and resolutions calling for equal treatment for both sexes, including in terms of pay, i believe that any action to increase compliance with these acts should be intensified. this can be achieved, inter alia, by introducing pay audits at workplaces and publishing their reports. the role of equality promotion and monitoring bodies should also be strengthened to provide information and consultation support to victims of discriminatory practices by employers. i also consider the issue of the dissemination of the issue to be particularly important, as it is being pushed into the background of the public debate, which unfairly diminishes its importance and indirectly contributes to the stagnation in the field of improving the situation of women in the labour market.
in writing. - like my group, i abstained on the report by mrs bauer. while the statistics are true and there is no doubt that wage discrimination still exists, i am not in favour of the idea that employment legislation covering wages should be set at eu level, as should social security matters. i think these are matters which should be decided by the individual member states. this does not change the fact that the statistics on the gender pay gap are alarming: within the eu, the gaps range from 1.9% to 27.6%.
in writing. - i voted for mrs bauer's report today. once again, since 2008, when the european commission launched an information campaign on the gender pay gap in several eu countries, entitled 'ending the gender pay gap', we have the opportunity to read a report on the subject. once again, we can also lament the inequalities in the labour market. the existence of a pay gap between men and women for the same work is a fact. it is worth mentioning that women's wages are on average 16.4% lower than men's wages across europe. in some countries, the gender pay gap is even wider. this disparity has a significant impact on career earnings and women's pensions. lower wages mean lower pensions and increase the risk of poverty for older women. it is good that the european parliament considers the elimination of the gender pay gap as a political priority.
in writing. - it would seem that there should no longer be any problems in europe with equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value. but the facts are different. in the european union, the average female wage is 16.4% lower than that of men. the problem is that the report of the commission on women's rights and equality acknowledges these unfortunate facts without presenting any concrete proposals to change the situation. i think it would be particularly important to change the working conditions of those women who have chosen to become mothers. their working conditions and working hours should be much more flexible and the principle of equal pay for men and women doing the same work should be strictly respected. such a policy is not only in the interest of women but also reflects the principle of justice and would, above all, have an impact on the increase in the birth rate in europe and the rapid ageing of our continent.
in writing. - i consider the swiss decision to be discriminatory and illegal. the reintroduction of quantitative restrictions on long-term residence permits for eu citizens who are nationals of one of the eight member states that joined the eu in 2004 (which limits the free movement of persons provided for in the 1999 eu agreement) has no legal basis. the safeguard clause in article 10 of the 1999 agreement, to which the swiss authorities refer, does not provide for any distinction on grounds of nationality. the swiss authorities should withdraw the application of the safeguard clause immediately.
in writing. - the resolution shows that the ep is able to take a very consistent position in situations where eu citizens are discriminated against, including poles. our aim is to send a signal that we do not accept their unequal treatment by third countries.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on venezuela.
mr. chairman, please! this debate has stirred up a lot of emotions. i think there is no need to worry that with this resolution we are doing something against the sovereignty of venezuela. it is the right of the european parliament to express its views on this matter. we should work to strengthen regional human rights organisations, as they contribute to improving the situation in this area. if a large and important country like venezuela intends to withdraw from the organization, to worsen the conditions under which it operates, parliament has the right to express its critical position on the matter. the venezuelan sovereignty is not affected by this, which is why i will support the motion for a resolution tabled by the ppe, alde and ecr groups.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on azerbaijansee minutes..
i support the motion. we are very interested in azerbaijan, a country with a very long and beautiful history, which is trying in many areas to join the family of european nations, which is expressed by azerbaijan's participation in european sports competitions, as well as in this very important event, which is the eurovision song contest... but if azerbaijan wants to link its future with europe, it should strive for european standards of human rights. unfortunately, it's very bad and it's getting worse. this is a good moment to express our opinion on this issue and send a strong message to the azerbaijani authorities, at a time when the eyes of europe are on this country. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the statement is simple: in the past twenty years, since azerbaijan regained its independence, we have witnessed extraordinary economic development and this country is considered one of the most dynamically developing countries in the world. unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the course of the democratization process in azerbaijan, because behind this great economy and great economy, there are still some unfortunate practices that leave much to be desired, especially when it comes to freedom of speech. when we give examples of what is wrong in azerbaijan, we must always say that unfortunately independent media is not in the right position, that journalists who allow themselves to criticize the lower or higher authorities are immediately prosecuted. i would like to mention again the example of ejnul fatullayev, who was sentenced to a total of eight years in prison for publishing two articles in the local press. these are things that are absolutely unacceptable. i only regret that the fair criticism we are making today was not properly voiced at the eastern partnership summit in baku in april this year. thank you, sir.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolution on the situation of north korean refugees see minutes..
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my group of socialists and democrats have prepared a resolution which is very balanced and at the same time expresses great concern for the people of north korea and the refugees from that country. in view of the human rights violations by the north korean authorities, it is necessary to draw attention to the inadmissibility of torture, forced labour, the death penalty and public executions. the north korean authorities should be called upon to stop these human rights abuses. at the same time, we must not tolerate the mistreatment of refugees in the places they have gone. it is absolutely essential that food and humanitarian aid be provided to all the inhabitants. the commission should continue to support ngos that assist north korea. at the same time, the distribution of food and humanitarian aid must be strictly monitored to ensure that it is transparent and reaches those most in need. sanctions on the north korean regime must not target the korean people or refugees. of course, you may wonder if now is the best time to make such a resolution. but it is worth remembering that some say that there is never a good time to fight for human rights, including the rights of refugees, while others say that there is always a good time to fight for human rights. and we are the ones who say that you should always fight for human rights, you should always stand up for those whose rights are being violated.
(the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8)). mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in answer to the question, i would like to say that we believe that our resolution is more balanced and therefore can have a better effect than resolutions which are more offensive. thank you, sir.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. despite repeated appeals from the international community, china continues to treat north koreans as people fleeing poverty rather than political refugees. if caught by chinese police, the fugitives are sent back to north korea, where they face imprisonment and death. it is widely known that this repatriation agreement is a serious violation of human rights and is contrary to china's obligations under international law. i believe that the international community cannot remain indifferent to the practices of the chinese government. in addition to the continuous appeals to the authorities of the republic of china, member states should focus on developing a systematic approach to the organisation of european and international protection for north korean defectors and support civil society organisations assisting north korean refugees.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
and so we close the vote.
- i call a recess to the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.40 p.m.)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you very much, commissioner, for presenting what happened last year. indeed, we have much to rejoice and to commend the commission for. however, i would remind you that last year our house voted in favour of a resolution on trade relations with japan. in this resolution we expressed not so much opposition as concern. we asked a few questions that we'd like to have answered. the scoping exercise began in june last year and has been ongoing throughout the year. they were carried out in a very efficient, it seemed, way and two weeks ago we got a report summarising this work. unfortunately, the questions we asked last year were not answered. the doubts we raised in the previous resolution have not been resolved, particularly the guidelines on the elimination of non-tariff barriers and, for example, the scope of public procurement for railways. there's a lot more to this, and i could go into more detail, but that's not the point. i think that the issues we raised then should be raised again. the process of opening negotiations is under way and this is very positive and i think that our house should join in this process. the european parliament should help, but also clarify the expectations of our citizens. that is why we are proposing today that rule 90 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure should apply. we would ask the council to temporarily withhold authorisation to open negotiations until the international trade commission has issued a report on the matter. we don't want to stop these negotiations, we're not against them. we're all for it. we are, however, opposed to the fact that we have not received answers to the questions we raised in the previous resolution. i hope that after the work of the committee on international trade we will get a broader response from the commission and i will be all the more happy when we can support the commission and support the council in these negotiations, because i believe that japan is a good and lasting partner and we should support the further development of these relations. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answering the question posed by the raising of the blue card thank you very much for this question. we can now continue the debate in a purely academic manner. if the european parliament is not to take part in these negotiations, why do our rules of procedure allow us to take the steps i mentioned in my speech? if we have the right to raise doubts and ask the council to suspend the negotiating mandate, what is the point? let's get rid of it. i think that if the rules of procedure clearly state that we can take part in the negotiations, the more we should take part in them, the more our voice should be heard and the more we should pay attention to it. otherwise, it's a purely academic debate, and i don't think that's what this is all about.
mr. chairman, please! i think it is good that we are raising the issue of economic cooperation with japan, because our economies are largely complementary, but at the same time both japan and the european union have reached a fairly high level of development on their own and should look together for ways to open up new opportunities. i think that in what commissioner de gucht said, we can note three important elements. firstly, balanced conditions for both sides, i.e. both restrictive duties and restrictions on access to the internal market. secondly, certain priorities that the commissioner has spoken about, namely the foodstuffs market, the car market, industrial products. nevertheless, given all the experience we have had, we need time to give a mandate and i think bernd lange is right when he suggests that we should return to the issue of mandates in september.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr harbour! i have one question that was actually asked of me. do you think that our house should be completely excluded from these negotiations and from such very important talks? shouldn't we have something to say here? if so, then we have nothing to talk about.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i am glad that this debate on social consultation has finally taken place and what you are saying sounds very similar to the answer that my colleague mrs sehnalová received to the question to the president of the european commission, mr barroso, on social consultation and the fact that the questions are asked in very few languages. and the answer was that we support multilingualism, but only to the extent that we have the resources to do so. this answer is completely out of the question, as is what you say that the most important thing for us is that documents be translated into different languages, but multilingualism is very expensive. what is more expensive and more important than getting citizens involved in eu affairs? we have said in many documents that european citizens do not feel that they own the european union, and that is why they do not participate in its construction. when i studied the public consultations carried out by the european commission (we did this together with ms sehnelová we are both members of the imco committee), dg markt (directorate-general for internal market) conducted 26 consultations last year, of which only 4 were conducted in all languages, 18 of which were conducted in english only. there were very few answers. a key question, for example, on the recognition of professional qualifications across the european union, was answered by just over 300 respondents. but there are 500 million of us. i think that the questions that the european commission is sending to the citizens are not reaching them. i'm working on a report on alternative dispute resolution. i decided (only in poland and only me) to hold a public consultation on this subject. i got 425 responses in a few weeks. the european commission has held consultations on the same subject throughout the european union and received 234 replies. this is a very bad reflection of the consultations carried out by the commission. i spent almost no money on that consult. i used social media -- facebook and twitter. i wanted to ask if the european commission has drawn any conclusions? what has it done since the krakow declaration last year, which stated (the attendance at the single market forum was almost 1,500): consultations should be conducted more proactively, organised jointly with stakeholders at national and local level, as well as with the participation of ngos, trade unions, media representatives and other intermediaries. they should be organised in all national languages and understandable to the average citizen. citizens should know that their views are taken into account and that decisions resulting from consultation must be fully justified. what has the european commission done in the past year?
madam president! the diversification of energy suppliers is essential for poland and europe. while we are committed to an independent energy policy, some eu countries are moving in the opposite direction. the statistics are clear. russia remains the largest supplier of gas and oil, while the union's dependence on imported energy resources could reach 67% in 2030, according to the international energy agency. therefore, shale gas is a great opportunity for europe and poland. preliminary estimates indicate that its reserves are high. unfortunately, the debate on the merits of this issue is accompanied by accusations of environmental degradation. in response, experts cite the evidence of advanced technology and stricter environmental regulations. this transmission is compromised. so i ask you, what groups of interests are interested in pushing the myth? parliament should take a clear position on shale gas quickly, giving countries a chance to use the assets they have.
in writing. development cooperation with latin america should remain at the heart of our concerns. although the countries of the region have achieved successes in the fight against poverty and other issues, and have recorded average gdp growth in 2011, their situation is still far from satisfactory. the main objectives of the cooperation, which should be continued, are to support latin american countries in tackling poverty and to promote sustainable socioeconomic development. although the national economies of these countries were less affected by the crisis, 180 million people still live below the poverty line. in addition, social inequality and poor governance threaten the development process of these countries. our support is important because middle-income latin american countries are driving regional integration, which also results in better economic and social conditions for lower-income countries in the same region. the eu and latin america base their partnership on respect for shared values and fundamental freedoms, and as a consequence the obligation to respect human rights has become a key for countries in the region, and the eu's withdrawal from this partnership could lead to an increase in human rights violations. when establishing a new cooperation strategy, we should take into account the respective needs and priorities of each country.
mr. chairman, please! the importance of volunteering, both for the functioning of modern states and for the functioning of civil society, cannot be overstated. the fact that this document emphasises the importance of volunteering for the functioning of societies and countries is very important for me personally, but also for my political group. in appreciation of the effort that marco scurria has put into this document and in appreciation of the nature of volunteering, my political group will have to abstain, because there are passages in it that threaten, above all, to increase the cost of running these programmes and the idea we are talking about here. and mrs. harkin mentioned it in her speech. there are a few other things that are there, and that's why, in appreciating the importance of volunteering, we're holding off on this vote, even though we believe that the idea itself is very important.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mr scurria raises the very important issue of volunteering. due to the nature of this work, it is often treated as a less valuable job and issues related to the regulation of volunteers' rights remain unresolved. i believe that in times of economic crisis, volunteering, which is a cornerstone of democracy and an expression of solidarity, should be given special attention and promoted also in non-eu countries. i think that the first step should be to regulate the unclear legal framework and to remove unnecessary administrative barriers. this is because bureaucratic obstacles often prevent volunteers from doing their work, and ultimately many of them feel discouraged. i think that the european football championship, which is taking place in poland and ukraine, is a great example of how much we need volunteers and how much they are useful to us.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. cross-border cooperation is of paramount importance in the context of the european neighbourhood policy. volunteering contributes to the europe 2020 growth strategy and in particular to the 2020 employment target in the eu. cross-border volunteering promotes the acquisition of new skills and the adaptation to changes in the labour market. eu funds are often an important instrument, and can be used with programmes promoting new technologies and innovation, or with programmes relating to culture and education. i personally think we should also pay attention to the eastern partnership countries in promoting volunteering activities, volunteering must reach young people for example by opening up erasmus for eastern europe. erasmus enables the movement of some 200 000 students from 33 countries each year. currently, students from eastern partnership countries have limited opportunities to participate in student exchanges, and it is mainly students who are volunteers.
i'm closing this discussion on that point. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 june 2012 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mrs edit herczog, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on energy policy cooperation with non-eu partners: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supplies (2012/2029(ini)) (a7-0168/2012).
mr. chairman, please! one of the european union's major problems is its energy dependence on non-european countries. unfortunately, contrary to popular myth, green energy is not the answer. this problem requires close cooperation and a multiannual financial framework similar to those we are seeing with the funds. the report in question accurately defines and describes the main objectives and challenges facing the union today in building energy independence. i would like to draw particular attention to two aspects: firstly, the development of energy cooperation within the european union, in particular energy diplomacy. its absence was evident in the winning of support for the trans-caspian pipeline. second question there is also a need to support on a sustainable basis infrastructure projects that are key to the eu's energy sector, including pipelines, interconnectors, underground storage and gas ports. and i'm going to highlight two projects on this list: the nabucco pipeline and the sadly forgotten sarmacja pipeline. i believe that stable funding and political support for these two transmission lines would provide cheap and secure energy for the community.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am replacing my colleague günther oettinger. i can assure you that the secure and steady flow of energy at competitive prices is, for all of us, a fundamental necessity for the eu, but also a major challenge. we have made progress in strengthening our policies within the eu. at the same time, a stronger and more assertive external energy policy reflecting the full strength of the eu on the global scene is equally necessary to achieve our energy objectives. a common regulatory framework in the eu has important consequences for our external partners. we need to ensure that internal market principles are respected and that eu energy security is promoted in a coherent way. despite the repeated calls for europe to speak with a common voice, including from the european parliament, we have not yet managed to reap the benefits of acting as one block. in external relations, national objectives too often prevail, without consideration for the common eu objectives. yet past experiences clearly show that, together, member states can achieve much greater results than on their own. the proposals made by the commission last september represent an important step in our efforts to develop a common voice and also respond to the request of the european council of 4 february 2011. the commission welcomes the fact that the report recognises the importance of the external energy policy for the achievement of the eu energy objectives and stresses the need to promote regulatory convergence, diversification of supply and strengthened cooperation on sustainable energy policies. we also share the view expressed in the report that coherence and coordination on external energy activities needs to be improved at eu level, including on the energy agreements with third countries. without coordinated action, we will not be able to reap the benefits of a single european energy market of 500 million consumers and safeguard the security of supply for our citizens. only a coherent position will allow europe to influence the global agenda on energy in a way commensurate with its weight and role. such coordination can be strengthened, particularly through setting up an information exchange on intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy. it will therefore be important to reach an agreement on this mechanism between the council and parliament. while the presidency compromise proposal on the mechanism is definitely below the ambition of the commission’s initial text – we would of course have liked to see a stronger approach – it is a first step in improving transparency on such agreements. the mandatory submission of existing igas having an impact on the internal market for energy, the confirmation that the commission has the possibility to participate upon request in negotiations as an observer and to provide advice, as well as the possibility of performing, upon request, ex-ante compatibility checks of negotiated agreements with eu legislation, are all likely to further compliance and consistency with internal market rules, legal certainty for investors and, not least, solidarity among member states. as i said, this is a first set of steps, on which the union must build in the future. another element i would like to emphasise is that the eu partnerships with suppliers, transit countries and consumers should reflect a strategic and comprehensive approach. we should avoid supply-only or one-issue relationships with our partners. the eu’s external relations in the energy field should go beyond efforts to ensure the steady flow of energy, but also address sustainable energy, research and innovation, stable and transparent energy markets, international standards for key technologies and products, and energy efficiency. this is important because of the role that energy plays in the overall political and economic relations with many of our partner countries, and because of the transformations we have seen in the energy field. i thank parliament for addressing this in the report. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament, in particular the committee on industry, research and energy and its rapporteur edit herczog, for its supportive contribution in this policy area. the report discussed today contains many important points, which the commission will take into due consideration when further developing the external energy policy and implementing its concrete activities. with the great effort by ms herczog and the shadow rapporteurs we have the opportunity to go a step forward. we look forward to parliament’s continued support in our effort to develop a true external eu energy policy and to the continued discussion on the specific external energy activities.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank mrs herczog very much for, in my view, a fully complementary approach to the subject and for producing a report of such a balanced nature. i believe that the consolidated actions of the european commission in the report will ensure the building of a strong eu energy market by developing the links between the european energy network and creating a wider regulatory area in the countries neighbouring the union. the rapporteur also rightly emphasised the commission's commitment to accelerating the diversification of suppliers, their routes and the sources of energy supply to the eu. i am convinced that there is a continuing need to expand cooperation by building new interconnections linking european energy networks with the infrastructure of neighbouring countries, as well as by creating a wider regulatory area. the development of information exchange tools to strengthen partnerships with suppliers in third countries is also an essential element for maintaining the stability of the energy system.
in writing. the report in question leaves no doubt eu decision-makers have done everything to increase energy prices. contrary to popular opinion, citizens have been fooled by the slogans of the green revolution, the myths of a zero-emission economy and cheap energy. it was believed that increasing green energy production by 20% in a short time and increasing energy efficiency would allow us to reduce our bills and achieve energy independence. that was a mistake. a mistake for which the citizens of the european community are now paying the price. according to eurostat, over the last two years, household energy prices have risen by an average of 6.3% and gas prices by 12.3%. at the same time, our dependence on foreign suppliers has increased, supplying over 53% of our raw materials. in our geopolitical situation, the lack of diversification of supply and the monopolistic position of russia are particularly dangerous. unfortunately, we have brought this on ourselves, and for over two years we have been unable to make a decision on the construction of the nabucco pipeline project, which is the most important for our energy security. the most important decision on the financing of this project is being delayed. the european commission and the council do not show the necessary commitment, becoming merely passive participants. i am glad that the report includes the idea of better cooperation with the united states. the possibility of cooperation in shale gas extraction is particularly interesting, and i hope that the union will support this as an alternative to the lack of diversification in the supply of energy resources.
in writing. the council's decision to change the legal basis for decisions temporarily restricting the freedom of movement of persons and thereby limiting the ep's role in adopting them is a simple breach of the treaties which should end up in the european court of justice. this decision is a threat not only to the institutional order of the eu, but above all to one of the greatest achievements of integration, which is the free movement of eu citizens across its territory.
mr. chairman, please! the global crisis, which has been affecting the world economy for more than three years, is unfortunately having the most negative impact on the european economy. it has seriously undermined the foundations of economic growth and financial stability. as we all know, the consequences of excessive debt can be dramatic, not just for one country, but for the entire region, this time the euro area. i think that we should reflect and honestly consider whether the very existence of the euro area is at stake, and not just its reputation. the union was not prepared for the dark scenario that surprised them. she didn't have the tools. will that change now that we've adopted the six-pack and supplemented it with a two-pack? we'll see about that. i think it's obvious that if you start building a house from the roof, instead of choosing a solid ground and building a foundation, you can't expect good results. the rapporteur supports the commission's proposal to strengthen surveillance in order to take preventive action at an early stage, rather than corrective action when it is too late. is that enough? we'll see, but i dare not doubt it.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate is really another debate and another step back towards the implementation of the stability and growth pact. it's always a difficult debate in the european parliament. those of you who remember the six-pack debate, and we all do, know how difficult it was to reach agreement on this. today we are talking about increased surveillance of the countries to which we are finally going to give aid (or are actually giving aid) and monitoring of the budgetary assumptions of the member states. theoretically, everyone seems to agree with the commission's assumptions that those who receive aid should be monitored and supervised, but the debate is on what the criteria should be - should we monitor something that is a strict criterion that comes down to the principles of the stability and growth pact, or should we liberalise these criteria? i would remind you that we are talking about reducing the debt of the euro area member states, not about increasing it. i have the impression from this debate that some people are calling for us to give aid and control it, but not to create criteria for it to have a real effect. let me remind you that these goals have not changed, they have been there for a long time. it's a question of the level of their implementation, the degree of their implementation. that goal is called 3% and it will never change, but it's not a new goal either. it's a goal we've had for a long time, one we haven't used. the last thing is the debt amortisation fund. we've often pointed out in this room that certain banking tricks cause money to be sold that doesn't exist. i'm afraid the idea of this fund is a trick, it reminds me of a trick, which comes down to showing that there is no debt, which there really is.
in writing. the solutions proposed today in the mff resolution are an important step in the fight against the crisis in europe. the need to cut spending is a key issue for eu budgets today. the mechanisms of the so-called 'two-pack' putting budgets under the control of the commission in cooperation with national parliaments will facilitate their consolidation and allow special surveillance of countries with excessive budget deficits. this strengthens the influence of the eu institutions on the budgetary policies of the member states without compromising democratic procedures. the project also includes measures to stimulate economic growth. savings alone cannot bring the economy back on track. moreover, it is primarily affecting ordinary citizens. the project commits the commission and the state to adopt solutions that would not kill economic growth or investment, especially in education and health. in the near future, we must also take action to increase the eu budget. the revenues from, for example, eurobonds or the financial transaction tax will be used for investment and job creation. sustainable growth and budgetary discipline are possible, as the example of poland shows. thanks to budgetary restrictions that were introduced into the constitution in 1997, the country can boast even today of almost 4% gdp growth. the mff resolution will be the beginning of a new quality in eu public finance.
mr. chairman, please! although latin america has not been hit as hard by the economic crisis as other regions of the world and is likely to grow by 4.5% this year, it still has significant wealth disparities and almost 200 million people live below the poverty line. the community remains the main investor and second largest trading partner in the region after the united states. it is therefore in our direct interest to promote its development. the need to strengthen the union's presence in the region as a guarantor of a sound way out of the crisis seems justified. cooperation and support for middle-income countries will help them develop their capacity to fight poverty and to develop at regional level. trade is crucial to the prosperity of both continents. the fight against organised crime is also a matter of mutual interest. i support the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i endorsed that report. the european union and latin america are forming a strategic partnership. this partnership should also be based on respect for common values. in our report we point out that one of the main objectives of the european union's external action is to strengthen the democratic order and human rights. i would like to say that it is good that our report calls for the protection of victims of crime in latin america to be one of the priorities. i want to ask you a question. what about a situation where the perpetrator of these crimes is the state apparatus? i am referring to the criminal regime of fidel castro in cuba, which persecutes its own citizens and they (collectively) are the victims of one great criminal, the communist regime in cuba. i endorsed that report.
mr. chairman, please! volunteering is one of the most important ways in which citizens can participate in society. through volunteering we give citizens the opportunity - citizens give themselves the opportunity - to help, to create a reality not necessarily through strict political involvement. i would like to take this opportunity to say that we are talking about volunteering today, and i would like to pay tribute to the thousands of volunteers who are working today in my country and in ukraine to make the 2012 european championship the best it can be. i wanted to thank them for that. this is a beautiful example of volunteerism.
mr. chairman, please! modern technology is playing an increasingly pervasive role in our daily lives. the internet is used to carry out many essential activities in a wide range of fields, from communications and banking to work, culture and entertainment. network security is therefore slowly becoming the top priority in security in general. as the case of estonia shows, a cyberattack can cripple a country as effectively as a military attack or a disaster. it should also be borne in mind that disruptions to the functioning of the internet can lead to significant losses and security risks, which are not without impact on the situation of european citizens and businesses. i voted for the report. taking the necessary actions to protect critical infrastructure from cyber-attacks and developing national cybersecurity contingency plans requires coordinated policy and cooperation among all member states. i also support the call for stronger criminal sanctions for cyber attacks.
mr. chairman, please! what only 10, 15 years ago, when the internet was becoming mainstream, seemed like a science fiction movie scenario - that cyber wars could be fought and that the rivalry, the brutality could move from real life to the internet, to cyberspace - now it seems to be entirely possible. not only is this just over the horizon, but it's also clear from a report that was just released that the regime in north korea has invested a lot of money in training its own cyber terrorists to plan various attacks on the west for the north korean communist regime. this shows that international cooperation and tackling the threats posed by cyber threats is an absolute priority today - that's why i supported this document.
mr. chairman, please! over the past decade, energy has become a foreign policy mechanism - especially in russia - in which some energy importers, such as my country, poland, are subject to political blackmail by the kremlin. the negotiations on russian supplies usually involve issues outside the strictly economic and trade relations. it is not appropriate for member states with a stronger economic position to obtain much more favourable terms for the same contracts, as this shows that the others are discriminated against. the proposed solution of a common coordinated negotiating position between the union countries will enable us all to become a strong player on the world energy market. especially in relations with moscow, we should speak with one voice, which will significantly improve the position of countries such as poland, which are dependent on russian supplies. it is in the interest of my country and of the union as a whole to diversify energy sources. therefore, while supporting all activities in this field, i appeal for support for the investment of the gas port in świnoujście.
mr. chairman, please! as early as 10 years ago, a very senior russian intelligence official publicly said that gazprom was a tool of russian policy. the last 10 years have proven him right. today we are witnessing a situation where russia is using gas price negotiations to divide the european union. the countries that he considers better, more russia-friendly, are rewarded with better prices. countries that russia wants to put pressure on have to pay more for russian gas. the diversification of gas supplies is therefore very important for the citizens of the european union, but i support the proposal in this document that the european commission should be automatically involved in negotiations with third countries. we need european solidarity to ensure that countries that are weaker in the face of russian power can count on their stronger western partners, and therefore on the european commission.
in writing. − the floods that hit liguria and tuscany in october 2011 caused significant damage to residential buildings, businesses and agriculture, and damaged transport links and basic public infrastructure. i have experienced similar disasters in my country, and i am aware of the serious damage that the agricultural environment is facing. the livestock and crops are then at risk, the loss of which can cause a significant decrease in income from the business. flood-stricken areas rarely manage to cope on their own. financial resources are needed to ensure the rapid revitalisation of such areas. the european union was created to help those who need it most, to increase their prosperity and to ensure sustainable development. the money allocated to such assistance under the solidarity fund is perfectly suited to these objectives.
in writing. − like the ecr group, i voted in favour of the draft amending budget, which concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund of eur 18 million in commitment and payment appropriations following the floods in italy in october 2011. the ecr group opposed the use of the negative reserve provided for in article 44 of the financial regulation because we see a lack of transparency in this procedure. i also agree with the rapporteur that this would not help us in the present situation, but would only delay the solution of the problem for a while.
in writing. − the floods that hit the liguria and tuscany regions in 2011 have left a devastating toll: 9 people dead and 10 missing. the losses in both areas were estimated at over eur 700 million. in less than six hours, over 330 million cubic meters of water fell. massive rainfall, even record cloud cover, has caused rivers to burst their banks in this part of italy. villages and towns along these rivers have been flooded by avalanches of water, mud, and rocks. in the face of the tragedy faced by the people of italy, it is necessary to amend the amending budget of the solidarity fund. natural disasters cause enormous losses in the areas where they occur. i am aware that the current aid to italy will not fully compensate the losses suffered by the people there. however, i hope that it will contribute to some extent to the reconstruction of infrastructure in these areas and the return to normal life.
in writing. - i voted with my political group to launch the european solidarity fund. the floods that affected the regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011, causing significant damage to residential buildings, businesses and agriculture, and damaging transport links and basic public infrastructure, were a great tragedy for the citizens of italy. the direct losses caused by the floods are estimated by the italian authorities at eur 722,5 million. i believe that in the face of this natural disaster, it is our duty to act in solidarity.
in writing. − italy requested the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund following the floods that affected the regions of liguria and tuscany in october 2011, causing significant damage to residential buildings, businesses and agriculture, and damaging transport links and basic public infrastructure. less than two years earlier, dangerous floods had struck central europe, including my home region the carpathian basin. in a resolution adopted at the time, the european parliament called for assistance to be given to the areas affected by the disaster. in the event of natural disasters, all eu countries should show solidarity and help those in need as far as possible. that is why i supported mr fernandez's report.
in writing. − the solidarity fund was set up on the basis of a decision taken by the council in november 2002 to respond to natural disasters. this mechanism allows the european union to provide financial support to member states or regions affected by a natural disaster. in total, up to 50% of the total amount of eligible costs incurred for losses may be allocated to this purpose. as you know, the liguria and tuscany regions were hit by a natural disaster at the end of last year, which caused huge losses estimated at around eur 722.5 million. this is undoubtedly the reason why italy is able to benefit from the stability fund mentioned above. the commission's proposed eur 18 061 682 will undoubtedly help to alleviate the effects of the floods, but it must be borne in mind that the recovery of these regions may take years. any funds that go to liguria and tuscany now are extremely important.
in writing. - i would like to present the reasons for the vote on the report on the commission's proposal to mobilise the egf for technical assistance. firstly, the commission proposal is in line with article 8 of the egf regulation. however, the proposal was blocked by a blocking minority in the council, and the danish presidency therefore put forward a compromise proposal for an amount of eur 730 000, which is in line with the average expenditure used by the commission in previous years. i believe that the adoption of the presidency's proposal is a sensible way of quickly putting the resources to work for the implementation of the actions planned by the commission, in particular the evaluation of the programme, which is of fundamental importance in the light of the discussion on the future of the programme. in addition, i consider it important to call on the council to take action as soon as possible to extend the derogation allowing the egf to support workers affected by redundancies due to the crisis.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund is a financial instrument of the european union which was established to provide support to persons covered by exemptions resulting from major structural changes in world trade caused by globalisation. however, it should be noted that this type of aid does not always fulfil its purpose, since the use of the above-mentioned fund sometimes serves only a financial market game.
in writing. − while i have voted in favour of resolution no 2011/2286(ini) on defining a new development cooperation with latin america, it is of great importance that we realise there are substantial issues that continue to persist. i do commend the rapporteur on the report; however, i do feel that there were some problems that went unaddressed or were perhaps not given enough attention where this was needed. when discussing the further development of latin america, we must take into consideration the long history of oppression and society’s reluctance to have faith in governance. one such example is when numerous governments attempted and succeeded in privatising the use of natural streams and rivers used in rural areas for water. now every time a citizen goes for a bucket of water this is taxed and represents a large part of their monthly salary. many of the companies that own these waters are from the united states. similarly, since the creation of nafta there have been substantial acts of land grabbing and continued acts of labour exploitation. i strongly feel that there is much work ahead of us to better improve our development cooperation with latin america and we must stay diligent and consistent in our pursuits.
in writing. − volunteering activities are essential for encouraging citizens to be active in their societies, for enhancing integration and promoting democratic values. in europe, according to figures from the european commission, over 100 million europeans are engaged in voluntary activities; three in ten eu citizens claim to be active in a voluntary activity and close to 80% of respondents consider volunteering an important part of democratic life. in additional to having a clear social impact volunteering activities also have an economic impact as volunteers can improve their working skills and widen professional qualifications. in fact voluntary activities alone can add to the production of 5% of european gdp. to continue supporting volunteering activities in europe, the current report calls on the commission and the member states to set a legal framework and define clear rules for volunteering and volunteers in and between member states. the report suggests using existing programmes, such as the cohesion policy and cev, along with new schemes, such as tax breaks and the ‘european skills passport’, to facilitate and promote activities across europe. implementing this report could accelerate efforts to build a social and economic citizens’ europe, therefore i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the past european year of volunteering has clearly demonstrated the vital role that volunteering plays in promoting and realising values such as solidarity, social inclusion, human dignity and many others. so i am very pleased that we are taking further steps to make it easier for volunteers to do their important work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr marco scurrii, and congratulate him on his report. in my view, the european skills passport, which provides a means of attesting skills acquired through voluntary work, deserves particular attention. i am convinced that this instrument is an important step towards a greater public recognition of volunteering, which will contribute to the improvement of vocational qualifications and therefore to the increase of employment among volunteers, on the one hand, and on the other hand will provide an important incentive for volunteering activities. i therefore decided to vote in favour of mr scurria's report.
in writing. − crossborder volunteering is a driver of human capital creation and, above all, of activity and development, especially for young people. and i would like to point out that through volunteering, we are able to overcome limitations and even difficult crises. all you have to do is to turn on the human, social energy and the thousands of ideas of all these volunteers. statistical studies show that there are about 115 million volunteers in the european union alone. as you can see, this is a very big potential that needs to be pursued, nurtured and promoted. it is also interesting to note that three quarters of employers prefer to hire candidates with a cv showing volunteering experience. i have always supported and encouraged young people to volunteer and that is why i voted in favour of the marco scurria report on crossborder volunteering in the eu.
in writing. − i consider the idea of crossborder volunteering to be very important, and its support, development and promotion is almost universally supported. my abstention on this issue was related to doubts about the financial aspects, such as the call for national, regional and local authorities and the eu to provide adequate and stable funding. i don't think it's necessary to increase funding for volunteerism. the introduction of administrative simplifications and the reduction of red tape seem to be more important. i would like to emphasise that i strongly support some of the ideas in the report on volunteering, such as promoting this activity among young people, in the field of sport or in cooperation with third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the recognition and promotion of crossborder volunteering in the european union, because i believe this is important given the increasing number of citizens of all ages who are engaged in volunteering, which gives them skills that increase their employability, year after year. in the context of the ongoing economic crisis, this will contribute to achieving economic growth, including by effectively reducing unemployment. it is also important that a clear legal framework for volunteering is established at union level. at the same time, however, it is necessary to exclude the possibility of using volunteering to perform tasks that could be performed under a remunerated employment contract. it is also of particular importance that member states adopt appropriate provisions to provide volunteers with security and legal certainty with regard to insurance, which will certainly provide them with an additional incentive to participate.
in writing. − technology is playing an increasingly important role in all areas of our daily lives. millions of europeans work, study, communicate, shop, bank and manage their household finances online. with the increase in online activity, the threat to network security is also increasing, which has become a priority topic of union policy. today, more than 75% of households have access to the internet, and 36% use it for banking. the issue of adequate safeguards and building citizens' trust in online services must therefore be taken seriously and regulated at eu level. the 2008 directive on the identification and strengthening of european critical infrastructure and the establishment of the european cybercrime centre, which is due to start operations as early as january 2013, provide a good basis for further action to increase the security of citizens in cyberspace. the european commission estimates that every day, around 1 million people are victims of cybercrime, and that the cost of this illegal international activity is estimated at $388 billion. abuse is a widespread and, although related to the virtual world, extremely real phenomenon, and therefore needs to be addressed as a matter of priority. the internet is an integral part of our lives, and therefore online behaviour regulations should be brought up to date as soon as possible.
in writing. - the european parliament resolution on the protection of critical telecommunications infrastructure is the target. we live in an era where the internet and information and communication technologies are increasingly impacting all aspects of citizens' lives, integrating many communities and contributing to economic growth. unfortunately, they also provide a platform for cybercrime, which is expanding rapidly and into new areas. i believe that efforts should be made to create an effective mechanism to counter these negative phenomena at the level of international cooperation, as well as to establish by individual member states incident response teams that will minimise the effects of attacks that threaten the security of networks and effectively protect information and communication technologies used by public administrations and the military against their unauthorised use.
in writing. −energy security is one of the most important areas of the european union's economy. at present, about 80% of the community's oil and 60% of its natural gas is imported. this situation shows the extent to which the european union is dependent on its suppliers outside europe. unfortunately, the increasingly popular 'green energy' has so far not helped to reduce the community's dependence on external supplies. i believe that it is essential for all the member states to act together so that the eu is as little dependent on it as possible in the shortest possible time. therefore, any initiative related to the community's energy security should be supported by all eu political circles. i think two projects in particular should be particularly appreciated. i mean the nabucco pipeline and the somewhat forgotten sarmacia pipeline. stable financing and, as i have already mentioned, political support for the above-mentioned investments would certainly help diversify the eu's energy sources and provide cheap energy for the community for years to come.
in writing. - the facts speak for themselves, europe imports its energy security from beyond its eastern and southern borders. this would be the easiest way to describe our current energy policy. policies that divide and weaken the european union. we must finally start to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, the objectives mentioned in the report we have voted on. at present, about 80% of the community's oil and 60% of its natural gas is imported. there would be nothing wrong with that if it were not for the fact that we have the resources to reduce those numbers (shale gas in poland, the uk or romania) and we are totally dependent on russian imports. the report clearly identified this as a problem, particularly in central and eastern europe. the solution is simple: eu energy solidarity, which will, among other things, lead to the co-financing of projects that are strategic for our energy security, such as the nabucco and sarmacja pipelines.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. promoting human rights is one of the tasks we undertook when we became meps. in the context of political cooperation with many countries, we often encounter the problem of discrimination against these rights in various forms. this is particularly important in relations with our closest neighbours, often countries with european aspirations. our overriding objective should be to ensure that civil liberties are guaranteed in the countries directly linked to the union. the flagship example is belarus, which has been ruled for many years by an authoritarian regime that has brutally eliminated political opponents. in many other post-soviet countries, we also find elements that are contrary to international norms and standards of behavior towards their own citizens. most of them are relics of a bygone era. we'll also find instances of misconduct by democratically elected officials. european diplomacy must be able to act quickly and effectively to raise the political standards of countries with common interests. the appointment of a special representative can facilitate this, but he must work closely with the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and under the control of parliament. this is a vital condition for ensuring the coherence of foreign policy. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the promotion of human rights in the world must be carried out with respect for the right to live in a traditional family and ensure the protection of the values that we believe in. equally important is the fight against violence against women and girls, including violence based on a misunderstanding of the nature of religion in some religions.
madam president! despite the efforts of the european union and the high representative, ms ashton, to date - for which we thank her - there is a gap between formal recognition and effective respect for human rights. in the recently adopted report by richard howitt, we stress that the union's policy on the protection and promotion of human rights must not only be consistent but also exemplary. the appointment of a union special representative for human rights will strengthen democracy, the rule of law, freedom, the position of human rights defenders. its scope of competence should reflect the union's human rights policy. the abolition of the death penalty, the prevention of torture, the fight against violence against women and children and all forms of discrimination, including against persons with disabilities and lgbt persons, the defence of freedom of expression, including on the internet, and freedom of religion or belief, and the dialogue on human rights with third countries are of particular importance. given the growing importance of human rights in business, i support the amendment which extends the mandate of the special representative to support the high representative and the union institutions in promoting the un guidelines on business and human rights. in addition, the eusr should liaise with the un, the council working group on human rights, non-governmental and regional organisations, representatives of all levels of civil society, and experts. to be able to fulfil its responsibilities effectively, it should have a strong, independent and flexible mandate and, of course, adequate resources. a lot will depend on the person himself, his qualifications, experience, trust in the international arena. the person holding this post should be a specialist in international humanitarian law and international justice.
madam president! today's debate is not an idea that has been developed in a corner, in private, but is above all a debate on recommendations to the council and it is based on the provisions of article 27 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on the promotion of human rights and democracy and article 33 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights. it is also the result of interinstitutional arrangements, such as the debate of december 2011 on an effective union-wide approach to human rights and democracy. this was the result of our reflection on what happened after the arab spring. the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights should, above all, increase the effectiveness and coherence of the european union's human rights policy - we know that such coherence is often lacking - and ensure the proper role of parliament in the procedure for appointing the representative and monitoring the mandate that the special representative will have. the eusr should also chair high-level meetings on human rights, and be a partner to third countries, international organisations, both at regional and global levels. the future representative of the european union should be a person who is a leading authority on human rights among human rights organisations and institutions, recognised in europe, recognised in the world, because such a person will guarantee the right position for human rights in the union's relations with our partners.
madam president! the defence of human rights should be the backbone of what we do here, because we are also here, and perhaps even above all, to ensure the protection of human rights in the european union, but also in all those countries with which we cooperate and whose internal situation we influence. that is why i shall be voting in favour of this document, this report. there were, of course, some things that bothered me about it. it confused sexual freedom with freedom from torture, freedom to be free, freedom to assemble, which is what i mean by human rights. but despite these doubts, despite the fact that there are some doubts about the funding of this office, i think that everyone should support this report, because the establishment of such a special office for human rights is an important issue and deserves support.
madam president! the treaty on european union provides the legal basis for the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights, as it states: the council may, at the request of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, appoint a special representative with a mandate in respect of specific policy matters. the european parliament has been in favour of this possibility from the outset. we have repeatedly called for the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights, as referred to in parliament's resolutions on the 2009 and 2010 annual reports on human rights in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. that is why we are strongly supporting today the recommendation to the council by mrs salafranca sánchez-neyra on the european union special representative for human rights, and we are doing so in good faith, because that has been the position of parliament for a long time.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. your highness! the council's annual report on human rights in the world can only be considered a step in the right direction in the light of previous similar documents. finally, after years of pressure from members of this house and from many member states, the council's attention has been drawn to the pressing problem of religious freedom violations in almost every part of the world. i very much appreciate the role of the high representative in this matter. religious freedom is the most frequently and gravely violated human right in the world today. 75% of these cases - from restrictions on school access to the dramatic cases of murder for faith - are christians. yet the council report avoids naming the victims, succumbing to false political correctness. taking away the names of the victims is, in effect, another blow, another discrimination against those people who are already suffering. to deny that christians are the most attacked religious group today weakens our position, is a continuation of the old doctrine of turning a blind eye to the undermining of religious freedom. the report recalls rightly the conclusions of the foreign affairs council of february 2011. why, though, does he back off in the matter of christians? has anyone forgotten that even then some member states were not in favour of this shameful practice of obscuring the names of the victims? the language adopted at the time, pointing to the growing number of acts of religious intolerance and discrimination, culminating in recent acts of terror in various countries against christians and their places of worship, muslim pilgrims and other religious communities, was a good compromise. why is this compromise being abandoned today? the council's conclusions were adopted in the immediate aftermath of the bombing of a coptic church in alexandria, which killed 23 people and injured 97. is our solidarity with persecuted christians only a matter of weeks from the day of the tragedy?
in writing. the annual human rights report is impressive. the european union/high representative has taken a number of initiatives to protect and promote human rights. however, it is clear that the gap between the recognition of human rights and their effective implementation still exists. the rights of millions of people are being violated by poverty, wars, occupation, autocratic governments. we have repeatedly called for a more coherent, transparent and effective union human rights policy. the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights could provide a new impetus in this regard. the effectiveness of its actions will depend, among other things, on the mandate it receives, its experience and the willingness of the eu institutions to cooperate. for the union to speak with one voice on human rights, we need synergy between the eu institutions to develop common concepts and take specific actions. we should also support international institutions and mechanisms that deal with human rights at national and regional level. we need to build global alliances to be more effective in countering human rights abuses. it is important to review our reports and draw conclusions for the coming years. we must remember that women continue to be the main victims of discrimination, inequality, humiliation and violence around the world. their rights should therefore be considered as a priority.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking the high representative and the many people in the audience for their presence. i know it's not easy to focus on an arms trade treaty when the eyes of the world are on the football fields. i would also like to express my satisfaction that the european union (as the high representative has just said) is particularly active in these bilateral talks. the arms trade is something that we obviously have to deal with in the european union, but we will not be effective if we do not work with other countries in the world, with the united states, with china, with russia, and so on. the arms trade (of course we are aware of this) has been and is a controversial issue. the european union is, of course, a producer and exporter of arms. the arms industry employs several hundred thousand people in the european union. we're cutting defense budgets. of course, it's natural that companies, companies in the defense industry, try to find markets outside and export weapons. but, as many speakers have pointed out, the law must be respected. we must, as mrs lösing has just said, avoid selling arms to conflict areas and we must ensure that these weapons are never used against civilians and in a way that violates human rights.
madam president! well, i just wanted to say thank you. i am very pleased that the union is taking an active part in the preparation of the un arms trade treaty. the european union is a major player in the world economy. i would like to draw attention to the fact that we must give careful consideration to the subject-matter of this treaty. the arms trade is not just the export and import of arms. i think that in future work, we should focus more on re-exporting weapons and technical assistance in upgrading old weapons. these tools are very often used to circumvent the law and cause weapons to reach the wrong people. i would therefore urge that we pay more attention to the re-export of arms and the technical upgrading of old weapons.
madam president! the way president assad is behaving should not surprise anyone. he's a dictator, and he acts exactly like all dictators, whether they're right-wing, left-wing, nationalist or religious, to maintain their power and their money. any dictator like that, and history has proven it, will do anything to stay in power. president assad does more than some of the bloodiest dictators do to stay in power, murdering innocent children, murdering civilians. i think the place that president assad should be is in an international tribunal that is judging criminals, because today we have to say clearly and explicitly that president assad is a criminal, a criminal against his own people. what should worry us today is that a country that is an important partner and neighbor to us, namely russia, is cynically supporting the assad regime. let's ask ourselves, what are the values of the putin regime if they don't shake at the sight of children being murdered?
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. of course, i'll start with football again, it's hard to watch games calmly when you realize that dozens of people are dying every day in syria, not only soldiers but also civilians, including women and children. i think we all realize that president assad is no longer the hope of europe or the hope of america for the improvement of human rights and democracy and economic development in syria. we all know by now that president assad is simply a murderer of his own people. i think we realize -- and i think it's coming to us all -- that there may soon be a time when the only solution is military intervention. i'm not saying how, to what extent, where or when, but it could happen. this obviously requires the approval of the un and hence my question to the high representative how do you assess the chance of a change of position between russia and china? i have one more question, because i think there is one more country in the region that is extremely important and interested in the positive development of the situation in syria, and that is turkey. i wanted to ask you if the high representative is consulting with the turkish authorities on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! we talk about syria and we talk about how words are too much and actions are not enough. i agree with my colleagues, because such monstrous things are fortunately not often discussed here. we cannot spare words of condemnation, not only for assad, but for all those who support him, because those governments that support president assad are also committing a crime. a terrible, monstrous dictatorship these days. and i agree with all those who said that we must use all available, acceptable methods to save people from death, from suffering, to save the great syrian culture from destruction. and syria is bordered by a prosperous, democratic, thriving state of israel. i heard a speech by president perez, who declared that he would help develop democracy, help develop the economy, help build a modern society in neighboring countries. he was saying this in the context of the spring in the north african countries. that would be a dream. and i imagine that the palestinians, the people of the west bank, could also help the neighboring countries. and yet, from the terrible things happening around us, our attention is still distracted by the still-failing, deadlocked peace process between israel and palestine. we're talking about settlements, we're talking about trade agreements, we're talking about destroying humanitarian aid instead of talking about how these two societies could be a value-add in stabilizing the region. so sit down, the governments of israel and the governments of palestine, because peace in your region is what is needed most.
mr. chairman, please! this discussion shows how helpless we are, how little we can really do, because in this extremely tense place in the world, there has been a great change, and behind that change has been a great chaos. and chaos can be a great thing, and chaos can be a great danger. someone's shutting down the magnetic field. when the magnetic field is active, we usually know where the north pole is, where the south pole is, we know who's good, who's bad, who's fighting, who's trying to defend themselves. and today, we don't know. the old world of arab regimes is gone. he's gone and the last one is gone, the syrian is just a matter of time. in this situation, can we do more than support all those who are bringing democracy, who have built some peace? can we do more than support the democrats in israel and palestine? can we do more than fight to keep the peace treaties (the treaties with egypt and the ones israel has with jordan as well)? let us remember that this is a time when what is stable, democratic and predictable is a value in itself. finally, i warn all those who think that the threat to peace is israeli construction, which i do not support. these are the same people who don't see the rockets fired from gaza at israel or the iranian military program. this is just a mistake.
mr. chairman, please! we had the arab spring and we could talk about winter, but we have to talk about genocide, about crimes that are happening in front of the eyes of the world and the helplessness of the world institutions, global institutions, that are unable to come together to solve this problem. and i have a question: given the uncertainty in egypt and iran, what does mrs. ashton think about activating and working more with the arab league to solve the crises and problems in the arab world that we are facing now and that we will face in the future? there was a proposal to make a quintet instead of a quartet. what do you think of that? i think that maybe this would be a way to get to the heart of moscow, because it seems that the sight of various murders does not convince russia to cooperate in solving this crisis. maybe promising to activate the arab league would be a way to talk to russia.
in writing. the conflict in syria has been going on for 15 months and the number of people killed since the uprising against president bashar al-assad began has already exceeded 14,000. the government in damascus continues to use violence against its own citizens, who should be the most important people in any system and for any state. the situation is even likened to a civil war, in which the parties are a nation and a regime that is trying to hold on to power at all costs, using ever new means to fight opposition. moreover, despite the efforts of the international community, the conflict has not yet been resolved, which could significantly weaken the impact of this kind of peaceful intervention. however, nato does not plan military solutions, emphasising the priority of political channels. the eu should therefore seek to reach an agreement within the un and develop a joint action plan that can stop the bloodshed and bring syria out of the paralysis it is in. the syrian people want to enter the path of democracy, and they prove it with their perseverance and dedication. but the international community's support should be more decisive and more forceful in calling for concrete action.
mr. chairman, please! i have always believed, especially after the experience of my country, poland, that we should help others to build a democratic society. i know it takes perseverance, and it takes hard work, including political work. both political leaders and heads of government, political organisations and responsible people together - but i stress this for the second time - together must build the future in order to guarantee fundamental human rights, civil, political, social and economic rights and above all the protection of every citizen. i've also been on a few election observation missions in countries on the road to democracy, but what i read about the current situation in the congo really shocked me. this is the 21st century, and reading the amnesty international report "if you resist, we'll shoot you" i feel like we've stopped in the 19th century in many ways. democratic elections are necessary, but they are not enough. it is also necessary to create the conditions for the process of democratization and education, which is a process that is much broader and longer-term than the organization of the elections themselves. but only then, and only then, can there be any hope - and i still have hope - that the situation of the congolese people, especially the civilians and women, will improve significantly.
mr. chairman, please! i'm very pleased to be here today to bring you back to the issue of last year's elections in the democratic republic of congo. observing elections is very important, but our role should not be limited to producing a final report revealing the elections. equally important is whether the mechanisms of democracy actually work. i would like to thank member maria nedelchevej for her commitment to the drc during and after the elections. there is no doubt that the congolese authorities and people have a number of tasks to perform. we therefore call on the congolese authorities to ratify the african charter for democracy, elections and good governance as soon as possible. we also call for the full implementation of the recommendations contained in the final report of the european monitoring mission. we call on the european commission to ensure that these recommendations can contribute to the dialogue of all sectors of congolese society. we also call on the congolese authorities to guarantee freedom of assembly, freedom of speech, freedom of opinion and the right to security and physical integrity of all congolese citizens. without that, no election is going to improve the situation in this country.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if the european union is to become a global player by developing a common foreign policy, it must pay particular attention to the areas identified as 'black holes' on the geopolitical map of the world. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted by the threat of nuclear accidents. in order to make a positive difference towards democracy and civil society, the european commission and the member states are providing afghanistan with huge financial resources (it would be good if commissioner ashton could tell us how much the european union is giving each year for this purpose). afghanistan's problems are only apparently thousands of kilometres away from the eu's borders, because we live in a global village and we are directly affected by the crisis there, for example in the form of the influx of illegal immigrants. in pursuing its stabilisation efforts, the european union should make better use of the experience of some member states, such as poland, which have a good understanding of and longstanding involvement in the stabilisation process in the region.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. afghanistan is a western-led conflict. in the dozen years of our involvement, we have failed to defeat the guerrillas and win the support of the civilian population. the main pillar of our operation was to ensure security and victory in the fight against the rebel forces. despite consensus from europe and the united states, and russian support, the taliban forces have not been able to cut off their bases in pakistan and peshawar. we have not been able to stabilize the situation internally. in reality, we and the afghans only control part of the country. what can we do in such a tragic situation? with the french president announcing an early withdrawal of forces and the us having no plan, we should focus on fighting the sources of terrorist financing so that the underfunded do not provide an alternative to the government in kabul. the european union should increase funding to encourage afghan farmers to abandon poppy cultivation. moreover, development funds should be spent centrally on regional projects. the water and agricultural infrastructure sectors are particularly in need. it should be noted that the further fragmentation of afghanistan could lead to the somalization of the state and the division into warring tribes.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i wanted to say at the beginning that for the first time i'm glad that no one is in the room because i'm going to be speaking faster than planned and the poland-russia match starts in 25 minutes. but now that we are talking about afghanistan, we should not talk about military operations today, but i will allow myself to make one literal observation: the polish government, through the mouth of the president or minister sikorski, said that we entered afghanistan together and we should leave together. and i just wanted to make one comment about other countries: it's a shame that the current politics and the electoral battle is determining the decisions of the government that make us not get out of afghanistan together, because some of us will get out sooner. the situation is still very uncertain, of course, and there are a lot of uncertainties about the future of afghanistan. we have two years now to prepare afghanistan for self-government, for self-functioning of this country. and today, of course, what the high representative said is very important: training, advice, soft measures like that that will allow afghanistan to function normally in the future. i think we have to help figure out how this country is going to function, how it's going to develop economically, what it's going to produce, what it's going to export abroad. these are all very important things. but of course, the development aid we give has to be smart and thoughtful, not wasteful.
mr. chairman, please! what baroness ashton said is of course correct in its direction, because the change in the policy of the union, and of the west more generally, is, in my view, rightly to move away from the policy of replacing the afghan authorities with a policy of helping, with a policy of making those authorities feel responsible for the security and development of their country. i would just like to draw attention to one opportunity which we in the union are not taking very well. well, i think we should start a special scholarship program for afghan youth in the european union. i am thinking in particular of training specialists in fields such as medicine, mining and geology. i think it would have a better effect.
in writing. when discussing the current situation in tibet, it is worth noting that freedom house annually ranks tibet as the worst place in the world for freedom and human rights. after the bloody anti-chinese uprising of 10 march 1959, when the dalai lama and 80,000 tibetans fled to india, the situation in that country is very serious. there is a notable atmosphere of fear, torture and imprisonment of innocent citizens, who are deprived of most of the rights guaranteed by the universal declaration of human rights. the chinese government has banned any sign of support for the dalai lama. we must remember the very dangerous phenomenon that has been occurring in tibet since march 2011, when one of the monks set himself on fire in protest against the chinese occupation. since then, some 40 people have set themselves on fire in defiance of chinese government policies towards tibetans, most of whom have died. it is important to note that human rights activists interpret these suicides as a desperate attempt to respond to beijing's cultural and religious repression and increasing han dominance. china's ministry of internal affairs blames the dalai lama for this situation, saying that he is encouraging separatist terrorists. the dalai lama himself opposes any violence in the struggle for freedom, rights and dignity of the tibetan people. the european union is also calling on the international community to take action to ensure that the tibetan people are not left behind, and to ensure that the tibetan people are not left behind, and that the tibetan people are not left behind.
mr president, i am not going to speak about competitiveness, growth and fiscal discipline. i want to go beyond economics because on that nearly everything has been said. i want to speak on the cost of shrinking europe and the cost of there being a half europe on the horizon, and on the collateral damage being done to the union itself and its future and its unity. five points. one: we witness the birth of two levels of solidarity for those inside and those outside the eurozone – compare spain and hungary – with a shrinking budget for the eu27 and generous handouts for eurozone member states only. eventually, proposals for a separate parallel growth budget of up to 1 % of gdp for the eurozone only, which will be equipped with a separate parallel eurozone parliament along with a eurozone summit and administrative councils. two: we witness two standards of treatment and macro-economic conditionality of member states, different for big and small countries, and once again different for eurozone member states and non-eurozone member states. three: we witness a two-speed europe not just expanding but becoming more and more acknowledged and approved, irrespective of the wishes of president barroso. this threatens the very integrity and unity of the union. four: we witness the mounting erosion of the community method with intergovernmentalism and national egoisms resurging. five: we witness the political weakening of the eu on the international scene and we risk a security vacuum and geostrategic threats if greece or anybody else falls out. how does one measure the collateral political damage? what is the cost of a shrinking europe and the cost of europe? how many billion euros is it worth? how does one find a solution for all of europe and not half of europe?
mr president, i am also among those who hope that the council, at the end of june, will make a decision on an ambitious and very bold action on growth for europe. our duty in parliament is to see that this new multiannual budget invests in new sources of growth, but also in restarting the eu-wide competitiveness machinery and relaunching convergence forces. there is a lot of catching up to do in europe, because the eu machinery for convergence in the areas of the economy, trade and finance has clearly slowed down. this is dangerous, because divergence can become a force for break-up. without a doubt, the eu budget must focus strongly on genuine investment policies and competitiveness for all. this leads me to the reformed cohesion policy and its founding tools. we must see that they target the most effective sources of growth. we must ensure that the well established pro-catching up capabilities of cohesion policy work for all of europe and we must also ensure that this policy-powerful convergence machinery works towards reducing competitiveness gaps between south, north and east. let me conclude by emphasising the need for us here in this house to stick to parliament’s commitment to give the eu the budget level it needs.
mr. chairman, please! the debate on cohesion policy and the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 has been ongoing for many months. this discussion is becoming less and less understandable to europeans. many heads of government in the member states may be tired of the crisis, but do they not see that the european budget is one of the main instruments of growth rights? it is the european budget that forces the member states to allocate their own resources to investment. 1 euro of the structural funds brings between 2 and 5 euros of own resources, public and private, to invest in the member states. and the example of cohesion policy is proof that the traditional dispute between net payers and countries that benefit most from eu funds is not justified. recent studies clearly show that for every euro invested in the eu countries from cohesion policy funds, a large part of it returns to western europe in the form of increased consumption, exports or demand for modern technologies and services. any attempt to reduce the eu budget will therefore only provide apparent savings and will consequently contribute to a decline in the competitiveness of the european union as a whole. i hope that the european parliament and the european commission will defend the cohesion policy and the size of the eu budget to the end.
in writing. the challenges facing europe today require that we have the tools to be efficient, effective and effective in order to meet them. tough times call for tough and decisive decisions. we cannot be torn between ambition and savings all the time. i would like to stress that the eu budget should be an investment budget. the appropriate level of investment, in particular on the basis of cohesion policy, will overcome the crisis and ensure growth, competitiveness and a correspondingly high level of employment in europe. i am convinced that a strategic, transparent and balanced budget will allow us to achieve these objectives. the union budget will be based to a large extent on own resources, in particular on the financial transaction tax, and the elimination of rebates and corrective mechanisms will allow the burden on national budgets to be gradually reduced, while at the same time increasing the transparency and fairness of the union budget.
in writing. the european council will meet in june and the eurozone crisis will once again be the main topic. the recovery requires solutions that are both macroeconomically effective and politically feasible. the complexity of the financial crisis and the lack of a strong political response in its early stages have meant that there is no easy and painless way out of this difficult situation. the euro area remains in urgent need of reform. some of these have already been implemented - the main ones are the six pack and the two pack, which are currently under development. however, these regulations only address some of the institutional problems and their effects will only materialise in the long term. meanwhile, the intensification of the financial crisis requires action with immediate effect, as the crisis of confidence and market pressures are now severely straining member states' ability to refinance their debt. the upcoming summit is a great opportunity to make bold decisions. the first priority should be to seek solutions that do not require treaty changes, i.e. to make the fiscal adjustment process more flexible and to strengthen the 'firewall' to protect the financial systems of peripheral countries. the next step should be institutional reform of the euro area, i.e. the creation of a common system for recapitalising and restructuring banks, a common deposit protection system and the development of a plan for at least partial mutualisation of public debt.
madam president! since independence in the 1970s, guinea-bissau's political situation has been marked by continuous instability, chaos and conflict between civilian and military authorities. all this translates into a deep crisis for the whole country and a high level of poverty for its citizens. additional concern is caused by the military coup in april, which was organized virtually on the eve of the presidential elections, thus preventing their holding. i condemn this shameful incident and call on the european institutions to take diplomatic action to stabilise the situation in guinea and restore civilian administration. only democratically elected representatives of the authorities can gain international recognition and support for the process of building a healthy state body from the ground up. the protection of constitutional order and the establishment of peace in the territory of guinea is a vital european interest, given the need to block the international drug trafficking route from south america. i support the resolution.
madam president! i very rarely agree with the previous speaker, but this time i am surprised to find that we have a very similar attitude to what is happening in guinea-bissau. i too am in favour of this resolution, i voted for it. guinea-bissau is a country which unfortunately is a very important part of a certain chain used by the drug cartels to transport drugs to europe. it is a country which, for this reason alone, must be of particular interest to the european union. but also because the european union - as i have emphasised many times in my speeches and as we all too often forget - is for many people around the world a symbol of freedom and democracy. we have to be - and this is what people in very different countries expect us to be - this international organisation, this union that sets democratic standards. the military coup we have seen recently in guinea-bissau, which prevented the holding of presidential elections, is the sad consequence of everything that has happened since guinea-bissau gained independence from portugal. since then, there has been a constant conflict between the military junta and the attempts to re-establish civil society.
madam president! we all know in this house that president bashir is wanted for genocide. the international community continues to struggle to deal with the fact that sudan is led by a man who should not function in a normal democratic world. on the other hand, south sudan -- a country with vast natural resources, development opportunities, frankly, perhaps unique on the continent -- is still a country that has one of the highest rates of infant mortality, poverty and misery in the world, which falls on this country. i therefore believe that the european union must play an active role in order to alleviate the situation, which is now reaching a critical stage. there are more and more gun incidents, shootings on the border between south sudan and sudan. we have all recognized the peaceful separation of the southern provinces of sudan and their declaration of independence as a success. that is why i think this resolution is the right one and i voted for it.
madam president! trade relations with the countries of south america are an important element of the eu's economic policy. in addition, the commitment to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law also expressed in the resolution is always an essential precondition for effective dialogue with foreign partners. therefore, the involvement of their governments in the creation of legal frameworks and mechanisms for dialogue with civil society should be encouraged where these do not exist. the peruvian and colombian authorities have done a great deal to combat poverty, violence, corruption and drug trafficking. that is why i voted to pass this resolution.
madam president! i supported this agreement because i believe, having observed colombia for many years, that it is a country that should be an example of how to deal effectively with gigantic problems. colombia today is a very different country than it was 10 or 15 years ago. much of this has been due to the very successful presidency of president uribe, which has brought peace, opportunity and development to large sections of the colombian people. i believe that our free trade agreement with colombia is opening up opportunities for the country to grow even faster, to fight poverty even faster, and also (which is worth emphasizing here, because you can't turn a blind eye to colombia's problems) to effectively combat what is still the biggest problem in colombia today, which is the gigantic production of drugs. if trade opportunities with the european union will allow many villagers, many inhabitants of the provinces of colombia, to switch from drug production to other activities, which we will enable them to do by opening up european markets, this will also be part of an effective fight against this terrible evil, which is drug production in colombia.
madam president! we regularly encounter cases of illegal arms trade. the apparent lack of transparency, of concrete international legal solutions to the transfer of conventional arms or their components, is a direct route to political instability and fuelling armed conflicts, as well as terrorist attacks and the rise of organised crime groups. all of these factors cause unnecessary loss of life and suffering to millions of citizens around the world. as virtually all countries in the world are involved in the arms trade and its value is systematically increasing despite the crisis, it is necessary to regulate this area at global level. i therefore support the resolution's key call for swift negotiations and the urgent adoption and launching of a comprehensive un treaty on this matter. however, regardless of their outcome, the european union should consistently support efforts to stabilise the arms trade through diplomatic efforts, consultations and information policy.
madam president! the arms trade is one of the great moral problems of civilized nations. on the one hand, the production of arms is a vital factor in the economies of many individual member states of the european union, it is the source of many jobs, because we know that arms are simply necessary - democratic countries need these weapons to protect themselves against the evil that still exists in our world. on the other hand, we are aware that today the arms trade is also, to a large extent, the source of income for dictatorships of all kinds, terrorist organizations, organizations which are simply bandits. that is why global control of the arms trade seems to be a necessary thing and why i have wholeheartedly supported this resolution.
madam president! free and fair elections are the foundation of democratic governance. the presidential and parliamentary elections held last november, despite eu assistance and the involvement of many observers, have raised a number of doubts among both congolese and international opinion. the report also highlights the serious human rights violations, particularly by members of the congolese army. while taking note of the results of the recent elections, i would like to stress the need to continue to engage in the process of establishing a fully democratic political system in the congo. i call on the current authorities of the republic to take into account the recommendations on electoral reforms contained in the final report of the eu observation mission and demanded by the opposition. any irregularities revealed during the elections should be strongly condemned. at the same time, i draw the attention of those in power to the urgent need to stop the violence among the civilian population, to ensure security and the rule of law. i voted to pass the resolution.
madam president! the european union has allocated a considerable amount of money - over eur 50 million - to the monitoring and conduct of the elections in the democratic republic of congo. unfortunately, today, after we have seen the results of these elections, we are not able to verify whether they are true. this is one of the fundamental problems in this country, which is very important from our point of view. but there are problems that are actually more important problems. these are mass rapes that are happening in the republic of congo and that are happening, we hear, and this is reliable information, involving the congolese army. so it seems that this resolution was the resolution that was needed. i think it's also the hope of a lot of people in the congo who want this country to follow the democratic path that it deserves, that all countries in the world deserve.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the european parliament recommendation to the council on the 67th session of the united nations general assembly. i consider the protection of human rights to be particularly important. focus should be on the adoption in 2012 of a resolution on a global ban on female genital mutilation and on the continuation of efforts to call for a moratorium on the use of the death penalty. it is also important to continue to support actions in the field of children's rights, media freedom and religious tolerance and the abolition of torture, including the adoption of an optional protocol to the un convention against torture. the union should underline its involvement in the work of the un human rights council by participating in joint statements, declarations. the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights will contribute to the union's standing in the field of human rights on the international stage. the union should therefore make this known at the 67th session of the un general assembly and indicate that the mandate of the special representative will include cooperation with the un permanent representative for human rights and the un human rights council. i also draw attention to the role of women in building and maintaining world peace. in this regard, efforts should be made to ensure that all un member states implement un security council resolution 1325, which takes into account the gender perspective in the context of conflict prevention, peacekeeping operations, humanitarian assistance, post-conflict reconstruction.
in writing. − the current economic crisis, which has a huge impact not only on the eu but also on the world economy as a whole, has contributed significantly to the slowdown in economic growth. for the time being, the european community is trying to combat the economic downturn. but the effects of this struggle vary from country to country. the eu's peripheral countries, the so-called pigs, are the worst hit so far: portugal, italy, greece and spain, and ireland, and cyprus is also increasingly being mentioned. the growing budget deficits and the rise in the yields of individual countries' bonds (greece's bonds have already reached almost 30%) as well as the problems of banks have led the above-mentioned countries to turn to the european institutions for financial assistance. these actions have led the authorities in brussels to introduce greater economic and budgetary surveillance of these countries that require funding to fight the crisis. the so-called 'double-track' rules, which strengthen the commission's control over national budgets, will give the european commission a very large role in shaping these budgets. i think that in the long run, the transfer of increasing powers to a single authority can be a very dangerous phenomenon. i believe that the lower the decision on budgetary expenditure, the more effectively it is implemented. moreover, the proposed solution is overdue and will not meet the expectations set for it. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. − the draft legislation put to the vote today continues the process of deepening the economic integration of the euro area member states and significantly improves the economic governance system. strengthening budgetary surveillance and the role of the commission in that surveillance, in particular with regard to countries with an excessive deficit procedure, and harmonising and increasing the transparency of the budgetary adoption process in euro area countries, will contribute to enhancing the credibility of national fiscal policies, which will improve economic coordination in the euro area and safeguard it against further shocks in the future. at the same time, it should be noted that the benefits of the possible implementation of the proposals in question will not materialise in the short term. therefore, we should not stop looking for solutions on a day-to-day basis. one such solution is certainly the debt amortisation fund. the creation of such a structure would imply an indirect mutualisation of the public debt of euro area member states, which would, in turn, reduce market pressures and ease the refinancing conditions for these countries. nevertheless, because of the significance of the implications, this idea still needs to be elaborated and analysed in depth.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! the european union has never before had such economic and financial problems. the economic slowdown, rising unemployment and the growing budget deficits of individual member states (the biggest problem currently facing greece, with increasingly worrying signals coming from spain) have led the european institutions to try to use the situation to some extent to increase their (already large) competences. i am referring to the european commission. the proposal to monitor budgetary plans and ensure the correction of excessive deficits in euro area member states serves this purpose. suffice it to mention the so-called "two-pack". of course, countries that apply for financial aid should be subject to closer scrutiny. however, the commission's proposed action is not in the interests of democracy and is designed to make the community countries more and more dependent on brussels. i think that's not going to meet the expectations. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. − the geographical extension of the ebrd's activities is usually done for important economic and social reasons. that's the case we have here. it is a support for democratic change in the southern and eastern mediterranean. the extension of the ebrd's activities in this area will contribute to the creation of new investment and development opportunities through assistance in the selection of development strategies and co-financing. despite the crisis, the union is in a far better position than the countries of the region. the aid granted, if it has the desired effect, will also create new and better economic opportunities for the union and strengthen the people's sympathy for europe.
in writing. - in the fight against the financial crisis, the european union should invest in solidarity and bear the costs of this investment in solidarity. the two are inextricably linked. it is of the utmost importance that the resolution emphasises the investment nature of the eu budget, which, although representing only 2% of public expenditure in the eu-27 as a whole, translates significantly into the union's internal development (94% of the eu budget is dedicated to stimulating economic growth) and strengthening its position in the world. i also welcomed the fact that parliament is working hard to ensure that adequate resources are allocated to cohesion policy and infrastructure projects, which are crucial for our country. on the other hand, it is also important to share the costs of the eu's operation. it is therefore important that the resolution stresses the need to balance the budget by reforming the eu's own resources system, ending all rebates and exemptions and increasing the flexibility and transparency of spending. in view of the above aspects of the resolution, i have decided to vote in favour of it. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has sent a joint and unambiguous communication on the budget of the european union.
in writing. − the ep's insistence on the principle 'nothing is decided until everything is decided' is a response to the council's attempts to decide on the eu's long-term budget in a way that infringes the ep's prerogatives. in the case of poland, which the ep is in favour of, it is simply dangerous.
in writing. - in a difficult period of crisis, the european union needs to strengthen its key community instruments. it is therefore essential to increase the expenditure on cohesion policy in the new budget for the years 2014-2020. it allows the community and investment character of the union budget to be maintained. the increase in the budget will be a positive boost for the eu economies and a clear signal that the gap between central and western europe is closing. the commission considers that the measure is imputable to the state and that it is imputable to the state. i am opposed to the introduction of a european climate tax and to the demands for an increase in the price of greenhouse gas emission allowances granted to industrial operators. in times of crisis, putting extra strain on industrial plants is like walking blindfolded on a thin rope stretched over a precipice.
in writing. - i am pleased that trade negotiations have been opened with japan, which is one of the largest economies in the world. japan is in a special economic situation: public debt is almost twice gdp, but it is almost entirely domestic debt. it has achieved a high level of economic development in the past, and is now a region of moderate growth but with strongly developed tools to protect access to the internal market. the advantage of this agreement is that the eu wants reciprocity, it has defined strategically important areas of cooperation. this is the case where we have precisely defined the objectives, areas and instruments of trade cooperation, with great concern for the community's interests. these are important reasons to vote in favour, with the expectation that the matter will be brought back before parliament in september.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european union's negotiations with japan. i believe that the council should temporarily not allow trade negotiations to start until parliament has determined its position on the proposed negotiating mandate on the basis of the inta report. such action would be in accordance with rule 90 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure. the opening of negotiations on a trade agreement between the european union and japan is conditional on japan's ability to remove regulatory barriers to trade, which would allow for closer economic cooperation between these strategic trading partners. the progress report on the 'scoping exercise' shows that there are a number of problems, particularly in the area of railway public procurement and other areas. this is a sign of a lack of consistency with the joint resolution of last year, which is a guide to eliminating non-tariff barriers. in addition, it should be stressed that a temporary suspension of the authorisation for negotiations until parliament has delivered its opinion on the matter in the form of a report by the inta committee would be of benefit from an institutional point of view. such an approach would improve the standing of the european parliament, which is often marginalised.
in writing. − the peace agreements between north and south sudan, concluded in 2005, have not brought an end to the long-running armed conflict. the current renewed escalation of violence on their border is the result of many, often intractable, problems that have existed in the region for a long time. however, now both sudan and south sudan have reaffirmed their commitment to an immediate cessation of hostilities and on 4 june, they began their first high-level talks on border security, as the situation in the region threatened to re-ignite civil war and escalate into full-scale conflict. in addition, drought has affected sudan and south sudan, causing people to migrate in search of food, and the un says that about one million people may starve to death if food aid does not reach them in the coming months. that is why i voted for this resolution, with the recent image of sudan in the eyes of election observers.
in writing. - i've been watching with concern the developments in sudan. the growing conflict has a clear economic-religious basis. i remember well the joy of the people of south sudan after the independence referendum. it was their lucky day, a day that, as you can see from the perspective of time, did not for a moment appease or discipline their aggressive northern neighbor. his attacks began days after the referendum results were announced. fortunately, the conflict has not yet escalated to full scale and the warring parties have begun to try to establish a dialogue. the union should become an active mediator in this conflict and urge the un and the african union to send a peacekeeping force to the disputed abyei region and monitor the withdrawal of south sudanese and sudanese forces in accordance with the arrangements agreed by both parties on 20 june 2011. i believe that the resolution we have voted for fully reflects the line that eu diplomacy should take.
in writing. - we voted after hearing the speech of president ollanta moses humali tasso in the european parliament. the president confirmed that peru will respect the agreements with the european union, emphasizing the pro-environmental policy of the peruvian government, the policy of fighting against the production of drugs. peru is an exporter of raw materials and wants to develop its manufacturing and services sectors to be able to compete with other south american countries and avoid a crisis. the trade agreement is balanced and the presence of the president of peru on the day of the vote on it is proof of the utmost importance that the peruvian government attaches to this agreement. this has strengthened the incentive to vote in favour of the agreement.
in writing. − in voting on the report on the eu permanent representative for human rights, i strongly supported the creation of this office, as i consider the protection of human rights to be the backbone of eu action. the eusr should focus on areas that are in particular need of union assistance in the area of civil protection. the report on the eusr for human rights stresses that in carrying out his mandate, the eusr should cooperate with representatives of local, regional and national civil society, non-governmental organisations, experts and regional and international organisations active in the field of human rights and democracy. finding the right partners for dialogue is particularly important given that it should focus on respect for human rights, especially in non-democratic countries. the european parliament has called several times for the appointment of a special representative for human rights and i am glad that this matter is finally coming to a head.
mr president, i would say that the european semester process is undoubtedly doing a good job by enhancing economic governance on the one hand and enhancing policy coordination on the other. i also believe that this year’s outcome demonstrates visibly how much the adoption of the ‘six-pack’ has contributed to the semester progress, especially through giving more power to the european commission. but i also believe that this is a learning process for all of us and, on the basis of the experience of the two cycles, let me point to one or two challenges, as i see them, that this process is facing. in my view, one of the issues is certainly the timing factor. i was thinking that maybe further adjustments with regard to the timing factor could be considered by the commission, for example better alignment of the timing of the release of the annual growth survey, which targets the entire eu-27 family, and the alert mechanism report, which is introduced by the ‘six-pack’ and which targets specific member states. perhaps better alignment and sense of timing could increase the efficiency of the process. another area which is also important is linked to the fact that forecasts are never perfect. as the annual growth survey is based on the forecast prepared by the commission and then there are those budgetary adjustment recommendations, i was wondering whether the commission has already seen any risks, in terms of the changing reality, that do not fully match the forecasts? it would also be interesting, following on from what colleagues have already mentioned, to hear how the commission sees the proportions between the eu recommendations respected by the member states and those decisions which are made nationally, irrespective of the recommendations. my very last comment is that what we have seen this year is a visibly enhanced european parliament role, where again i think the six-pack and the economic dialogue have made the difference.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the end of the year marks the 20th anniversary of the creation of the european single market, which was designed to strengthen the links between citizens and member states. during this period, we have seen countless benefits and new opportunities through the gradual introduction of legal simplifications. the single market has proved particularly helpful in the years of the crisis. the free movement of capital, goods and services, and above all people, has made a significant contribution to the well-being of citizens in many countries. unfortunately, due to administrative and legislative problems, we are still unable to exploit the full potential of this tool. it therefore welcomes the assurance given to the commission that the single market act will remain at the forefront of strategic political priorities. all the measures to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises contribute to stimulating economic growth, which in turn brings tangible benefits to european consumers. there are still many obstacles to the operation of these companies. the proposal to improve the functioning of the single market through it tools, which clearly facilitate citizens' problem solving, is noteworthy. the completion of the digital single market this year is highly desirable. this also entails a further 25% reduction in administrative burdens over three years and the modernisation of public administration. the current opportunities offered by the internet, such as online commerce and services, should also be fully exploited. action to improve the functioning of the services sector through the swift and efficient implementation of the services directive is essential. it covers services, which account for as much as 45% of eu gdp, and is constantly growing. it is therefore a powerful tool both for combating the crisis and for the union's systematic economic growth. the elimination of discriminatory provisions, even on grounds of nationality, which still exist in some member states will be a particularly urgent issue.
mr. chairman, please! to achieve economic growth, we need a well-functioning internal market, and for that we need the right legal environment. in many cases we have legal instruments, but they cannot be fully exploited because they are not implemented by the member states. an example is the services directive, which covers services accounting for 75% of the union's gdp. her potential is enormous. i think it is very important that the draft resolution refers to the implementation deficit, because i consider this to be the main problem in terms of the incomplete functioning of the internal market. it is important that the european commission is proactive and last week adopted a package on the implementation of the services directive, noting that the implementation of the directive will generate an additional around 1% of gdp for the whole union in the next 5 to 10 years, and if member states are more involved in the implementation process, this value will increase to as much as 2,5% of gdp. member states must therefore be ambitious in their implementation of the directive, but also focus on identifying areas where progress could still be made, i.e. they should ensure that no prohibited requirements are applied and where possible remove the requirements under assessment. i have mentioned the implementation of the services directive, but this also applies to other areas, such as public procurement, which we are currently working on. i am glad that parliament has raised this issue in its resolution.
mr. chairman, please! we not only have to make good laws, we also have to listen to the citizens well. i remember the single market forum in krakow, where the participants adopted the krakow declaration. we have come a long way since then and much has happened in areas where citizens and businesses have expressed their expectations - not to mention public procurement, the recognition of professional qualifications (the commission's proposals are already being developed in the european parliament). we are also working on out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes related to online purchases. the work on roaming, which was also a major problem, especially for young people, has been successful and could be replicated. we have challenges, very serious challenges, like the postal service. they are still unreasonably expensive in cross-border trade. they hinder the development of electronic commerce and thus slow down the growth of the european economy. the communication with the public is a total failure. the way in which public consultations are conducted needs to be improved. there's been no progress here for years. we are now celebrating the 20th anniversary of the common market and organising a common market week. let this be a good opportunity, well used, to listen to citizens and to set the priorities of our work together with them. you said that we must build europe together with the people, so let us do it right now this year in the common market.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! there is no doubt that one of the greatest benefits of the european union is the functioning of the single market. it is one of the few factors that stimulate the european economy. if the european commission lists weak and late transposition and the inadequate implementation and application of eu single market standards as the main weakening factor for the economy, then the question of the current attitude of member states and their destructive actions becomes legitimate. there is a growing return to national rhetoric, to blame others for economic problems. the question is, is this the right way? i don't think so, you know. the recipe for the current crisis is more europe, not less. the removal of existing barriers to the european market will certainly help to stimulate our economy. the will of the member states is needed. instead, there are increasingly voices about social dumping, about the taking away of jobs, about the need to restrict the free movement of people and goods. the question is, where does it lead? in the face of changes in the world economy, a return to closed national economies will certainly not improve the situation, on the contrary. the commission should therefore, whilst monitoring any breaches of the single market, constantly come up with new solutions to facilitate the implementation of the law in force in the member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. modern, well-structured european company law is - and i need not convince anyone - one of the main canons of the good functioning of the single market. i would say that it is one of the sine qua non conditions for the functioning of the single market. i am therefore very pleased that we are seeing significant progress in the work of the european commission and increasing commitment to company law. the members of the parliament's legal affairs committee have long emphasised the importance of a law that is well tailored to the times and the needs of eu businesses for the proper and dynamic development of the european economy. new forms of activity or the expansion of european companies, for example on the internet, require modern legal solutions that will, above all, withstand the administrative burden and excessive bureaucracy, while allowing for clear, transparent and safe development activities from the point of view of entrepreneurs. i am confident that the consultations on the future of eu company law which have just been concluded will point the european commission in the right direction namely to improve, where possible, and to replace with new, good regulations the rules which unfortunately still exist in the internal market. i also believe that the work currently being done in our legal affairs committee on the regulations on auditing and corporate governance will not be able to function well or very well in practice without new or amended regulations within company law. i am aware, of course, that initiatives in this field (as the commissioner has mentioned) may encounter certain obstacles, particularly from certain member states. however, i am convinced that the added value of these projects, especially if the stakeholders themselves, i.e. the entrepreneurs, opt for them, will convince the undecided. i wish the commissioner and us all the best.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we've talked a lot in this room about the loophole in the corporate law. i wanted to mention another gap that we have not talked about, and that is the gap between the practice of many company boards and some european values. that's the value of not discriminating on the basis of gender. i therefore wanted to ask that the suggestions made by the european parliament in its report on corporate governance be taken into account in the preparation of this legislation. these suggestions follow commissioner viviane reding's proposals to increase and, as it were, impose on boards the target of 30% women by 2025 the number of women on boards of companies that are now almost non-existent. i hope that the commissioner, who is sympathetic to this idea and to this proposal, will take it into account when preparing legislation.
mr. chairman, please! the europe 2020 strategy assumes that 75% of people aged 20 to 64 will be in employment by the end of 2020. this is therefore expected to contribute to sustainable economic growth in the union. the document also indicates that 17.5 million new jobs are to be created by 2020. this is an extremely ambitious project, given the current state of public finances and the economies of the member states, and the unemployment rate across the union, which is increasing from 9,5% in 2010 to 10,2% today, rather than decreasing. that means that in the last few years, six million jobs have been lost. the prospect of a so-called climate package, which could lead to half a million unemployed in my country, poland, for example, is also worrying. of course, the european parliament's draft resolution on the communication on economic recovery and employment contains legitimate objectives, which include creating new jobs by promoting entrepreneurship and self-employment, and - which is very important - calling on the commission and the member states to increase investment through public procurement. at this point, ladies and gentlemen, the question to ask ourselves about the future budgetary outlook is whether the reduction of the union budget, including for cohesion policy, will not lead to a deepening of the economic crisis.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner barroso's speech at the presentation of the communication on employment-friendly economic recovery in the european union reminded me of the words of a well-known american investor who recently said that jobs are not created by employers but by consumers. this is something we must bear in mind when we take action to put the union on a path to economic growth. therefore, we should focus on actions to stimulate internal and external demand, by supporting member states, inter alia, in creating employment incentives and in intensifying support for new enterprises. it is also worth considering the issue of non-standard forms of employment, which often contribute not only to a huge segmentation of the labour market where some workers have extensive rights and some are completely deprived of them but can also increase the risk of poverty and social exclusion. it is therefore important that member states responsibly combine job flexibility with job security and adequate remuneration, so as not to give rise to the emergence and development of so-called working poor. on the other hand, member states should pay close attention to actions targeting workers. through social investment, member states should activate their citizens and equip them with the tools to help them respond flexibly and proactively to changing economic and social conditions. the problems faced by young people in the labour market should also be given priority. once again, i stress the importance of investing in education and training and equipping young people with the skills that labour markets require. the european commission's latest communication contains many good and necessary solutions. i hope that the commission will soon present concrete legislative solutions to implement these ideas.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that creating new jobs is the fundamental way to tackle europe's most pressing problems, poverty and unemployment, especially among young people. it's also the only way to get back on the path to growth. investments in promoting entrepreneurship and the removal of bureaucratic and legislative barriers that block the development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which accounts for 70% of jobs, are needed. the lack of links between education and employment is also a problem. despite the persistently high unemployment rate, surprisingly, the number of job vacancies is not decreasing. young people, often with higher education, do not have the qualifications that employers are looking for, nor are they well prepared to start their own business. i believe that these issues require new solutions at every level: local, regional, national and european.
draft opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - mr president! the amendments to the seveso ii directive are due to the need to adapt to the clp regulation and not to the increased number of serious accidents, so i fully agree that there is no need to change the seveso ii system. however, as a member of parliament with an opinion, i consider it particularly important to supplement and clarify the provisions on community information or consultation and participation in decision-making. it is very important that this information is complete and correct. the point is not to flood the public with information it does not need, but to provide accurate and understandable information. community information is a very important part of building trust, but also of educating the public on how to behave in the event of a major accident. the seveso ii directive is based on annex i, which is an essential element in defining the scope of the directive. therefore, amendments to this annex should be introduced by the ordinary legislative procedure and here i agree with the lead rapporteur.
madam president! the amendment of the seveso ii directive is a necessary step towards more effective prevention of disasters such as those in italy, france and japan, which have claimed many lives. they have caused damage to public and private property and environmental damage, costing billions of euros. this directive is important because it imposes obligations on operators and member states' authorities to prevent and mitigate the effects of accidents. the european union should systematically strengthen its inspection and risk analysis rules. the revision of this directive will improve coordination of legislation and thus put an end to unnecessary duplication of controls. at the same time, it is worth emphasizing that special supervision should be given to subcontractors, as they are often negligent, as we saw in hudson bay. the european parliament, as the representative of the citizens, should be able to be fully involved in this decision-making process, and i therefore support the rapporteur's view that changes to existing regulations should be made through the ordinary legislative procedure. parliament should also be regularly informed by the commission of industrial accidents and their response. the public must also have easy access to transparent and reliable information on hazards and how to deal with them in the event of an accident. the internet is an effective tool for raising awareness. they should be used as soon as possible, starting with an information campaign on the new classification of toxicity and the risks to life of the substances.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! female genital mutilation is a terrible tradition. not all cultural traditions are good. pain and suffering can't be good. we respect diversity and difference. but there are areas, defined by european values, that force us to protest and to act decisively. we don't agree to the mutilation of women. we consider these practices harmful, dangerous to health and life, and cruel. we will do everything possible to reduce this phenomenon and in the future to eliminate it altogether. we don't want the girls to suffer for reasons that can't be justified in any way.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on the report. as regards the new regulation, it should be noted that the existing provisions left much to be desired in practice. although they were adopted to allow the free movement of such goods, they have, through ambiguous and often unclear regulations, led to trade distortions in the internal market of the european union. therefore, changes to eliminate excessive administrative burdens and to counter the restrictions on competitiveness, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises, which dominate this specialised food industry, should now be supported. but beyond the market, food safety is the most important. especially when it affects such vulnerable groups as children. i would also like to echo the opinion of the european economic and social committee, which believes that member states should be allowed to apply national rules where justified on grounds of public health. such a solution would not jeopardise the identical treatment of similar products throughout the european union.
in writing. the ries report has fulfilled its primary function of providing consumers with relevant information on food for special uses and food for infants and young children. the qualification and labelling of key foods for certain population groups such as infants and young children and patients requiring specialised dietary nutrition have been clarified. the inclusion of gluten-free foods, foods used in low-calorie and very-low-calorie diets and the exclusion from the composition of food categories of substances with potentially harmful effects on the health of the population concerned are particularly valuable. particular attention should be paid to the provisions concerning foods for low birth weight infants or premature infants who cannot be fed on breast milk or standard formulae. such food will have to comply with the requirements applicable to food for special medical purposes. a major change also concerns the recommendation to limit the use of pesticide residues in formulae intended for the feeding of infants and young children. the implementation of these provisions will have consequences for the operators involved in the production of such foodstuffs in the form of the need to change their labelling. the commission has prepared transitional periods to allow the use of packaging labelled in accordance with the applicable rules. this report will contribute to the health of european society, reduce administrative burdens and promote fair competition between businesses across the union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at noon. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on european milk producers.
colleagues, please do not exceed your speaking time. the extra speaking time allocated to ms lulling was my birthday present to her!
mr. chairman, please! farmers, milk producers in europe, do not think well of us politicians because we are not able to develop solutions that ensure stability in the milk market and give prospects for the future in this very difficult sector of agricultural production. the milk farmers are now living in great uncertainty about what will happen when the quotas are abolished. we have no convincing economic analysis of this and this is another agricultural reform in europe, which is based on jumping into a pool without checking whether there is water in it. in poland, the introduction of milk quotas has eliminated milk production in small farms, and once quotas are abolished, medium-sized farms are likely to disappear too, leaving only large farms. on the one hand we want to support small farms in the future agricultural policy, and on the other hand we are destroying them through irresponsible market behaviour. we expect the commission to undertake more in-depth analyses and take more responsibility for the future of milk production in europe. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i agree that they are also responsible among national politicians, although i have addressed my comments to the commission, expecting it to carry out a more in-depth analysis. we still know too little about what will happen when this reform is put into effect. we want to support small farms because that is the direction of the future agricultural policy. we want to create better conditions for them, but these market reforms go against this trend, because the abolition of quotas will certainly harm the small and medium-sized farms in particular, which will not survive. the blame is obviously shared by different politicians.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
mr. chairman, please! the linguistic diversity of the european union can cause problems both in the field of information and in activities related to public administration. guaranteeing citizens the right to public consultation and to official acts in their national language is an invaluable asset for proper coexistence in the european family. in short, it will lead to a strengthening of the elements of direct democracy in the countries of the union. greater participation and involvement of citizens in the public consultation process can be a symptom of constructive social dialogue and of their political engagement and confidence-building in european policies. in the context of the european year of citizens next year, it is important to raise people's awareness of the benefits and rights of european citizenship. in the hope of spreading consultation through the work of ngos and guaranteeing citizens the right to receive eu correspondence in their mother tongue, i voted in favour of the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! all the measures to increase transparency and to harmonise economic and commercial rules have benefited businesses by enabling them to compete more effectively on the market. this also applies to company law, the formation and operation of which, particularly in the territory of several member states, often encounters barriers due to the different interpretation of the provisions or simply to their diversity. i voted in favour of the resolution because it draws attention to the need to take initiatives to simplify procedures for the business environment and to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens. i also believe that there is a need to develop common sets of rules, for example on the protection of subsidiaries and interested parties and a more transparent legal and ownership structure. i also note the need to intensify work on the preparation of the statute for a european private company, which is in the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - i voted for this report, as did the ecr group. it is worth noting that this regulation is probably the first act concerning the fisheries sector to be aligned with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is therefore very important to find a good legal solution to protect parliament's rights under the lisbon treaty. it is also important that the solutions adopted in this regulation may affect the decision-making procedure to be applied to other multiannual plans. i fully support mr stevenson's position on this. it is important to remember that the choice of type of act is not always clear: delegated and implementing acts have the advantage, compared to legislative acts , of allowing us to react quickly to new situations. this is the ordinary legislative procedure and delegated acts guarantee parliament's participation in the decision-making process. our electorate expects the ep's input.
in writing. − following the proper procedure in the event of a major accident involving dangerous substances is of the utmost importance, as it can pose a risk not only to the environment but also to human life. therefore, public education should be conducted competently and regularly, but in a manner that does not cause panic in the event of danger. cross-border cooperation and coordination of actions between regions must be reliable and systematic checks should ensure stable and reliable monitoring of potential threats. amendments to directive 96/82/ec should be preceded by appropriate consultation of experts and before we adopt the commission proposal to amend annex i to this directive by means of delegated acts, we need to have a guarantee that progress reports will be submitted to parliament and the council on a regular basis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the dangers of major accidents involving dangerous substances. the eu has adopted a number of directives to reduce the likelihood and consequences of such failures. major industrial accidents such as those in seveso (italy, 1976), bhopal (india, 1984), schweizerhalle (switzerland, 1986), enschede (netherlands, 2000), toulouse (france, 2001) and buncefield (uk, 2005) have claimed many lives and caused damage to the environment. i agree that the proposed revision of the seveso ii directive is necessary, but i would stress that amendments should only be possible through the ordinary legislative procedure, as the european parliament should be able to exercise its full powers in the decision-making process.
in writing. − major industrial accidents cost many lives and cause great natural losses and environmental destruction. the proposed directive on accident prevention does not require any substantial changes. however, i believe there are three areas which need to be emphasised more strongly. first, it is essential for prevention to ensure that industrial installations are inspected regularly and reliably. secondly, i think that the natural hazards are underestimated, which also lead to major industrial disasters. thirdly, the directive must take account of the safety of the transport of dangerous substances.
in writing. - i believe that it is our duty to take into account the health concerns of the most vulnerable people, and that includes children and infants. i therefore believe that we should ensure at european level that products marketed for infants and young children are free from pesticides and other toxic substances. some pesticides pollute the environment and unfortunately their residues can be found in products intended for the youngest. this is unacceptable. i share the rapporteur's view that children for whom a special diet is of fundamental importance deserve special attention and uniform treatment throughout the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on food for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes. i believe that the report adopted will better protect and inform consumers. they will be able to distinguish easily between 'ordinary' food and food intended for a specific group of consumers. from now on, producers of milk, including infant milk, will be required to provide better and more reliable information on the composition of milk and to ensure that products placed on the market are free from pesticides. the new rules will help to improve the health of european citizens and reduce administrative burdens and facilitate fair competition.
in writing. − the public consultation announced is one of the best tools in the eu's transparency policy. eu citizens often complain that the union is too incomprehensible, too complex and too distant for them. i therefore sign the call for the commission to respect the right of every eu citizen to address the eu institutions in any eu language by ensuring that public consultations are available in all the official eu languages. in this way, we can encourage europe's citizens to take an active part in the union's policy-making process and combat the so-called 'democratic deficit' which is blamed (and unfortunately often rightly so) on the european institutions.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in tibet. i am a co-author of the epp resolution and i am glad that we have reached agreement on a common text. it's a pity the socialists don't want to recognize the need to support the tibetans. the tibetan people need our commitment constantly. we cannot lose hope and faith that their peaceful struggle will eventually lead to an improvement in the situation. it reminds me of an african proverb: "if you want to go fast, you can go alone, but if you want to go far, you better go in a group". perhaps the best thing to do is to bring about a change in the plight of the tibetans quickly. but at the same time, it should be a change that goes far. i am convinced that if the eu member states were to become more involved in the tibetan cause than they are now, the results would be more satisfactory. you have to believe it's possible. no government, no political or social system is permanent or eternal. china can and should change, too. we want to help them.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution, as did the ecr group. the single european market brings enormous benefits to europe's citizens and opens up new opportunities for european businesses. in times of economic crisis, the eu's priority should be to remove all remaining unjustified obstacles to the free movement of goods, services and workers. i also see the need to use the eu funds available quickly to reduce youth unemployment. it is essential to step up the european investment bank's access to finance activities. it is also important to stimulate research and innovation, and better use of available eu funds can support growth-enhancing projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the future of the single market act, bearing in mind in particular the following aspects: further strengthening of the single market is essential to increase the competitiveness of european markets and to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that regulations to promote the development of small and mediumsized enterprises are particularly important here. the sector plays a key role in europe's economic development, is the source of up to 67% of employment, and has a major impact on increasing competitiveness and innovation. however, the incomplete implementation of the small business act still leaves businesses facing excessive bureaucratic burdens, problems with access to funding sources and barriers to market entry. however, progress in the implementation of the relevant legislation by the member states is noteworthy, and hence the gradual improvement in the situation. i hope that the proposals contained in the single market act ii will contribute to the effective removal of barriers to the functioning of small and mediumsized enterprises, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − deepening the single market by better implementing existing law and removing remaining barriers, and developing a digital market with enormous potential for the eu, is one of the most obvious and effective responses to the economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted with the ecr group in favour of this resolution because i welcome the commission's public consultation on the future of european company law. i am very pleased that we have taken as a starting point the statement that our primary objective is to enable european businesses to compete more effectively on the international stage. we also rightly noted that crossborder mobility for businesses should be facilitated. we, meps, are therefore awaiting the outcome of the commission's consultation on the future of european company law.
in writing. - the resolution contains many points which i support. i agree that the commission should support member states in the fight against unemployment and youth unemployment by using unused structural funds. i also support the promotion of entrepreneurship, start-ups and self-employment, especially given that smes and micro-enterprises provide more than two thirds of private sector jobs in the eu. however, like my group, i have reservations about the idea of introducing a european youth guarantee which would be legally enforceable. i see a huge problem of youth unemployment, although this provision is too drastic in the context of the eu's interference with the competences of the member states.
in writing. - the resolution addresses one of the major problems of our time: work, decent work, decent pay. like my political group, i voted for a pro-employment european policy, which is to be served by an investment pact for growth and jobs. tax solidarity is intended to serve the social protection system by reducing taxation on labour, replacing taxation on labour with taxation on capital and consumption. i also voted in favour of a european labour market monitoring system. the resolution expresses parliament's concern for the vital issues of citizens and is intended to mobilise states, governments and the european commission. i could not support the resolution as a whole because the fundamental amendments failed to gain support.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy envisages that 75% of people aged 20 to 64 will remain in employment by the end of 2020, thereby contributing to sustainable economic growth in the eu. the strategy also shows that 17.5 million new jobs are to be created by 2020. this is a very ambitious project, given the current state of public finances, where unemployment across the union is increasing from 9,5% in 2010 to 10,2% in 2012, instead of decreasing. we have 13% unemployment in poland, and we have 4% inflation. the goals we have set are absolutely right. but the analysis shows that what we do is not conducive to development, and sometimes even blocks it. the current budgetary perspective is running out and the needs, especially in road infrastructure, are still huge. the lack of new ventures has resulted in unemployment rising month by month to the aforementioned level of 13%. the european community was created to level the living standards of the different countries, not to raise them. let's not forget that. that's why i decided to vote against it.
in writing. − the europe 2020 strategy envisages the creation of 17.5 million jobs in the european community by 2020. given the current expansion of administration and market regulation, coupled with the economic collapse and subsequent european taxes, this is an ambitious plan. just look at the countries that the european commission considers to be leaders in economic growth, like poland. in my country, unemployment, despite positive economic indicators, is over 14% and rising every year. the main factors driving up unemployment in central and eastern europe, as well as in the union as a whole, are the import of cheap products from the east, especially china and india, rising energy prices and the collapse of european markets. unfortunately, contrary to the analysis of european experts, policy makers want to continue down the road of economic ruin by pushing for unthinking and unilateral cuts in co2 and greenhouse gas emissions. in poland alone, scientists estimate that the energy and climate package will cost about 500,000 jobs by 2050. i therefore believe that we should try to bring about a debate as soon as possible on the social impact of 'strategic and long-term union projects'. there was no encouragement for such a discussion in the voted document.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on the communication 'towards an employment-friendly economic recovery'. this resolution is of particular importance to young people. i strongly support the european youth guarantee initiative. it is designed to help graduates at all levels to find employment, further education or training within four months of leaving school or becoming unemployed. youth unemployment costs europe €100 billion a year. the guarantee will cost eur 10 billion and the eu funds that could be used for this purpose have already been identified. i therefore call on the member states, the commission and the council, in close cooperation with the social partners, to introduce a legally enforceable european youth guarantee in order to gradually overcome the problem of youth unemployment. the employment objective of the europe 2020 strategy requires an increase in the employment of women. women are the largest reserve of untapped labour force and the majority of people living in poverty in the eu. i call on the commission to take action to eliminate the gender gap in the labour market and to develop strategies to promote women's work-life balance. in this context, member states should implement the barcelona targets on childcare in order to increase the employment of women.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the sahel is a region where the situation is very serious. the list of causes that led to this condition is really long. in the past, poverty was mainly caused by natural disasters, poor harvests and high food prices, as well as weak governments and poor security and human rights. today, the situation is critical for three reasons: the civil war in libya, the activation of the tuaregs and the coups d'état in mali, and the rise of the radical islamic sect boko haram in nigeria. the objectives of the eu's strategy in the sahel are quite clear: countering extremism and radicalisation, helping to resolve local conflicts, enhancing security and the rule of law, and developing and improving governance. the problem is that these assumptions are correct, but the implementation rate is not satisfactory. that is why we should focus more on respecting human rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the problem of acute malnutrition in the sahel countries is reaching alarming levels, affecting at least one million children. the population affected by the political and food crises exists in conditions of extreme poverty. in addition, the weak administrative structures of the countries in this region of africa are contributing to the development of organised crime and the flourishing of terrorism, thus increasing the threat to security not only in this region of the world. given the region's relative proximity, the european union must demonstrate its full commitment to stabilising its internal situation and improving its security, including its own. i therefore fully support the call on member states to mobilise all available resources to support the security and development of the sahel states and to cooperate in the implementation of these actions in the international arena. in addition to the deplorable acts of violence against the population, carried out by both the authorities and terrorist groups, the abductions of european citizens are particularly disturbing. the rapid proliferation of heavy weapons in the sahel region as a backdrop to the libyan conflict also requires a strong response from the international community.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question about the tuareg. why do you think it is that in some cases the concept of the territorial integrity of states prevails, and in others the principle of the right of nations to self-determination? we support an independent south sudan, and there are many politicians who support the palestinian aspiration for a state of their own, and in the case of the tuareg, there is much less support, or none at all. why is this happening?
in writing. every citizen has the inalienable right to be treated with dignity, to live in accordance with the rule of law and to respect moral standards. we cannot remain indifferent to the widespread violation of human rights, the deepening humanitarian and political crisis in the sahel states. in mauritania, for example, slavery has been abolished three times, yet it is still widespread. it is also alarming that for over 30 years, moroccan authorities have been blocking access to western sahara by human rights ngos, preventing access to water, education and basic information. despite the presence of the un mission for the referendum in western sahara, this mission has no competence in respect of human rights, which in my opinion is unacceptable. for many months we have also been witnessing the cruelty and deterioration of the situation of the sahel people, which is manifested, for example, by the constant waves of migration. this is due to the lack of political response to the activities of armed rebel gangs, mercenaries, former gaddafi troops and al qaeda terrorists in northern mali, niger and chad. we europeans should respond loudly and decisively to these events. in the name of freedom and respect for human rights, we must all condemn the escalation of violence. it is desirable that europe should speak with one voice and clearly express its opposition to the events in the sahel.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. once again, the european parliament is forced to speak out in defence of human rights in this region of asia and in this country. it means that this situation is repeating itself, but it doesn't mean that we're powerless. we must of course speak about this, because we have examples (the president of parliament spoke about this today) of our efforts having a positive effect in egypt, so there is hope that these efforts will also lead to improvements in the philippines. this is indeed an absolutely unacceptable situation and a breach of certain universal, humanitarian standards. i believe that the european parliament should take a strong stand on this issue, above and beyond the political divisions.
mr. chairman, please! the law enforcement and justice systems in the philippines are not functioning properly, as confirmed by the un human rights council in its may conclusions. moreover, the level of violence against journalists and political activists has increased dramatically since the last review in 2008. the un report specifically highlights the november 2009 incident in which armed men from the ampatuan clan, linked to local militia, ambushed citizens supporting the opposition candidate in the regional election for governor of the region. as a result of this brutal incident, 57 people were murdered, including foreign journalists. the subsequent actions of the judiciary were deliberately delayed and as a result proved to be completely ineffective. the lack of efficiency goes hand in hand with the lack of transparency in the law enforcement system, casting serious doubts on its independence. the frequent extrajudicial executions and kidnappings continue to go unpunished. the philippines shall take all measures necessary to ensure security and law enforcement in its territory.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is a pity that iran - a country with such a long tradition, a long history, a beautiful culture, a great, important country - is today ruled by authorities who do not respect fundamental rights, who create problems for the international community with their nuclear aspirations, but who are above all oppressive towards their own people. there are many persecutions, for example against christians, but also against national minorities. we should, of course, respond to that. there's not much we can do. the iranian authorities are very resistant to any criticism, but we should not stop criticism. the european parliament should send a clear message that we do not agree with this approach, that we condemn it. we should also support the very active iranian opposition in europe, which we also see in the european parliament, and this is the right direction to put pressure on the iranian authorities.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. iran is a country where the rulers have made violence and human rights violations their policy. their hatred was directed primarily against christians, who had suffered persecution for many years, often dying for their faith. it's not easy being a catholic in iran, because it's very easy to lose your life. the european union, which has its roots in christianity, has a duty to protect these people and therefore the situation in iran must be strongly condemned. the right to practice one's religion is one of the fundamental human rights. under no circumstances, economic or political, can we tolerate what is happening in iran. i therefore call on the commission to take all possible action to protect christians in iran.
mr. chairman, please! in iran, we have seen many violations of the fundamental rights of minorities, discrimination on religious, ethnic, social, economic grounds. the principles of the covenant on civil and political rights and the international bill of human rights are therefore violated. they are particularly concerned about the arrests of protesters calling for respect for civil liberties. in addition, iran is one of the countries with the highest number of death sentences. thus, the lives of many people who have committed no crime by international standards are in constant danger. the situation is difficult for the sunni kurdish minority, who are accused of espionage and acts against the state, are harassed and live in constant fear of arrest and execution. the international community should raise the alarm about the lack of respect for these rights in iran and urge the iranian authorities to amend the constitution and legal code to ensure the protection of minority rights. i do not know whether it is right that our parliament has already postponed the visit of our delegation to iran twice. i think we should keep in touch.
mr. chairman, please! the very difficult situation of minorities in iran is closely linked to the lack of religious freedom in the country. my predecessors have mentioned, have spoken in detail about the discrimination and persecution of minorities, ethnic and religious minorities, especially christians. however, i would like to make it clear that i am personally particularly pained by reports of the use of the death penalty against people who have changed their religion. such executions are a fundamental and brutal violation of the right to freedom of religion. these executions should not be allowed to take place.
mr. chairman, please! fellow workers! i would like to draw your attention to and ask for your support for the amendment to article 2 (2) tabled by the four political groups: epp, ecr, epp and gue/ngl, on the exclusion of broad gauge railways from the scope of the first railway package. it will be a sign of our consistency and the credibility of parliament. last november, more than 430 meps voted in favour of the amendment, more than twice as many as voted against it. two months ago, at a meeting of the transport committee, the meps from the transport committee also supported this amendment by 30 votes to 13. i do not understand, therefore, commissioner kallasa's suggestion that this amendment is in any way intended to prevent the general idea behind the transformation of the first railway package from being accepted. there was a time for this, there were meetings for this and it was the european commission's attitude that prevented the amendment from being adopted, which is why it must be voted on today in plenary. what does this amendment cover? this amendment concerns a well-functioning undertaking or well-functioning undertakings within the european union of regional importance which use track gauges other than those generally applicable in the country or on the european rail network. these are well-functioning enterprises, often in places with high unemployment, which add value to the regions of the european union. i therefore urge all members to support this amendment in the vote tomorrow.
well, i'm referring to the discussion and to what is called in this room the "polish exception". let me be a little more specific. of course, we are also in favour of creating a common railway market in europe, as far as possible, but we cannot do this mechanically without taking account of the realities. in poland, we have a lot of railways, because there are 19,000 kilometers of tracks. the 18 600 km of track is and should be integrated more quickly into the european network, there is no doubt about that. but we have 400 km of track, which is less than 2% of the entire wider track network. please understand that it is not possible to force the integration of these tracks into the network at this time for technical reasons.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in the context of the revision of the first railway package, it is of particular importance to pay attention to member states in which railway undertakings operating services on infrastructure that they also manage and which have a track gauge other than the dominant railway network in the member state concerned that connects with railway infrastructure in a non-eu country are operating. because of their specific situation arising from the specific nature of the region of the eastern european states formerly under the jurisdiction of the soviet union. i believe that these lines cannot be part of the transeuropean transport network. therefore, railway lines of this nature should be excluded from the application of this directive.
water is a public good should be available to everyone, regardless of income. it has to be of good quality, which requires investment, mostly public and private-public. sustainable management of water resources is needed in the union and in its neighbouring countries. first, therefore, the union's science policy should take greater account of the challenge of environmentally friendly, efficient water management for agriculture, industry and the public. secondly, the privatisation of the supply of drinking water to the public must not lead to a monopoly of ownership to the detriment of consumers and to the full commercialisation of those services which, by their very nature, because of the lack of the possibility of switching suppliers must be treated as public. thirdly, given the increasing frequency of flooding risks in recent years, which have been observed in the member states, due to climate change, a comprehensive analysis of the possibilities of preventing their effects is needed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. the abandoned wisla program should be resumed. fifth, the new union financial strategy should give a much greater weight to investments in hydraulic infrastructure.
the availability of water in the world is very diverse, hence the lack of a proper approach to its use in a global context. but fortunately, we are increasingly aware of the importance of water management in terms of its impact on economic and civilization development. we are currently focusing on energy security in europe, which is understandable. i am convinced that in the coming years we will give water management the place it deserves, and this report will certainly contribute to that. water is a unique commodity that should be widely available, but on rational terms of use. i therefore accept the use of market criteria to reduce water consumption, but at the same time we must ensure that water is financed where it is not. investing in water infrastructure, its collection, rational use, and ensuring its quality should be our priority. water is of particular importance for food security, agricultural development and environmental protection.
yesterday, we heard the final whistle of this year's european football championship. and so ended the greatest mass celebration in the history of our country. we are proud that poland has been able to co-host this european event. looking back at the last few weeks, the euro has breathed a new spirit into our country, and not just a sporting one. it also demonstrated that poland and ukraine had managed to cope with high expectations and that the preparation work had been appreciated by both athletes and fans. football teams praise the excellent organization and technical preparation of their stadiums, and they appreciate the hospitality, courtesy and professionalism. we also thank you for entrusting us with such an important undertaking, for your faith, trust and words of appreciation. we also thank the european union, whose financial resources have helped to implement many investments. in particular, road infrastructure, airports and railway stations have been improved. these are certainly investments that will last for years. euro 2012 was also a great opportunity and opportunity to promote our country. (...) the chairman withdrew the speaker's voice.
madam president! i wanted to congratulate mrs. paulsen on a very good report. you've approached this difficult subject with a great deal of sensitivity, but also with a great deal of realism. the solutions you propose are very concrete. i want to emphasize three points. firstly, the rapporteur draws attention to the problem of funding. we cannot achieve higher animal welfare standards without additional financial investment. you have to understand that this is not going to happen without money. the second issue is that - you have dealt with this quite extensively - the problem of trade relations and the need to take animal welfare into account in trade relations with other countries. we should simply require those who export their products to the european market to apply the same standards as we do. and finally, thirdly, you've seen the very complex problem of pets. we should finally have uniform standards for the treatment of these animals in the european union, because there are still no such standards.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 3 july 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the attractiveness of investing in europe (2011/2288(ini)) (a7-0190/2012).
mr. chairman, please! europe remains an important destination for foreign direct investment. but there is a growing emphasis on developing countries in the fight for investor attention. so how can we fight to keep europe's position as a strong place to invest? the main advantage of the european market is a stable and predictable business and legal environment. economic activity in europe is very well regulated compared to some parts of the world, and the orderly political situation guarantees the possibility of conducting business in stable conditions. another major asset of the member states is the high quality of their human capital. then what's the problem? in europe, there is a growing emphasis on socially responsible business, which, in addition to the general objective of increasing shareholder value, also focuses on environmental, environmental and social issues. these requirements are very expensive. but to compete for investors' money, we need to keep our financial system so that banks can continue to finance investments in times of uncertainty. investors are concerned about europe's low growth, its accumulated debt and its high tax rates.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 3 july 2012). written statements (art.149)
the next item is the report by miloslav ransdorf, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade aspects of the eastern partnership (2011/2306(ini)) (a7-0183/2012).
mr. chairman, please! i'm very happy to bring this up. there are some valuable things in this report: the emphasis on the principle of 'more for more', the emphasis that russia opposed these negotiations, which will have fatal consequences. this is an important, political statement. the report also provides some information on how countries are doing. well, some are doing better, like georgia - which you mentioned - some are doing worse, like belarus, which i understand both your president and all of us here are very worried about. but the fact that this cooperation is important, important - alongside political and social cooperation - is worth emphasizing. and i think that's the most important thing that comes out of this document. let's involve these eastern partnership countries in cooperation, because it's important to them and it's important to us.
mr. chairman, please! it is important that the european union supports the eastern partnership countries, talks about their european aspirations and forms of closer integration. it is important to create the conditions for these countries to accelerate the process of political association and further economic integration between the european union and the partner countries concerned, recognising the economic benefits of the development of trade in goods and services. strengthening the eastern partnership, including increasing its funding, is also a necessity now that the union is facing an economic crisis and is engaged in building a new strategy for the south. the initialling of the eu-ukraine free trade area agreement and the initialling of the association agreement between ukraine and the european union are to be welcomed. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the 'contract for the supply of services' signed on 28 november 2014 between the government of the russian federation and the ministry of foreign affairs of the russian federation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 3 july 2012). written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the report by françois alfonsi, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the evolution of eu macro-regional strategies: present practice and future prospects, especially in the mediterranean(2011/2179(ini)) (a7-0219/2012).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (tuesday, 3 july 2012). written statements (rule 149)
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i think this very rich debate clearly demonstrated what was mentioned by several speakers, that the danish presidency was hard-working, dynamic and practical, and delivered a lot. i think that progress on many files was very clear, and we in the commission highly appreciate that. despite the efforts, it is clear that further work is needed on energy efficiency, the european patent and schengen. in all of these very important areas we need more ambition, more europe, and a clear respect for the community method. i particularly appreciate the danish presidency’s efforts and results, and the method used in organising the discussions and negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. prime minister, your presidency delivered a ‘negotiating box’ which is a good base on which we all can work to conclude negotiations by the end of 2012. you have been very clear on the importance of close cooperation with the european parliament delegation. you continued regular meetings which, i am sure, will pave the way for good cooperation on this very important file and increase the chances that we will be able to conclude these very important talks by the end of 2012. i would also like to highlight that with the opening of accession talks with montenegro, the granting of candidate status to serbia and the progress in cooperation with other western balkan countries, your presidency sent a very strong signal of solidarity and cooperation from the european union to the western balkans and showed them the way forward in mutual cooperation. to conclude, i appreciate the personal involvement of minister wammen, and the highly professional performance of the permanent representative, jeppe tranholm-mikkelsen, because they helped me achieve progress on the file which has been on our table for more than three years, namely how to better manage the agencies in the future. we worked very hard with the european parliament delegation under the leadership of jutta haug and i am absolutely convinced that our common approach on the principles will help us to avoid the situations we are facing now with the european patent. we will be able to manage the discussion on what we will need to establish as regards agencies in the future in a much better and well organised way. my thanks to the danish presidency for its great effort and great results.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the commission, leaders of political groups, honourable members of this house, thank you very much for this debate. first of all allow me to thank you for your kind words, particularly to our minister for europe, nicolai wammen. i think that it is a very good sign that at the end of a presidency you are all on first name terms with nicolai and appreciate the hard work he has done. i have listened very carefully to your remarks and noted that we share the fundamental commitment of getting europe back on track, a commitment to restore growth and create new jobs for the too many unemployed. our presidency has tried to do just that at a very difficult time, not least thanks to the work done in this house. we have taken big steps in the right direction and now we need to make sure that we continue to deliver together and we will continue our efforts in the council to do that. no doubt when european citizens look at us – if they are looking at this debate at all – what they expect from us is that we will pull through the crisis together, and create new growth and new jobs in europe. as i see it, this requires full use of the community method. what does this mean? well sometimes it means that we have heated debates about lines of division. that is how it will be always and this is how it has also been during the danish presidency. we should not be scared by that because that is how it is when you make compromises. sometimes we agree, sometimes we do not. but we always share a common goal of serving europe and serving its citizens. let me try to address some of the main topics which you have raised today. many of you have rightly pointed out that we still are in a dire economic crisis, and you are right. it has been the case, and will continue to be so for some time, that we act every day against a heavy backdrop of the economic crisis, with thousands and thousands unemployed in europe. that is why i am so happy that many of you have shared my concern in pushing for the implementation of the growth and jobs pact. this is important. some thought this growth and jobs pact was not enough, and perhaps you agree, but nevertheless this is a small light in the dark that will create some hope that we can create growth and jobs in europe again. we discussed this also at the european council on thursday and friday and, as i said there, i have no hesitation whatsoever in recommending to the council that we strengthen cooperation with the parliament in doing this: strengthen cooperation in terms of creating growth and jobs and perhaps fast-track some of the decisions that we need to take. it is of course important that at every step we take in the development of the union we respect the role of the european parliament, and i have stated this very clearly in the european council. i hope that we can all agree to urgently deliver on this compact. european citizens have the right to expect that from us. i would very much like to thank some of those who have mentioned the multiannual financial framework and i would warmly thank everyone who has participated in this house in these discussions. we have had a very close and constructive dialogue on the negotiations, and we have had that throughout the presidency at all levels. we have done our utmost to fully respect the powers granted to the european parliament and we have put great emphasis from day one on hearing your views and bringing them to the floor of the council. i dare say that on this dossier we have had the closest cooperation between any presidency and the european parliament ever seen. we all know that the negotiations ahead of us will be very difficult, but i hope that the involvement of the european parliament will continue in the same constructive atmosphere as it has started. some of you have mentioned the patent regulation and of course i have taken good note of your remarks concerning the patent. let me remind you that europe has waited more than 30 years for a solution and when you wait for 30 years you know that a solution will require a compromise. i understand that the european parliament will continue to discuss this in september and i hope that the european parliament will live up to its responsibility and help reach a final agreement for the sake of creating growth and jobs in europe. some have said: ‘this is not good enough; we want it differently.’ i have no problem understanding that this is the position of the house, but again i would urge that we do not end up in a situation where we make the best the enemy of the good. one of the things i was particularly pleased to hear about in our discussion today was the many mentions of the green agenda. all of you here know that it has not been easy to push the green agenda in a time of crisis, but i am proud of the results that we have achieved together in this area, particularly when we talk about energy efficiency. let me also extend special thanks to the commission, to commission president barroso, when it comes to continuously promoting a green economy. he did that very well in rio, he has done that throughout these six months and i know that he will continue to do so. mr barroso’s devotion and commitment is crucial and i thank the commission for it. the european union is the best framework imaginable to overcome the challenges facing us today and tomorrow. the crisis we have right now, and the solutions we find, show that, even though we did not always agree, we did not give up on each other. we showed solidarity and we should continue to do so. everyone here knows that europe still faces a severe crisis, but the decisions that we take together will lead us step by step out of the crisis to a better future. i believe that we will be judged on our capacity to cooperate and find compromises. political leaders of today are judged by their results, not their intentions, and what european citizens expect from us is results. they expect solutions and we have tried to live up to that obligation over the last six months. we will continue to do that in the future so that europe, after the past gloom and pessimism, can again see an area of growth, progress and optimism. i believe that this is possible, but it is only possible if we are committed to doing it together. thank you very much for your cooperation. (applause)
in writing. six months ago the then newly elected danish prime minister helle thorning-schmidt presented the priorities of the danish presidency for the first half of 2012 to the european parliament. today, looking back at copenhagen, we can congratulate denmark on its successes in many areas, such as the eu budget, the union's multiannual financial framework for 2012-2020, climate policy and energy. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new legislation in the member states. as rapporteur for the report on the lawful use of orphan works, i can only speak of the positive experience gained from this cooperation. however, the recent moves by the danish presidency on the proposed schengen reform in the context of the possibility of reintroducing border controls by the member states have caused a great deal of stir in europe, in particular the proposal to deprive the parliament of its existing right to vote and participate in the relevant legislative procedure. the case will be further examined by the next presidency, but it has cast a shadow over the perception of the danish eu presidency's achievements. in conclusion, given that the danish presidency has been in a difficult political period in the union, linked to the economic crisis and the financial difficulties of the successive member states with which cyprus will now have to contend the balance of the copenhagen achievements seems positive.
mr president, important steps have been taken in the right direction and growth packages welcomed, and stabilisation measures for the euro debt crisis are coupling both flexibility and conditionality. the move towards banking union is to be welcomed, and the road map for genuine monetary union is a good starting point. however, closer integration should preserve the unity and integrity of the union of 27 and its single market. agreed initial measures – some would say half-measures – should evolve into full measures of banking, fiscal and political union. measures addressed to the eu of 17 only – some would say half-union solutions – should evolve and be open for all members, at least those which are willing. we should avoid being satisfied with half measures for a half union. we should not accept the logic of differentiation and a two-speed integration of the eu. eurozone ‘ins’ and future ‘ins’ are and should remain in the same boat. only those who opt out should practise derogations. advanced integration of 17 at the expense of the disintegration of 27 is not an acceptable solution. we need an inclusive, not exclusive, format. we should preserve and cherish a single institutional framework and avoid having 17 restricted institutions in parallel, separate for ‘ins’ and ‘pre-ins’, resulting in interinstitutional cleavages. we should avoid two-level solidarity, two parallel budgets and double macro-economic standards. collateral political damage done to the european project by half-europe anti-crisis measures would be great. there is huge potential for growth in the eu maintaining integral economic and political unity. unravelling this unity will not bring us closer to winning the battle with the crisis.
in writing. the continuing rise in unemployment is the most dramatic indicator of the difficulties facing europe. i therefore consider the elements of the council conclusions directly linked to the promotion of employment and entrepreneurship to be crucial. i consider the national employment plans to be an important step towards the effective implementation of reforms that will improve the situation on the labour market, especially with regard to young people. i believe that linking national strategies with the initiatives contained in the employment package offers a chance to improve the situation. i also think that further removal of barriers in the area of the single market, agreements on a fund to support social entrepreneurship and progress on the recognition of qualifications are very important. i also share the view that both the european union and the member states should make a determined effort to reduce administrative burdens and move from over-regulation to so-called smart regulation.
in writing. the june european council made ambitious declarations on reforming the institutional architecture of the euro area. however, the importance of the summit in strengthening the zone will only be shown by the determination to implement its decisions. member states supported the proposal to create a common banking supervision for the euro area. this is a very ambitious challenge, given both the time horizon set for the end of october 2012 and the prolonged negotiation process on the supervisory requirements for the banking sector under the crd4/crr package. the arrangements for the conditions for granting financial assistance to the member states are also important. among other things, it was decided that italian bonds would be bought back through the european rescue funds, but without the application of strict monitoring programmes. in addition, it was guaranteed that the loans from the funds to spain would not have the status of non-subordinated debt, which should increase the confidence and demand of private investors in the debt market. the spectacular declarations made at the summit caused financial markets to react enthusiastically, even though the level of rescue funds remained unchanged. i believe that the creation of a common supervisor and a bank recapitalisation fund will strengthen financial stability in the euro area. the new institutions could, in a crisis situation, follow the example of the us federal institutions following the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008, by rapidly recapitalising financial institutions in order to counteract the contagion effect.
mr. chairman, please! the successful functioning of the baltic sea macro-region and the strategy for the baltic sea macro-region bring tangible benefits to the union as a whole. this is achieved through the interaction of partners at national, regional and local levels, which allows for precise priorities and effective implementation. cooperation offers a number of opportunities in the field of cohesion policy, also promoting activities in the area of services and labour. this strategy has often allowed for the complementarity of investments to be increased, thereby stimulating the development of the macro-region. similarly, the mediterranean basin has enormous potential, but its vastness requires a coordinated policy from all the parties involved. the dynamics of such a macro-region can be a great driver of the european economy. in supporting the resolution, i am in favour of including macro-regional strategies in the budgetary planning process. the activities outside the scope of cohesion policy, such as cooperation with third countries, seem particularly relevant here. by drawing on the experience of the baltic macro-region, we will have a recipe for developing similar initiatives.
mr. chairman, please! innovation and the unhindered development of new technologies are possible on the basis of respect for intellectual property rights. their proper protection is essential to compete effectively on world markets and to enable european products to compete with their foreign counterparts. the cost of piracy to european businesses, estimated at over a quarter of a trillion euros a year, alone requires a strong response. in addition, the trade in counterfeit food, personal hygiene products and medicines can have serious consequences for the general public. recently, we were shocked by the use of road salt in food products. the report finds that counterfeit goods for private use are also in violation of the law. in this context, the definition of the activities related to the so-called small consignment is of key importance. the clarifications on the treatment of suspect goods from outside the community give hope for a more effective policy also in resolving disputes in the wto. i support the resolution.
in writing. − the 2009 directive (2009/138/ec) on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance provides a common regulatory framework for the european union as a whole for the risk management and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, which is appropriate to the level of development of modern financial markets. this directive is important from the point of view of the security and stability of the financial system, as it strengthens the supervisory framework for the insurance sector. it also introduces mechanisms to make the insurance sector better support the real economy by encouraging long-term investment. however, in january 2011 the need to update the directive arose as a result of a change in the institutional architecture of european supervision. therefore, the second consolidated directive contains provisions on the postponement of the date of transposition and the date of application of the 2009 directive. however, the complexity of the proposal for a second package directive means that the legislative process will not be completed before the date of application of directive 2009/138/ec. i support the proposal to change the date for transposition of the solvency ii directive, as this will avoid too burdensome legislative obligations for member states and will allow better preparation of the new system envisaged in the proposal for a second single directive. the complexity and economic importance of the proposed regulation also require that supervisors and insurance and reinsurance undertakings be given a sufficiently long period of time to prepare themselves to operate under the new regulatory conditions.
in writing. - i am positive about the european parliament's directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance. those rules are necessary for the safe and sound functioning of the insurance sector. it is important that insurance undertakings and their supervisors adopt a package guaranteeing the solvency of insurers. this will increase legal certainty for citizens and businesses. however, the date of entry into force of a new union directive on this matter cannot be postponed continuously. in my view, this directive should ultimately apply from 1 january 2014 in order to eliminate its temporary character.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to make saint-barthélemy the 26th overseas country and territory associated with the european union. i share the view that this change of status will allow saint-barthélemy to strengthen its relations with its regional partners, the acp countries, and will contribute to the expansion of the european model and values. i am convinced that by accepting the status of an overseas country and territory, saint-barthélemy is committing itself to a new mutual partnership with the european union. saint-barthélemy will retain the euro as its currency and its citizens will remain european citizens. it is very important that relations with the european union are maintained.
in writing. - i fully agree with the decision to change the status of the french overseas territory of saint-barthélemy. this change is in line with the needs and specificities of the island. saint-barthélemy will thus become the 26th overseas country and territory to be associated with the european union. by adopting the status of an overseas country and territory, the island will commit itself to a new mutual and lasting partnership with the european union, will maintain the euro as its currency and its citizens will remain european citizens. relations with the european union will be maintained.
in writing. − macro-regional strategies open up new perspectives for territorial cooperation projects based on cohesion policy and offer more effective solutions to the economic and environmental problems of the area. the positive effects of this strategy can be seen in the baltic sea macro-region, which was created in 2009. i think that the same should be true in southern europe. the mediterranean region is home to 500 million people, of whom only one third live in the european union. the european union is also committed to the development of a common policy on the mediterranean, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. i believe that the dynamics of development around the mediterranean can be a driving force for the whole european economy. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. − the introduction of macro-regional strategies offers many opportunities. they contribute to faster territorial development, increase social and economic cohesion, focus on the challenges and problems of the region and highlight the role of urban-rural links. they also represent an innovative form of interregional and transnational european cooperation, which contributes to greater coherence and coordination of policies across sectors, promotes job creation and ensures sustainable growth. finally, macro-regional strategies are about building fruitful and concrete relations in the eu's neighbourhood policy, sharing good practices and making progress based on territorial development. i am a strong supporter of the creation of new macro-regional strategies and i hope that in the near future new macro-regions will be created, including the carpathian euroregion. that is why i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr françois alphonse. thank you. thank you.
in writing. - i believe that the mediterranean countries and regions of europe should strengthen their cooperation and allow all partners in this area, which is essential for the future of europe, to participate. the macro-regional strategy is the most appropriate means of achieving this objective. the mediterranean basin has the same natural conditions and the whole area shares the same historical and cultural reality. there is a great deal of potential in the south of europe, but it cannot be exploited without coordination and a global perspective, made possible by the definition of a macro-regional strategy. the mediterranean area is not well organised within the eu. there is little progress in terms of cooperation and interconnection. the challenges facing the mediterranean political authorities will be much easier to define in a holistic way.
in writing. − the creation of a single european railway area undoubtedly opens up many opportunities across the eu, thanks to the harmonisation of member states' rules. i would like to thank all those involved in the preparation of the ep's position. in the context of the amendment to article 2 (2a) which i support, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the creation of exceptions to the general rule is not necessarily contrary to the european interest. all the eu institutions point to the need to create new jobs, help small and medium-sized enterprises, and create special conditions for areas with reduced competitiveness and peripheral areas. in this context, i would like to justify the vote on this report and the amendment in question. i do not understand why the idea of creating a unified railway area would have to cancel the activities of a smaller and at the same time profitable company providing numerous jobs in 4 regions of poland characterized by high unemployment.
in writing. - i support the idea of a single european railway area. however, both in the transport committee (replacing one of its members) and in the current plenary session, i voted in favour of a special derogation for the broad gauge steel line in poland. despite the mobilization of the polish delegation, this provision was rejected by the majority in parliament. the deepening of competition in a given area cannot take place without taking account of the disparities between countries and regions and without taking account of their social conditions.
in writing. − i am disappointed that the parliament has rejected amendment 12 (article 2 – paragraph 2a (new)). although this amendment had initially been supported by the ep, it was dropped in the trialogue. this may have negative consequences for the polish lhs (linia hutnicza szerokotorowa). this paragraph would have allowed the exemption of the lhs from certain provisions of the directive. the lhs operates a 400-kilometre long broad-gauge railway from the terminal in sławków in silesia to the polish-ukrainian border. without this amendment, the directive may be detrimental to the line’s operations. this issue cannot be ignored in the new directive.
in writing. − i strongly supported the directive on establishing a single european railway area (recast). unfortunately, however, the vote on the derogation for the polish linia hutnicza szerokotorowa line (lhs) was not in favour. the lhs is a 400-kilometre long broad-gauge railway from the terminal in sławkow in the upper silesian basin to the polish-ukrainian border. having a gauge other than the eu standard one it constitutes a special case for which the general provisions of the directive do not fit. since 6 % of the entire polish railway transport performance in 2011 (54 billion tonne-kilometres) were transported on the lhs, the lack of support from the members of the european parliament shown today will seriously harm its performance and thus weaken the second largest rail freight market in europe.
in writing. - the adoption of the amendment to the first railway package will make it possible to improve international rail transport. it is of the utmost importance that the railway market is regulated efficiently. this should benefit passengers and companies involved in the transport of goods and passengers. it is concerned, however, that the rejection of the provision exempting the polish broad-strait steelworks (lhs) from certain provisions of the directive. the lhs is the longest broad gauge railway line in the european union. it runs for 400 km from the polish-ukrainian border crossing in hrubieszow to the silesian railway station sławków lhs. the non-electrified single-track route with a russian track gauge is unusual on a union scale and the general package notes are not adapted to it. i regret that most meps have not shown an understanding of the specific nature of this railway. the final text of the revised railway package may have a negative impact on the functioning of lhs, which employs 1300 people. however, in view of the other provisions of the package, which i regard as positive, i have decided to vote in favour of the amendment. it is a document which is favourable to the development of the international rail transport market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document today, but i very much regret that the amendment to article 2 (2) tabled by the four political groups: epp, ecr, epp and gue/ngl on the exclusion of broad-gauge railways from the scope of the first railway package has been rejected. in order to ensure free competition on the railway market, we must bear in mind that in some member states there are self-financing railway lines which do not connect to the national and european network, are of regional importance and have a width different from that of the dominant network in the country concerned. the need to apply all the provisions of the directive to those separate lines would impose disproportionate and irrational burdens and would distort and misrepresent the purpose for which they were built. while we are talking about deregulation and the pursuit of a growth europe, we cannot, through the reckless implementation of legislation, impede the functioning of well-functioning businesses, which represent the real, and often the only, added value in the poor regions of the eu.
in writing. - i spoke in the plenary debate, expressing my reservations about the recommendations on a single railway area in the european union. unfortunately, my vote, as well as that of several other polish meps, did not win the support of the majority of the parliament. the recommendations that have been put to the vote, in my view, are an attempt to put the railway market in europe in order in a mechanical way. i think it is wrong not to take into account the specificities of countries such as poland, where the general introduction of competition on the rails could in effect lead to the collapse of the polish state railways. we need more time and more resources to adapt to modern rail transport solutions. competition can and should be encouraged, but only if all players in the market have the same opportunities to compete. with persistent disparities, especially in the quality of the rolling stock, the weaker partner always loses.
in writing. - pkp linia hutnicza szerokotorowa operates in the railway transport sector and is also the infrastructure manager of the almost 400 km section of the railway line. pkp lhs's capital expenditure in the period 2001-2010 amounted to pln 386,3 million. lhs spent pln 421,8 million on renovations during this period. these funds were from the company's own resources, which enabled it to adapt successfully to changing market conditions. the lhs ctr, which as a line is directly connected to non-eu countries and their broadband transport system, should be excluded from the rules on the single railway area. i support maintaining the 12th amendment to article 2 adopted last november and therefore maintaining the integrated operations of lhs. this amendment was adopted by a vote of two to one in parliament and by the same vote in the commission. unfortunately, parliament succumbed to pressure from the commission and the council and rejected the amendment. i therefore oppose the whole report, which could deepen the collapse of rail transport in some countries of the european union.
in writing. − at any given time, an average of around 45 000 vehicles are in breach of eu tachograph rules. it is easy to imagine the consequences of such a state of affairs. failure to respect minimum breaks and rest periods and maximum driving times contributes to an increase in the number of tired drivers and poses a risk to road safety. i believe that effective solutions should be developed at eu and member state level. member states should undertake to enforce this regulation more strictly. at eu level, the harmonisation of the training of control officers throughout europe and the need to validate the relevant technical skills by passing an examination appear to be very important. i support this report.
in writing. − since 1969, the european union has been establishing social legislation in the field of road transport to improve road safety and the working conditions of drivers and to ensure fair competition between transport companies. at the same time, the union has developed a comprehensive strategy for the control and verification of compliance with social legislation relating to road transport. however, social rules are still too often broken and the tachograph system is not effective enough. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the commission should present a harmonised interpretation of regulation no 561/2006 and the necessary technical specifications so that tachographs are not only monitoring devices but also facilitate compliance by drivers and hauliers.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (eec) no 3821/85 on recording equipment in road transport and amending regulation (ec) no 561/2006 of the european parliament and the council (com(2011)0451 – c7-0205/2011 – 2011/0196(cod)). in doing so i hope to continue and even improve upon the safety for travellers on the road. as we all know road transportation is a vital asset to the european market and allows all of us to move freely from one member state to the next. it is important that we address any or all safety issues that may infringe on transportation. i feel that a revised training program for the member states as well as the use of technology to enforce the drive time provisions will allow for safer and more efficient transport. the unfair gains made by those who violate the drive time provision do to the lack of technology need to stop. i support the rapporteur in her statement, that without complete cooperation by the member states this regulation too will fall short of its goal of protecting road safety.
in writing. − intellectual property law has recently become a hot topic as a priority of the europe 2020 strategy. on 24 may 2011, the european commission adopted a communication entitled 'a single market for intellectual property rights'. this was the start of initiatives that include a new regulation on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities, to replace the existing regulation 1383/2003/ec later this year. it's an important topic, and in light of the acta fight, it's become very popular in the public. the fight against counterfeiting is becoming increasingly difficult, with the annual cost to european businesses of piracy and counterfeit goods estimated at €250 billion. between 2009 and 2010, the number of counterfeit goods doubled from 43 572 to 79 112 cases registered by customs at the eu border. the increase in illegal shipments was particularly marked, as 200% of the shipments were linked to online sales, of which more than 69% contained counterfeit medicines that were so dangerous to the health of consumers. the problem is real and must be tackled at the border to prevent these goods from entering the european market. i support the idea of an accelerated procedure enabling customs authorities to prevent the movement of these goods if they are suspected of being counterfeit, but excluding sanctions for consumers and travellers and their luggage and packages for the exclusive use of consumers weighing less than 2 kg. consumers should be protected, but they should also be able to access commercial offers freely without fear of accidental infringement. the commission's proposal is a good first step towards protecting european intellectual property and a sensible alternative to acta.
in writing. − it is high time to take significant action to protect intellectual property in the field of trademarks. we already have a lot of legislation in this area, so the changes proposed should take into account the complexity of the current situation. the protection of intellectual property rights is of particular importance in the context of the far-reaching opening up of the european market and the recognition of innovation as the main means of economic development. counterfeit products are a grey area effect they are not subject to customs controls or do not meet the applicable standards for the required quality standards and therefore health and safety criteria. protecting intellectual property rights and reducing counterfeiting will help level the playing field, increase employment and tax revenues. in international trade, special arrangements are required for the consignment of medicinal products. intellectual property also has a broader formula which is difficult to understand in conjunction with the free common market. further action and solutions are needed in this regard. protecting intellectual property rights is not just about fighting counterfeiting. all of this requires a public information campaign.
in writing. − water is a natural resource, and its abundance may be a future strength for a country. fresh water is scarce, and many people are already struggling to access it. and yet it is essential for both functioning and development. the european union should therefore do its utmost to develop the most effective 'plan for protecting europe's water resources'. a policy of sound management of these resources is key to the continent's sustainable development and food security. investing in new water extraction and recovery technologies is also an investment in world peace. because unfortunately, water could be another resource that causes wars to break out. it is equally important to educate european citizens from an early age on how to conserve and manage water. the european union should therefore do its utmost to promote all investments and initiatives aimed at safeguarding water resources.
in writing. − water is undoubtedly the most important of all public goods and despite the fact that europe collects only 13% of its available water resources overall, the geographical distribution of resources is very uneven and many european countries and regions suffer from severe water scarcity. europe's and the world's freshwater resources are at risk if they are not managed sustainably. factors such as urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution have a negative impact on the availability and quality of safe water resources. i support the publication of the 'european water plan' planned for november 2012. i believe that europe should take a clear position on this issue also in the context of the upcoming sustainable development conference rio+20. remember, over 800 million people still do not have access to safe drinking water. however, i voted against this report because of the fact that it mentions the serious threat to both surface and groundwater caused by shale gas exploration and extraction. i don't agree with that.
in writing. − water has become a strategic resource in recent years, and access to its sources is of geostrategic importance. in the future, water wars in some parts of the world cannot be ruled out. tensions are already building up between israel, palestine and turkey in syria. it therefore welcomes the eu's water resolution. in poland, scientists say many regions will have water problems, which is why good water management is so important. i hope that in the light of these resolutions the european commission will agree to allocate more funds to hydraulic engineering projects, especially those with dual use.
in writing. - mr president, the 112 service is an excellent tool in emergency situations. it is available, or at least should be, on all telephone equipment in every member state. however, victims of road accidents are often unable to inform the relevant services themselves. the ecall system has therefore been designed to provide the most relevant information on the accident by itself as a vehicle equipment. unfortunately, the work on implementing the system, which has been going on for almost a decade, is still not producing results. i therefore fully support the acceleration of both the administrative and technological aspects of the full deployment of ecall in the union as soon as possible. i believe it will significantly improve the efficiency of the emergency services by reducing the risk of loss of life and health of those injured. it will also allow for efficient reorganisation of traffic in the area of the accident. this service must be free of charge, public and available to all vehicles, regardless of brand. the system will also bring administrative benefits in terms of reducing the medical costs of the consequences of accidents and the risk of secondary collisions hampering road capacity. i support the resolution.
in writing. - today i voted in favour of a report calling for the mandatory installation of ecall in new vehicles by car manufacturers from 2015. i think this is a good idea, because reducing the time taken for medical aid to arrive at the scene of a car accident is extremely important and will help save the lives of many europeans, poles and opoleans.
in writing. − the benefits of ecall are to reduce the medical consequences of an accident, to reduce the risk of another accident in the same place and to reduce the impact of an accident on road traffic. the golden hour principle means that if emergency services are notified immediately of an accident and know its location, they can arrive quickly, reducing the risk of death and serious injury. for this system to work, we will need cooperation between vehicle manufacturers, mobile network operators and member states. the latter will be required to upgrade their accident reporting points to handle ecall notifications. let us not forget that this will involve considerable expense. another important element that needs to be carefully worked out is the protection of personal data. we have rightly emphasised that the ecall system must not allow the vehicle to be traced under any circumstances, which means that it must be a sleeping system until the alarm is triggered. ecall services shall not be used in any case to monitor or analyse the movements of a person or to determine his or her whereabouts if there has been no accident. i voted for this report.
in writing. − the more effective implementation of the eu-wide ecall service will improve road safety. the motor vehicles would have a system for automatically alerting the emergency services, which is particularly important when the accident participants lose consciousness. the rapid arrival of qualified and well-equipped aid would help to reduce the still high number of fatalities. in my view, however, we must be concerned about the lack of progress in the voluntary implementation of this service by individual member states, as is the case with the delays in the smooth functioning of the european emergency number 112, on which the ecall project in question is to be based. the commission, parliament and the council need to take action to establish such a public service across the eu, provided that it is functional, low-cost and accessible to all vehicle owners. at the same time, it is necessary to adopt legal arrangements so that the creation of an eu-wide ecall system does not in any way lead to a restriction of the civil rights of vehicle users (e.g. by being traceable) or to a breach of the guarantees of protection of their personal data.
in writing. − ensuring europe's investment competitiveness should be one of the priorities of the european institutions, especially in the face of the current crisis. increasing investment (especially foreign direct investment) would stimulate member states' economies and reduce the negative effects of fiscal consolidation. i therefore support initiatives to continue funding cohesion policy, which increases competitiveness and attracts investment to less developed regions. facilitating access to finance for smes is a key element in increasing investment levels. this is not only about fighting credit default, but also about providing alternative ways for smes to raise capital, such as european venture capital funds. however, the regulation of such funds should aim to introduce requirements that would reduce investment risk. boosting research and innovation is also crucial for increasing investment in this area of the eu, which has a particular potential, mainly due to its skilled workforce. however, the introduction of the unitary european patent, while good in principle, can also have negative consequences. the introduction of such a unitary patent would mean a drastic increase in the number of patents in all member states, could significantly restrict entrepreneurs and, consequently, reduce investment. therefore, i think that there is a need for further debate on this matter.
in writing. − despite the steady rise in youth unemployment, there is no visible action to change this situation. there is a lack of specific support programmes for young people, not only at european level, but also of concrete and effective national solutions. europe is facing an ageing population, which will be a major social and economic problem in a few years. low economic growth and high labour costs are limiting investment in this part of europe. i think we should react quickly to such alarming signals. the attractiveness of the european market should be enhanced, as regions have a great untapped potential, which is often overlooked. cohesion policy should be the key to solving macroeconomic and regional problems, thereby boosting the competitiveness of regions, economic growth and the much-needed creation of new jobs, especially for young people. i think that the report by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou on the attractiveness of investing in europe is a good one and that is why i voted in favour of it. thank you, sir.
in writing. − the most serious tax problems facing europe in a crossborder context are unequal treatment, double taxation and the difficulty of applying for a tax refund and obtaining information on foreign tax laws. i agree with the rapporteur that tax coordination should be an integral part of growth strategies and that she supports the emphasis on tax reforms in the context of the euro plus pact. also on corporate taxation, i believe that a common consolidated corporate tax base will help to address some of the serious fiscal obstacles to growth in the single market that are disincentives to invest in europe. therefore, any strategy to make the eu more attractive to foreign investors should be based on an assessment of achievements and shortcomings in relation to the completion of the internal market.
in writing. - i am pleased with the outcome of today's vote on the report on 'trade aspects of the eastern partnership'. during my long political career, i have had the opportunity to engage in cross-border cooperation in poland's relations with belarus and ukraine, and to observe mutual benefits not only of a political and economic nature, but also if not above all of a social nature. economic rapprochement with the eastern partnership countries through the creation of free trade areas can, in the long term, effectively implement the principles of eu foreign policy, including contributing to the consolidation of the european model of democracy or the economy. however, building closer economic relations to the benefit of both parties should not be unconditional. the development of specific recommendations for the countries neighbouring the eu mentioned in the document will thus allow us to implement a comprehensive aid programme and to build lasting relations with a reliable partner with whom we have clearly defined expectations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the prospect of a dcfta with the eu is the main incentive for the partner countries to continue with reforms. in recent years, moldova has undergone an extraordinary reform process and made significant progress towards european integration. i would also like to mention georgia, one of the fastest reforming economies in the world. the situation of georgia is very specific in the context of the dcfta negotiations and certain requirements and regulations set by the european commission. georgians (often quite rightly) have gotten rid of many of the control institutions that they perceived as a relic of the soviet system. what the eu calls standards-setting institutions often seem to georgians to be a corrupt legacy of communism. the eu is belarus' second largest trading partner after russia. it is true that our eastern neighbour has unquestioned potential. i am convinced that its citizens deserve to belong to the european family of democratic and free market states. unfortunately, minsk is moving further and further away from the eu in terms of political and economic standards. the economic model of belarus is also lacking (80% of enterprises are state-owned). therefore, when we talk about belarus in the context of the trade dimension of the eastern partnership, the deepened and comprehensive free trade area is a tool that unfortunately has to be postponed.
in writing. −the report on the trade aspects of the eastern partnership addresses important international issues, highlighting efforts to strengthen the eastern partnership countries. i personally believe that trade agreements, in addition to imposing obligations on the parties, also bring many benefits. by stimulating economic growth, they provide benefits to consumers, businesses and workers, while also stimulating institutional reforms, which in turn lead to the modernisation of countries and regions. as part of the eu-ukraine delegation, i would like to stress that ukraine is europe's largest trading partner among the eastern partnership countries and that the efforts of ukrainian society and authorities to redress any socio-political inequalities should be supported. that is why i voted in favour of the report by miloslav ransdorf. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i voted for mr ransdorf's report because it emphasises the principle of 'more for more' in the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries. at the same time, the report stressed that russia had damaged the eu's trade negotiations with the east, which would be detrimental to these countries in the future. i agree with that assessment. i believe that the fact that the union is the main export partner of the eastern partnership countries should be put to good use. however, it is worth noting that effective economic integration of the eastern partners with the eu is not possible without political and social reforms, without the participation of civil society in the decision-making process.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. few debates and discussions have generated as much public interest and tension as the one about acta. as we know, this issue has not only sparked debates and discussions, but also massive street protests in many countries in europe and around the world. it is significant that the protesters were dominated by young people, people who are particularly sensitive to the threat to fundamental rights, including the right to information, freedom and privacy. the sense of danger and the feelings that emerged from the discussion of this document were also influenced by the difficult situation of the younger generation, the social context, mass unemployment and low wages. the history we are witnessing has also exposed the dramatic lack of trust of citizens in the democratically elected authorities in individual countries, but also in european institutions. the biggest upset was not only the content of the agreement itself, but also the manner and circumstances of its implementation, as well as the lack of any real public consultation. this has caused understandable suspicion and anger, especially among young people. we should learn from this bitter lesson and re-engage with the real, serious problem of intellectual property rights, which no one has underestimated. the paradox is that the way forward and to change this situation, to correct it, is to reject this document in tomorrow's vote.
mr. chairman, please! the debate in the european parliament is the culmination of a debate that has been held across europe and also in poland. the discussions were attended by people who are interested in the civilizational and cultural role of the internet. people are not against acta because they're against trademark protection or against intellectual property protection. what motivates us is the imbalance that acta creates between the rights of creators and producers on the one hand and the rights of internet users on the other. i and my colleagues from the civic platform will vote against acta because we do not believe that cultural goods are simply a product, like any other, that can only be bought by those who can afford it. we oppose acta because we see the incredibly important role of the internet, which is not just to provide information, but also to create access to cultural goods for everyone and, based on that, to build identity and a sense of community. the immediate rejection of acta without delay is for us the first step towards changing the protection of intellectual property on the internet. our goal is to expand what we call "fair use" so that anyone who shares files with their friends privately, not for commercial purposes, doesn't have to worry about the consequences. we're asking for your help in changing this law. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. for me, those who protested against acta were protesting against the imbalance that had been created between the rights of producers and creators and the rights of internet users. this is their protest. they're not fighting trademark protection or intellectual property protection. they want to make cultural heritage accessible to everyone, privately and not commercially, so that no one has to worry about it.
mr. chairman, please! i'm listening to this debate, and i don't know if we're actually talking about the same thing. it's that simple, the history of acta is a history of arrogance, of disregard, of secret negotiations, of requests to reveal the course of those negotiations and of refusal every time. it's also a story of rebellion, because when the internet took to the streets, something began that these gentlemen behind closed doors had not foreseen. and then the story of fear of this street started, and as fear began, so did the flight from acta. governments started to back off , saying we never really wanted to, we didn't know, we thought it was about sneakers, not freedom, about sneakers that are fake. so i want to warn all those who are going to try to change the freedom of the internet through the back door: don't do it, because it doesn't pay. such a rebellion could happen again. if you want to talk smart about freedom on the internet, do it openly. acta will die an orphan, and all the problems will remain.
mr. chairman, please! there was talk that we can't give in to the pressure of the streets, and i believe that it was these citizens who elected us to parliament. we represent their interests. if millions of young people are rioting against new, incomprehensible regulations, we cannot ignore these protests. i believe that there is a need for clear regulations to protect intellectual property rights at international level, to protect creators from 'counterfeiting powers' like china, which is the source of 60% of illegal goods. but that's not what acta is about. instead, it introduces misleading records that also mobilized three million citizens to petition acta to the committee i work for. i am also surprised at the comments made by commissioner de gucht, who seems to be missing the co-legislator in parliament by promising to ignore our negative decision. i would therefore point out that it is the european parliament which appoints and dismisses the european commission. i hope we can send acta ad acta tomorrow.
in writing. the acta treats three important issues: 1) the commercial right to use a trademark; 2) the rights of internet users to move around in the digital environment (article 27); 3) the rights of creators to benefit financially from the marketing of their works. while the first and third questions are not particularly problematic, although they require clarification, article 27 (1) to (8) can raise many doubts, in particular paragraph 4 which requires an internet service provider to infringe the right to protection of personal data. point 6 is unacceptable, since it refers to the circumvention of an 'effective technical measure' and of devices which 'mainly', but not exclusively, serve that purpose by means of the 'computer programmes' contained therein. i would like to recall that in 2005 the ep rejected at second reading the report of the legal affairs committee on the 'patentability of computer-aided inventions'. this means that computer programs cannot be patented and that the big computer companies cannot prevent our european computer scientists from using their equipment to develop new, innovative computer programs, also for use on the internet. this would inhibit innovation, for example in new it applications. the obvious issue of counterfeiting needs to be separated from acta and copyright and protection on the internet needs to be addressed in detail, but with the condition that the internet is open source.
in writing. should intellectual property be protected? i certainly did. does acta provide this in a proper way? no, i'm not going. the protection of intellectual property is of great importance to europe. knowledge is an area where we can still enjoy a competitive advantage on a global scale. it's worth remembering. that doesn't mean we have to accept every project, every deal. it is true that acta has been referred by the european commission to the european court of justice. apart from the legal assessment, as the european parliament we have the right to a political assessment. we can reject acta. after all, even a positive verdict on the ets will not change the threats that many europeans fear. by rejecting acta, we can close this chapter and start a new one. i don't believe that acta can be fixed. better to start over than to start over on something that can't be fixed. what a waste of time. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. the rapid development of new technologies, including the development of the internet, requires new regulation at european level. and that's obvious to all of us. however, the attempt to combine the fight against piracy and counterfeiting with the preservation of internet freedom, as presented in the acta document, is resisted by many circles. i'm going to vote against acta. i believe that intellectual property rights should be protected. we also need to regulate certain things on the internet. but it has to be done in a way that is transparent and acceptable to different social groups. nor can it be done by adding an unrelated article to the whole treaty, which deals mainly with counterfeiting. certainly the issues that acta was trying to solve need to be solved, but not in the way that this document was trying to do. the work on the unresolved issues should continue, but the proposals should be consulted not only with lawyers but also with various social groups. the new negotiated document will certainly be accepted by the european parliament.
madam president! in march, we in parliament recognised that supporting employment growth is a key priority under the europe 2020 strategy. i share this view, particularly as regards support for the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and for young people. the commission's proposal is moving in that direction and is therefore satisfactory. we must remember that the union budget is a very effective and real investment instrument which is, especially at the present time, very necessary to stimulate economic growth and create new jobs in all the member states. i shall therefore support a project along these lines, especially one which opposes the proposals to reduce the amount of money for employment-enhancing policies. i do not like that in the current situation, the funds for the progres programme, which was supposed to help reduce unemployment, especially among young people, or promote gender equality and combat discrimination, are to be reduced. budgeting is our future. if we design it to give people - and the most creative of them, young people - the tools to develop, to be independent, to find a job, to find a new way of life, it will help us all to overcome the crisis on the principle: "don't give fish to those in need, but fish".
madam president! the budget of the european union is the main expression of solidarity with and between all 27 member states of the european union. the european union budget is an instrument that not only serves to offset the disparities in the level of prosperity of the inhabitants of europe's regions, but above all to stimulate investment, competitiveness and job creation in the european union. we have ideas to stimulate economic growth in the european union. these tools already exist, just to mention the structural funds, the 7th framework programme, the competitiveness and innovation programme and the lifelong learning programme. their implementation not only serves the beneficiaries themselves, but also helps the european union as a whole to meet the challenges of the 21st century, in particular those related to global competition and the maintenance and creation of jobs. i therefore believe that we should guarantee an appropriate level of spending in next year's budget, which will above all allow the commitments already made in the past to be met and will help the process of overcoming the economic crisis. i would like to stress in detail that we cannot allow the growing disparity between commitments and payments in the eu budget to continue. this difference would, in my view, be an expression of the european union's inability to fulfil its previous commitments. the increase in payment appropriations of 6.8% compared to 2012 is, in my view, the minimum that both the council and the european parliament should accept. we cannot focus solely on saving the present, on passing emergency solutions. we must think - and i believe we are obliged to do so - about the future long-term development of the european union.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the union budget should be an instrument of investment and solidarity, a means of stimulating growth and economic recovery. i therefore believe that reducing expenditure, particularly on policies that promote growth and employment, is detrimental to the european economy. it is worth noting that in order to combat the effects of the crisis, many member states also increased their budgets in 2012. i also find the increase in the level of repayment obligations, the so-called ral, worrying. this is the result of the decision to limit the payments made under the annual budgetary procedure. the planned cumulation of payments expected in 2013 may further exacerbate the budgetary difficulties. the reduction in payment appropriations is a serious threat to the implementation of cohesion policy, which should play a key role in economic recovery and enable the european union to return to growth.
question asked by raising the blue card i have a question: do you think that the access of eu citizens to good, cheap medicine has become a way of pressuring israel to change its policy so that this policy is accepted? is it moral to put the problem, the great political problem of peace in the middle east, in this way in relation to what is technical, commercial, as the commissioner has said? is it moral to wait so many months for this decision and delay so long by obstruction the vote that is finally due to take place?
mr. chairman, please! it's another trade deal that becomes hostage to the political situation in a country that's a partner of the european union. the israeli-palestinian conflict is much older than the history of independent israel, and if we imagine that the european union can use this agreement as an instrument which can have a positive impact on the development of palestinian-israeli relations, we are mistaken or commit a great sin of pride. it is the policy of both sides, the palestinian authority (not just ordinary palestinians) but also israel - i am talking about the settlements that are being built in the occupied territories, which we do not recognize - that makes this conflict unresolved, this conflict is still being fueled. and i have to admit that this is a big problem for all those - like me - who wish the state of israel well, who are aware of how important it is as a place, as a state, as a democratic body, which is doing very well in the middle east, and at the same time, how in great danger it is. but i would rather expect all those who are critical of the acaa to come up with a grand, broad plan that we, together with the united states, could present as the european union to both sides, so that they would be encouraged to talk. it is known that the acaa is not that, but the non-acceptance of the acaa solely and exclusively to punish the state of israel, will actually in consequence punish the europeans who will not be able to benefit from the good, great quality and cheap generic medicines that are produced in israel, not in the occupied territories. that's why i'm calling on everyone to vote for the acaa, for this deal.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank rapporteur mr capoulas santos for his work in ensuring that farmers will receive the next tranches of direct payments they so badly need in 2013 without any obstacles. and i want to express the hope that this 2013 will really be the last year in which there is such a great inequality in the distribution of direct payments. almost a decade ago, ten new member states joined the european union. farmers in these countries have accepted that they will have to operate in an unequal competitive environment for ten years, but this period was to end for these ten countries in 2013, and for romania and bulgaria a little later. i am confident that, as the rapporteur has done in this case, so in his main report - the most important report under consideration in this parliament's term of office, on the system of direct payments after 2014 - you will do, as we all do, to eliminate discrimination and inequalities in direct payments between member states.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome this wise report and i would like to take this opportunity to say that in the future budgetary perspective we must put an end to the two-speed europe that will become a reality if we do not equalize subsidies for all countries. we are talking about fighting the budget crisis and the need for solidarity, and indeed poorer countries, like slovakia and others, have also been contributing to supporting the countries of southern europe in difficulty. we cannot continue this policy now, because it would be unfair, incomprehensible and contrary to the idea of solidarity on which europe is built.
the year 2013 is a transitional year as it ends the financial perspective 2007-13 but is also linked to the next financial perspective 2014-2020. i support the inclusion of those farms in the new member states that receive more than eur 5 000 in support, given the generally lower level of payments in those member states. at the same time, i am in favour of other transitional measures adopted in this regulation also aiming at ensuring a level playing field between farmers in the new countries (the twelve) and the old countries (the fifteen). given that there will be no more sectoral support under the national complementary direct payments in 2013 and that the proposed pattern of direct support after 2013 does not imply a matching of direct payments, these disparities will continue to exist.
mr. chairman, please! i too am very pleased that a compromise has been reached and i thank the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, for having prepared a good solution. this will enable us to continue to modulate and support farmers in the old eu countries as well. this debate and this discussion show that we all consider direct payments to be a very important instrument for supporting farmers. but today, when farmers operate on a single market and sell their goods throughout the european union at similar prices, and also buy the means of production at the same prices, when farmers in france pay exactly the same as in poland for tractors, for agricultural production equipment, for fertilisers, it seems unjustified to maintain direct subsidies at different levels. and this is not just the case for the member states of the 'old' european union, but also for the 'new' european union. the differences are still present in the old eu countries, while other direct payments are received by farmers in france, germany, poland and lithuania. in the new financial perspective after 2014, these disparities should be levelled out.
in writing. i come from a region where farms account for over 60% of the land area and for many people, agricultural production is the main and often the only source of income. i therefore feel obliged to call for fair treatment of farmers in all member states. however, the biggest concern is the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy for 2014-2020, in which the european commission has proposed a gradual alignment of direct support. however, if we accept the pace of equalization of the differences in the level of subsidies between member states, which is too slow in my view, we can expect full equalization only in a few decades, which will have a detrimental effect on the competitiveness and income of farmers in mainly the new member states, including poland. we are talking today about bringing the legislative procedures into line with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, but let us not forget that equal and fair treatment of all citizens, regardless of their nationality, is one of the fundamental provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. despite cap financial support, unemployment in rural areas is growing much faster than in urban areas, especially in eastern poland, including my home region of podkarpacie. this situation shows that effective reform of the cap is necessary. the equalization of direct payments is an important issue for polish farmers. if we are talking about the common market, about the competitiveness of european agriculture, there cannot be such a large disparity in subsidies between individual countries, or even regions. the eu average is eur 271 per hectare, as shown by eu figures, and in poland it is currently eur 214. in the region, i am often asked what subsidies will be given to polish farmers, how to reduce bureaucracy, how to better target payments to stimulate competition in agriculture and reduce unemployment. it is likely that from 2014 these disparities will be slightly smaller; the premium will increase to around 223-231 euros, but the polish farmer will still receive more than 20 percent less than the european average. the question remains, when will the expected changes occur? thank you, sir.
on behalf of the s&d group. i'm not going to let you do this. this is a very important debate and we're making very important decisions. these are purely technical solutions which we are discussing after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, but we are on the eve of the reform of the common agricultural policy and our determination as to which solutions will be included in the delegated acts and which in the implementing acts will depend on how we implement the common agricultural policy in the future and what we will discuss - whether on the technical or on the merits. and the european parliament would like to discuss specific solutions. today, in the previous debate, we have shown that we are on the side of the farmers, that we are fighting for their interests, for direct payments and for a common agricultural policy. we're your allies. the european parliament's strong role is not only to defend the lisbon treaty, but above all to defend the interests of farmers. it is also worth noting that it is not possible to calculate the division between delegated and implementing acts. if the commissioner is saying that we have already added some amendments to the delegated acts, i would point out that this is not a political decision, but a strictly legal decision. such a decision may always be appealed to the court of justice. and this will mean that if solutions are applied which are not in line with the lisbon treaty, the whole legislative package will be suspended and will cease to function, and then farmers will not be able to benefit from the common agricultural policy, from the many solutions. i therefore call for us to return to the original solutions proposed by the european commission, which were well prepared and in accordance with the letter of the law. then, as a result of the council's intervention, the state withdrew from a number of solutions, and that's a pity.
the lisbon treaty increases the powers of the european parliament, which requires certain adjustments. this is inter alia to identify in the present regulations the implementing and delegated powers conferred on the commission pursuant to articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. adjustment to the lisbon treaty is certainly not a technical matter. it's really a power struggle between three institutions. examples include discussions on the application of article 43.3 of the treaty or the division between implementing and delegated acts. i believe that all the relevant issues concerning the cap should be included in the basic act, so that the legislators, namely parliament and the council, can have a direct influence on the shape of the provisions. in fact, to see the whole picture of the cap reform, one must know the shape of the delegated and implementing acts that the commission is to present. the devil's in the details. i therefore call on the european commission to present the outlines of these acts as soon as possible. finally, i would like to say that meps should be better informed and involved in the negotiation process with the council and the commission. now it's the rapporteur and the counter-rapporteurs who decide everything in the trialogue. we need more transparency. the tripartite talks should be open to interested members of the committee on agriculture, without, of course, any voting rights.
in writing. direct payments are one of the most important support elements of the common agricultural policy, which represents a significant part of the eu budget, and it is therefore necessary to ensure that these funds are used appropriately. the modulation aims to increase the efficiency of the financing of the agricultural sector - by reducing direct payments, more funds will be allocated to support under pillar ii, allowing for an increase in the number of rural development programmes. i support the adjustment of the modulation to a lower level in the 10 new member states, as this leads to a gradual equalisation of the rates of these payments, which is crucial to guarantee a level playing field on the eu agricultural market. direct payments help farmers, but they also benefit consumers. they not only keep food prices more stable, but they also keep them lower. the subsidies should actually go to the farmers, not to the landowners, because that is the only way they will be properly used. the establishment of a crisis reserve for 2014-2020 to safeguard the food sector is a crucial issue. financial discipline is essential in the years ahead, but it should be noted that the protection of the food sector is a priority for eu policy. therefore, i believe that the planned reserve should be maintained at least at the current level.
mr president, mr commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. i would like to draw the president's attention to the fact that although cyprus, like poland, joined the european union at the same time, the term 'new member state' is never used in relation to cyprus. the new member states are more like our countries behind the berlin wall. you are with us in the group, but you are never treated as new, which is a sure chance to show some bridge between the old members and the rest of central and eastern europe. this is a very important political element and we count on the states to be sensitive to this issue. taking very seriously your statements on the question of european cohesion, i would like, as the author of the report on one of the funds, to see this translated into the language of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. we hope that the cypriot presidency will counteract the division of the member states into friends of cohesion and friends of better spending. friends of consistency are friends of better spending. there is no contradiction here, it is an artificial division that must be avoided. but we should all strive to spend better. this means, among other things, greater interdependence and complementarity, the complementarity of european policies, so as not to duplicate things, create new administrations and duplicate ideas. it's a better way to spend it. i therefore hope that the cypriot presidency will be a friend of cohesion and therefore a friend of better spending.
mr. chairman, please! cyprus is taking over the presidency at a time when many of europe's key debates are entering a decisive phase. the most serious challenge is to bring the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework to a successful conclusion. i fully share the presidency's view that their aim should be to adopt a fair and effective budget that supports growth and employment, particularly the employment of young people. this requires adequate funding for policies that stimulate economic growth and competitiveness, in particular cohesion policy and research and innovation policy. as a representative of the maritime region, i also welcome the presidency's ambitious plans to stimulate an integrated maritime policy. i would like to conclude by wishing cyprus a successful presidency.
mr. chairman, please! a better europe is the motto of the cypriot presidency, which will last six months. a better europe is the dream of all eu citizens. they are concerned, however, about the looming financial crisis, the worst of which, according to the president of the council, should be behind us. the fact is that the situation is not so, and i fear that, as in the case of previous presidencies, most of the priorities put forward by cyprus will be overshadowed by the need to save failing states. we want to believe the assurances of the cypriot presidency spokesman that the problems of the cypriot banks will not affect the presidency. however, this turbulence may make it difficult to reach an agreement on the union's multiannual budget for the period 2014-2020. i believe that the cypriot authorities have done the right thing by putting on the agenda their national priority of developing maritime policy and security at sea. we understand this perfectly well, because the eu's raft is now carrying 27 countries, all of whom share a common destiny, and if it capsizes, they will all be wet and some will drown. that is why we should all be interested in the stability of the cypriot presidency.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious to everyone that cyprus is holding the presidency of the council at a very difficult time. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations with cyprus. nicosia has recently requested financial assistance to rescue its banking system. so it's another eurozone country that's having economic difficulties. although the latest european council managed to develop some mechanisms to stabilise the monetary union, the risk of further bankruptcies remains real. this is extremely important as cypriot politicians have been given the role of mediator in the negotiations on the future multiannual financial framework. although nicosia has joined the group of the so-called friends of cohesion policy, there is concern that the aid granted will make it more susceptible to the arguments of the net contributors. i therefore wanted to appeal to the cypriot politicians to try to play a genuine role as a neutral mediator despite their internal problems. the shape of the 2014-2020 budget will determine the future of the union. if we allow national egoism to dominate our thinking about the community, we will not survive this crisis. only together, by investing our common money wisely, can we maintain our position in the global economy. and that responsibility now lies with the politicians of a small island in the mediterranean, and that is why we have to keep our fingers crossed for them.
in writing. "a better europe for citizens" is the excellent message of the cypriot presidency. it is a great way to get on the eu agenda and lay the foundations for the european year of citizens 2013. the union's development depends on its acceptance by its citizens. the union is a community of european citizens, which is sometimes forgotten. in this context, the implementation of the social dimension of the europe 2020 strategy and addressing societal challenges will be crucial to achieving inclusive growth. it is important to develop and implement actions related to youth employment and affecting the daily lives of citizens. more than half of eu citizens are women. gender equality is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. unfortunately, progress in achieving gender equality has been extremely slow. there are still significant differences between men and women in earnings and employment opportunities. women are second-class citizens in the labour market. they are more affected by poverty. i hope that the cypriot presidency will focus on these problems. the only priority of the polish-danish-cypriot presidency is violence against women. i hope that the cypriot presidency will make up for its neglect and contribute to the development of an eu-wide strategy to combat violence against women and support the european parliament in its efforts to declare 2015 the european year against violence against women.
in writing. cyprus took over the presidency of the council on 1 july, thus ending the trio of poland denmark cyprus. 'towards a better europe' is the motto of this presidency, which means, as mr demetris chistofias, president of cyprus, explained, 'to strive for a european union that is more important to its citizens and to the world'. we must be aware that this will be a difficult time for this small country, because of the challenges it faces. the eu's main priorities for this presidency are the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy, economic governance in times of crisis, the common european asylum system, the single market and the enlargement package. the current presidency is likely to see a number of disputes, for example between payers and net beneficiaries, over the coherent direction of eu spending. the final agreement on the eu budget for the next seven years would be a definite success of the cypriot presidency. in discussing this subject, we cannot forget the very difficult relationship between cyprus and turkey, which is a candidate for membership of the european union. since 1974, when turkey occupied the turkish cypriot-inhabited northern part of cyprus and sponsored the declaration of independence of the turkish republic of northern cyprus, relations between the two countries have been very tense. i wish cyprus well and i would like to echo the words of mr tusk, prime minister, that cyprus can count on the help of poland and the polish experts who coordinated the polish presidency in the second half of 2011.
mr. chairman, please! the enlargement of free trade areas through association treaties is one of the priorities of european policy. given the growing importance of the eastern partnership countries, it is particularly important to focus our attention on this area, especially as we have recently put more emphasis on relations with the south in the light of developments in north africa. free trade is a key tool for europeanization and an impetus for economic reforms, which are often difficult. in supporting the resolution, i am in favour of increasing the union's involvement in relations with its eastern neighbours. trade integration requires a great deal of effort on our part and on the part of the associated countries, but in the long run it will bring tangible benefits to all. it has also had a significant impact on the development of civil societies and the raising of living standards in this part of europe. the accession of ukraine and moldova to the energy community treaty is a key security issue.
mr. chairman, please! as a representative of a region that is key to poland's agricultural industry, i support all measures that stimulate the development of rural areas. this report will form the basis for next year's negotiations on the reform of the common agricultural policy. parliament's consistent position will further ensure that delegated acts in the field of agriculture are used wherever possible. it confers implementing powers on the commission for the submission and approval of rural development programmes. in addition, it introduces several significant simplifications to reduce administrative burdens, such as reducing the number of annual progress reports and summary reports for rural development. facilitation of cross compliance checks and modification of the rules for the use of advisory services were also proposed. i also fully agree with the rapporteur's negative view of the commission's attempt to eliminate support for producer groups in the fruit and vegetable sector.
mr. chairman, please! this report was prepared in response to the problems encountered by citizens trying to open a bank account in another member state. the objective is, however, to harmonise rules and to facilitate the use of banking services. however, the solutions presented deviate from the nature of the original proposal, which focused on improving access to basic payment services in the union. the report recommends that the commission should move away from the start of work on a draft directive on the services sector, which is due to start early next year. many other recommendations in the report will in fact pose a direct or indirect threat to the union banking sector. it is debatable whether payment service providers should bear the costs of information campaigns to raise awareness of the right to access the new product, especially as they bear the heavy costs of training their staff. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. as part of a package of four technical dossiers aligning the existing cap rules with the lisbon treaty, this dossier deals with the rural development programme of the cap and is significant because it focuses on the issue of delegated or implementing acts and how they should be applied to the different provisions included in the existing regulation. as with most agriculture dossiers i am satisfied that the european parliament has sought to ensure that delegated acts and therefore the ordinary legislative procedure are used in as many cases as possible.
in writing. − i was pleased to see the large majority with which this vote passed. one common market should see truly common rules in agriculture. in keeping with the spirit of equality and solidarity, the product of the labour of one farmer should be held in the same esteem as that of another. i call upon all actors in the european union to accelerate progress towards the equal treatment of eu workers in the agricultural sector and look forward keenly to the day when disparities in treatment across the union will be eliminated.
in writing. − my group was in favour of the committee's approach of supporting the use of delegated acts in as many instances as possible. as we know, the recent trilogues were inconclusive with no agreement possible, largely due to a number of horizontal issues which crossed through all four main pieces of legislation. for this reason, the rapporteur decided to go to plenary to highlight the parliament's position and outstanding issues will be negotiated as part of the full cap reform trilogues that will take place next year. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - it is difficult to talk about the financing of the common agricultural policy in a period when the financial framework of the european union is not established. it is easy to see that we are discussing the future of the common agricultural policy without knowing the future budget of the union. this does not prevent us from giving farmers new tasks. we impose on them new responsibilities, such as environmental responsibilities, and we don't even know how much money farmers will get to meet those challenges. to plan agricultural policy wisely, we need to know the budget of the european union, because at the moment we are not talking about a real common agricultural policy, but about nothing. in view of the complexity of the situation, the financing of the common agricultural policy is of the utmost importance and this is an indisputable fact. i therefore decided to support this document by voting in favour.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy is an ineffective and harmful tool, used primarily to subsidize rich large-scale farms. for years, its policies have violated the community's basic law on the equality of its member countries. the basic principle of the cap, which is that rich farmers in the west receive more than twice as much subsidy as their colleagues in central and eastern europe, should therefore be changed. only the equalization of the surcharge will be the breakthrough that several million citizens are waiting for and a new opening that will allow for a better and more efficient use of the available funds. i 'm looking forward to that change too .
in writing. − as we well know, the issue on how decisions authorising certain products and substances are taken (by means of delegated or implementing acts) is a horizontal one. in case of organic farming products the authorisation procedure is even more general, because there is no application by individual operators. authorisations are done in a general manner by the commission upon a request of a member state. the commission has proposed in article 16(1) and 21(1) to authorise these substances by means of delegated acts. although parliament supported this position, the council has changed these provisions to implementing acts. the position of the european parliament in the third reading on art. 16 and 21 was to move the list of substances into annexes of the basic act which will then be modified by the ordinary legislative procedure. the ecr is in favour of the committee's approach of supporting the use of delegated acts in as many instances as possible. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i note the near consensus (95%) with which this vote passed. i cannot but conclude that european deputies share my strong support for european agriculture and wish to see the sector continue to thrive.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the current legislative procedure, known as comitology, has been replaced by a system of delegated and implementing acts. the european commission may adopt non-legislative acts of minor importance, supplementing or modifying existing legal acts by means of delegated acts. implementing acts, on the other hand, apply to legislation which must be implemented in all member states under uniform conditions. for us as meps, the european parliament's involvement in decision-making and monitoring of the implementation of legislation is of the utmost importance. we have more privileges in this case through delegated acts, where we can set out the conditions under which the ec can implement the law (in the case of implementing acts, the ep is in a sense 'removed' from further work after the decision has been taken). i therefore believe that we should aim to qualify as many dossiers as possible as delegated acts, which will allow us to continue to have a view and control over the projects adopted. this, of course, involves an additional administrative burden and may require an increase in the ep's 'labour force', i.e. the employment of legal experts and other staff who can take care of the adaptation of our daily work to the new procedures.
in writing. - mr president, russia's accession to the world trade organisation opens up new opportunities for the union's relations with that country. however, it is likely that the nature of the existing bilateral agreements will change as russia becomes a much more open country in terms of foreign exchange of services. it will also give community service providers greater access to the russian market, which is very much the case for poland as a neighbour. welcomes the commitment of the russian government to lower barriers to trade and investment in key service sectors, such as full access to information technology and construction services. the services of land and water transport were also opened to foreigners. facilitation of intra-corporate mobility is also important. i support this and the other resolutions on the multilateral package governing russia's accession to the wto. i hope that the russian market will be fully liberalised in the future.
in writing. − hopefully, as a result of accession to the wto, russia will become a country that is relatively open to foreign services; nevertheless, today major restrictions on imports of services and the establishment of foreign service providers remain in place in russia. the eu-russia agreement regarding the preservation of commitments on trade in services contained in the current eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement should be viewed in the light of the new legal framework arising from russia’s recent accession to the wto. russia's commitments to reduce market access restrictions and put an end to almost all national treatment may have potential benefits for the european union. for this reason, the eu should continue to monitor how russia improves its business environment. i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. - the eu exports $9 billion worth of car parts to russia. investors opening automotive plants in russia in the initial period (this is the infant industry) are periodically exempted from the general wto rules due to high initial costs and lack of competitiveness. this means that the russian party which is a wto member may apply protective tariffs on a transitional basis. however, excessive extension of this period and the use of economies of scale by russian producers, for example by expanding the market to kazakhstan and belarus, may lead to a decrease in imports from the union and, consequently, to the delocalisation of production. in order to prevent this, the transitional agreement provided for a compensatory mechanism whereby russia, when importing these parts and assemblies from the union, would reduce the duty rate by the amount of any decrease in these imports when they exceed 3% of certain thresholds. on the other hand, the factories were or are still subsidised by the state, which may artificially increase their competitiveness. hence the need for a compensatory mechanism. this is also a signal to union producers to invest in innovation or, for example, to increase the said economies of scale during the transition period. the agreement is beneficial for eu industry and that is why i voted in favour of it. it would be good if the eu customs zone could follow russia's example and defend the eu economy more effectively.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that acta is an attempt to solve the real problems of the global economy. the scale of copyright infringement is enormous and no one can deny it. european companies are also losing out, and no one is really able to estimate the real costs of this. but i voted against acta because the agreement is not a good solution to this problem. the potential risks to civil liberties far outweigh the benefits of the proposed agreement. no one knows how her individual posts will be interpreted, and no one can guarantee that they will not affect individual internet users. this is so important that the european parliament should stand guard over civil rights and freedoms - we should bear this in mind when voting on this agreement. if the commission and the governments of certain member states feel that the interests of european businesses must be protected, it seems that they should find a new instrument. but above all, they must guarantee not only the effective participation of the european parliament but also of the civil society groups concerned in the future negotiations. it should be borne in mind that the main source of the shortcomings of the agreement is the way in which it was drawn up. if we had tried to work out a compromise from the outset that took into account the interests of all parties, we would have today a global agreement protecting our economy, rather than a pan-european discussion about the threat to civil liberties.
in writing. − i am proud of the result of the vote of the european parliament to reject acta. coming from a country that has known only too well the brutal tyranny of state oppression, censorship and control i well appreciate the vital importance and beauty of free speech. the internet serves as a wonderful forum to promote free speech. by facilitating the exchange of opinions between citizens, the internet promotes debate and brings us closer to the ideal of a democratic society of citizens who feel their voice is heard. it is for this reason that dictatorial regimes around the world fear it so and try to limit its advance. few other issues in recent years have provoked as much indignation among european citizens as this attempt to limit their hard-won right to speak freely. for the first time, the parliament has stood up and blocked an international agreement negotiated by the commission and the member states. i can think of no better or more appropriate role for the parliament than to act as an instrument of democratic control over a frequently faceless and distant executive. long may the parliament continue to be responsive to european citizens and to defend their freedoms.
in writing. - mr. chairman, i'm not sure. i voted against acta because i believe it created a disproportion between the rights of producers and creators and the rights of internet users. it's important that no one who shares files for private purposes or among their own friends feels threatened and therefore fears the consequences of this sharing. i therefore believe that we should respond firmly at the level of the european parliament to any attempt to do this.
in writing. - the trade agreement to combat the trade in counterfeit goods has been controversial from the outset. the final agreement contains many ambiguous provisions, formulated in a very general way, which can be interpreted broadly. acta was created in a manner that deviated from the standards of democratic legislative procedure. the aim of the agreement was to improve the enforcement of intellectual property rights at international level, but the agreement as proposed by the european commission raises serious concerns about the respect of civil liberties. this agreement threatens consumer privacy, undermines innovation and slows down the flow of information. i am not against the idea of protecting intellectual property, but the system of protection of property should be more balanced between the interests of both creators and consumers. i do not think acta is the right solution to the problem, and that is why i voted against the agreement.
in writing. - the acta case is one of the turning points in the history of the european parliament. for the first time in history, young citizens understood how important the european parliament is. the spontaneous grassroots movement against acta is a generational event that has breathed new life into democracy. the participants understood that acta could only be blocked at european level. they understood that blocking acta at the level of any member state would not de facto block the entry into force of the provisions of the agreement. such a decision could only have been effectively taken at the level of the european parliament. the acta case should be read with caution. first, i fully agree with david martin, acta's rapporteur, that 'a law negotiated and enforced in secret is generally a bad law'. therefore, the next negotiations should be as open as possible. second, we need to adapt copyright to the internet age. a law that a whole generation doesn't understand is bound to fail sooner or later. it is better that it be earlier and that, in creating new solutions, we take care of both the creators and the recipients of culture. as a member of the s&d group, i opposed acta from the beginning. i therefore voted against ratification of the agreement.
in writing. i voted against acta because it restricts the individual's civil liberties. it is incompatible with the eu charter of fundamental rights. furthermore, acta is a far too drastic method of enforcing property rights, not to mention the right to freedom on the web. i don't think piracy should be encouraged, but the wording of the acta is very questionable. it is a very general law, but not very specific, and its message is vague, as the lawyers themselves confirm. this project is a form of silent control of internet users, a violation of the right to freedom of speech. blocking legitimate and valuable content on the internet is not a guarantee of protection against piracy. the acta provisions can be interpreted in different ways, which is why they're so controversial. it's said to be a form of surveillance of the internet and its users. the internet has always been a place of free exchange of ideas, and acta wants to restrict that right. acta not only means control of the internet, but it also hits our economy, limiting the ability of creative activity to flourish not only online, but also in science and technology. if acta were to go into effect, we would have thousands of people suspected of illegal activities online, where some of them would be innocent and unnecessarily prosecuted. the loss of independence that the internet gives would be detrimental to the creativity of society. i call for a balanced policy on copyright protection and the fight against the trade in counterfeit goods, also paying attention to the right to civil liberties.
in writing. - acta is a highly controversial international agreement the opposition to it, which we have seen for a few months, only justifies fears of attempts to censor the internet. the main concerns about the agreement are that there is a risk of 'filtering' freedom and democracy online. it should be noted that on the one hand acta would serve to protect intellectual property, and on the other hand it would severely restrict freedom on the internet. that is why i have decided to vote against today's vote.
in writing. - acta is another attempt to police european society, to muzzle it and to restrict the sphere of freedom. i don't agree with her notes. i think they're just too far-reaching attempts to regulate our daily lives. article 27.4 of the acta requires internet service providers to block accounts and to provide the police with the details of those who violate the agreement. similar provisions are found in article 23.1 where the previously unspecified commercial term is used. we cannot allow such a broad agreement, so significantly restrictive of rights, to come into force. i also disagree with the counterfeit-war argument. the main producers today are china, india and pakistan, and ironically, these countries have not signed acta. that's why i voted today for internet freedom, i voted for the voice of european citizens, i voted against acta. five parliamentary committees expressed their negative opinion, so today's overwhelming majority against was not only a confirmation of previous decisions, but also the final end of this agreement.
in writing. − after long discussions and negotiations on farmers' subsidies, a number of compromise solutions should be agreed to allow for further direct support to farmers. however, i regret that there has been no agreement to date on the equalization of the level of subsidies in the various countries of the union. the current direct payment imbalances may become even more pronounced in the new financial perspective after 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i am particularly happy about the fact that we have noted the proposal to increase appropriations under the european neighbourhood instrument. it is absolutely imperative that we address the needs of countries facing major political and economic changes in our neighbourhood. i welcome the focus on the eastern partnership. i agree with colleagues that the commission’s reporting on the application of the ‘more for more’ principle is somewhat insufficient. the ec should indeed develop clear criteria for how this policy is to be implemented.
in writing. − according to the world organisation for animal health, [...] animal welfare is achieved when an animal is ... healthy, safe and well-nourished, free from discomfort and has the opportunity to express its inner state and when it is free from pain, fear or anxiety. the vast majority of people who handle animals in the context of a business are farmers. in order to ensure the proper conditions for animals, many requirements must therefore be taken into account, such as veterinary care, adequate shelter, nutrition, proper treatment or humane slaughter. in business, a trade-off must be found between animal welfare and the efficiency and profitability of production. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. in the union legislation, there is still a wide diversity of rules at member state level, resulting in unequal levels of animal welfare. uniform rules within the eu and ensuring that third countries from which we import products of animal origin comply with similar rules are essential requirements to improve the current situation. the european commission also fails to take into account the impact of animal welfare on public health, whereas proper animal welfare can help, for example, to reduce the spread of diseases.
in writing. − many of my constituents contact me on a regular basis to share their concerns about animal welfare. i am pleased to see the parliament responding to their concerns and fulfilling its role as the embodiment of the will of the people. i hope to see the furthering of the humane treatment of animals in the two years which remain of this mandate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015. it is good that we have adopted such an important document, which provides a basis for protecting and improving animal welfare. now we need to integrate animal welfare into other eu policies, i.e. consumer policy, research programmes, the cap. unfortunately, the post-2013 agricultural budget offers little in the way of opportunities. rural development programmes for 2014-2020 must include significant animal welfare measures. without sufficient financial support, there will be no effective implementation. i call on the commission to submit proposals to limit the transport of farmed animals for slaughter to eight hours. more than a million eu citizens have signed a petition to this effect. the welfare of pets is also important. although the population of dogs and cats in the union is estimated at around 100 million animals, there is no community legislation on their welfare. following the 2010 council conclusions on the welfare of cats and dogs and the resolution adopted today, i stress the need to promote the welfare of pets by ensuring minimum standards for their treatment, protection, mandatory registration and electronic identification. in this context , the ratification by the eu and its member states of the european convention on the protection of the rights of animals kept as pets is also essential .
in writing. − animal welfare is widely accepted by the societies of the member states. european farmers are also doing everything they can to create good living and development conditions for the animals that are their wealth, their income. the exceptions to this rule in europe are the exception. it is worth noting that the treaty on the functioning of the eu, based on the lisbon treaty, defines animals as sentient beings in article 13 and calls for respect for animal welfare in eu legislation. in raising animal welfare standards in europe, attention should also be paid to the fact that we often import animal products from third countries without checking whether animal welfare rules have been respected. we cannot allow ourselves to be in a situation where we have the highest standards in the world and lose our competitiveness with the rest of the world. this is particularly important in the light of the progressive liberalisation of trade. the negative impact of ill-considered animal welfare measures is illustrated by the dramatic increase in egg prices in europe following the introduction of enriched cages for laying hens. in the future, the cost of new regulation in this area should also be taken into account more. a new approach to animal welfare in europe is needed. the need for information, education and education in respect for animals. to this end, better enforcement of the relevant legislation is necessary. the reformed cap must also promote animal welfare more, in line with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − the complexity of animal welfare legislation creates legal uncertainty. only healthy animal husbandry can prevent the spread of disease. on 19 june, the european commission adopted a resolution stressing that animal welfare legislation should be implemented and strictly enforced throughout the eu. it is of the utmost importance that the law on this area be regulated as soon as possible. that is why i have voted in favour of the animal protection and welfare strategy.
in writing. - i am against the latest ideas for dealing with the eurozone crisis. the common denominator is the acceleration of integration: political german ideas of federalisation or economic eurobonds, banking union, etc. these concepts are based not on a realistic assessment of the causes and course of the crisis, but on euro-enthusiastic doctrinary thinking. the anti-crisis measures taken so far have only postponed the inevitable collapse of the euro area. the situation in greece is proof of this. as a result of the anti-crisis measures, we have a further huge increase in the greek budget debt and an economic recession. the huge sums that are going to be on greece's account have been primarily in private banks that have had a bad credit policy. doctrinal proposals to deepen integration will only accelerate the crisis and cause an uncontrolled catastrophe of the eurozone, which will threaten the foundations of european integration. we call on the commission and the council once again to prepare a real anti-crisis strategy.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate mr färm on a very interesting report. i agree with the rapporteur that multimodal transport corridors are crucial for economic growth and economic contacts with external partners. in view of the high cost of transport and energy investments, encouraging greater private sector involvement and the use of return instruments are of key importance. the concept of design bonds therefore seems interesting and worthy of further analysis. i am confident that the pilot phase of this solution will provide a lot of additional information, especially on the response of the private sector. i hope that these new investment opportunities will help to reduce the disparities between european regions, which i believe is crucial for the economic development and competitiveness of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i come from a country that joined the european union quite recently, in 2004. at that time, in the referendum, the poles decided to vote for european unity, for membership in the european union, just like the peoples of all the other countries that joined the european union, because the majority made decisions precisely through such a popular universal vote. in our countries today, and in poland in particular, there is still a high level of acceptance of the european union, much higher than in the countries of the old union. one of the main reasons for this, and why the referendum decided to join the european union, was the prospect of free movement across europe without borders, without passports, which is realized by the schengen treaty. our role as representatives of the people, as people elected by direct vote, is to protect the values that are close to the people, the things that they really care about in the european union. the european parliament must be involved in all decisions concerning the future of schengen and the possible reintroduction of internal borders. these are the issues that our voters care about, and it is our duty to protect and defend the values that are dear to them, and it is the role of governments to ensure security without compromising those basic values that are important to the citizens of europe.
i wanted to ask mrs malmström to announce a zero tolerance programme for schengen violations. what we have seen over the last year and a half is the slow erosion of these foundations and of what is the cornerstone of the union. different countries, under different pretexts, are starting to introduce temporary, temporary, hidden, overt controls, and we are focusing primarily on fiscal union, we are talking about the euro, the crisis, the banking union and we are not giving - in my opinion - enough weight to these next steps taken by different countries. so i urge you to have a zero tolerance policy, because that is the only way we can prevent further erosion of the schengen system.
in writing. the schengen agreement, concluded 27 years ago, is one of the key achievements of our community as a whole and one that is most felt by eu citizens. the ease of travel is extremely important and highly appreciated by the citizens of our continent. therefore, the right of free movement of persons should in no circumstances be restricted or exempted from its observance. nor should the debate on the future of the agreement ignore the views of the european parliament, which represents the citizens of europe - 62% of whom regard the schengen agreement as the greatest achievement of the european union. we cannot destroy the spirit of community, especially at a time of crisis in the sense of european unity. open borders are a symbol we should protect. the case of road checks at the dutch/belgian border and czech buses at the german border is the best example of the need to advance and deepen the work on further developing the schengen area rules. these actions should be implemented with the participation of all the institutions of the european union. the council should therefore return to the path of cooperation with meps and the european commission on the regulation on the new schengen evaluation mechanism. in my view, this is the only way to ensure the proper functioning of the schengen area and to respect the rights of citizens in this area.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this debate on the reform of the european court of justice should only serve as a kind of contribution to a broader view of the problems facing the european judiciary. we should not end today, but rather continue the debate on this subject. when we started working on the ets and the european commission's proposals, we had much higher hopes and expectations. we also hoped that this work would be relatively easy and that there would be no differences between institutions. the changes to the organisation of the work of the ets and the appointment of temporary judges to the civil service tribunal of the european union are undoubtedly a step towards increasing the efficiency of the work of the union courts. however, a key element of this reform was to be the proposal to increase the number of judges in the general court. while removing this issue from the record will allow us to make all the uncontroversial changes, i believe this fundamental issue will return to us soon. the council will not escape this issue, it will have to take it up again and decide with parliament to resolve these key issues. it is no secret that proceedings before the eu courts are becoming unbearably long, mainly because of the disproportionate increase in the number of cases brought in relation to the staffing capacity of the eu courts. we are making law on an ever wider scale, another country is becoming a member of the european union, we are considering as a community the accession to the european convention on human rights this will also increase the number of cases we are considering. the right to a resolution of a dispute within a reasonable time is a right of every citizen, already guaranteed in every member state. we must give the eu courts the instruments and the human resources they need to meet their real needs. at present, increasing the burden on the eu administration is very unpopular in the member states - we understand that. however, if the union is faced with paying high damages for litigation that takes too long, it will certainly cost the european taxpayer and the european institutions more than a dozen judges. i am, however, pleased that we have reached a compromise and i thank alexander thein for the excellent work he has done on this dossier.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. minister, please! i have had the pleasure of working for the last year and a half on the european parliament's report on the eu-georgia association agreement. i have visited georgia several times, held several dozen meetings with representatives of both the government and opposition parties, with the ombudsman, with representatives of the media, with representatives of ngos, both those who work closely with the government and those who work closely with the current opposition - both parliamentary and non-parliamentary. so let me give you my point of view, but let me remind you first of the two paragraphs of our november resolution, which was adopted by over 90% of the european parliament. in point m of the preamble we write: the substantial progress made by georgia in democratic reforms, including in strengthening democratic institutions, in particular the office of the ombudsman, fighting corruption, reforming the judiciary, as well as economic and liberalisation reforms, should be welcomed; georgia should be congratulated on the reduction in the overall crime rate; and in point o of the preamble we write: the georgian government should of course be called upon to engage more in constructive political dialogue with opposition forces and to further shape democratic conditions for freedom of expression, and in particular access to political audiences for all political groups. i think we would all agree with this statement today, that georgia is praised - not only by us politicians, but also by ngos like transparency international - for fighting corruption and building a democratic system. the last elections that took place in georgia, the local elections, were very well received by all observers, even the opposition said that there were no major tensions and that they were held in accordance with international standards. today we're going to return to that discussion. the question is, what happened that we have to go back to discussing georgia? well, i think that one thing that the minister was kind enough to say just now has come to pass. well, we have, you could say, a new entity, or rather a new leader of the opposition in georgia, a man who has billions of dollars, a budget and money greater than the budget of the georgian state. and unfortunately, these funds are not being used in the right way. i can tell you about my experience over the last few months, but i think most of us have the same experience. we've been bombarded for months, several times a week, with something called the georgia media tracker, which is a set of information that shows that president saakashvili is a monster and that everything that the ruling party in georgia is doing is wrong, unacceptable, and so on. i took the time to examine the situation and see why this is happening. well, it turns out that mr. ivanishvili has hired 18 american, british, german, french lobbying firms to work for him. i think one thing that needs to be emphasized based on our democratic experience is that the existence and functioning of oligarchs in politics doesn't end well. and i'd like to dedicate this to the opposition in georgia.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have long wondered why this debate is being held today in the european parliament. we have just received a good report from mr liska, in which we praised the determination and consistency of the democratic standards in georgia, and i wonder what has happened since then. in my opinion, nothing has happened, on the contrary, the georgian authorities continue to reform the country, introduce democratic standards, reform the media law, the electoral law. in the 'doing business' ranking, georgia ranks high in terms of openness to business and the fight against corruption. let's all think about why we're having this debate today. we should rather help georgia, support it, support the georgian authorities in what they are doing in their own country in terms of getting closer to the european union, because that is the kind of georgia we need as the european union. at the same time, let's look at the behavior of the opposition, and ask ourselves whether it is in the interest of the opposition to have a proud sovereign georgia, or a country that is in the orbit of russian influence.
mr. chairman, please! in the face of the kremlin's confrontational policy towards tbilisi, our engagement is essential to keep georgia on the path of transformation towards economic development and peaceful coexistence. we welcome the deepening democratization of the authorities' activities, including in particular the constitutional changes that strengthen the liberalisation of electoral law. it is in the union's interest to protect the country from increasing russian infiltration and to prevent moscow's attempts to interfere in its internal affairs, such as the financing of pro-russian opposition groups. the georgian policy has consistently shown a strong and determined pro-euro-atlantic orientation. a few months ago we adopted a resolution calling on brussels to start work immediately on the creation of a comprehensive free trade area and to maintain the pace of the association negotiations. i strongly advocate intensifying these efforts. the easing of visa policies towards eastern partnership countries should also be urgently considered. the problem remains the russian occupation of parts of georgian territory. additionally, the russians have moved their annual military exercises in july to september and october, when the georgian elections will take place. that's why our diplomatic engagement with tbilisi is necessary. we must also do everything we can to ensure that the russians withdraw from the occupied territories.
mr. chairman, please! we are all shocked by what is happening in syria. the key to solving or avoiding further casualties is, of course, to act under the auspices of the un security council. so it's important to be clear that the impasse we're seeing is the result of russia and china blocking effective action. it seems that the european union should put more emphasis on this aspect. we cannot ignore the fact that it is moscow that can influence the immediate end to the massacre of civilians. so far, these efforts have been ineffective. the russian foreign minister is marking some action, referring to the libyan case, so the only effective international pressure on moscow to start concrete actions to prevent the killings in syria can be effective.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank members for all their interventions. i will not tire you with an assessment of how serious the situation is and so on, because i have said that in this chamber many times. i also share with many of you the frustration sometimes of not having enough energy and determination to move things forward. to some extent this reflects the reality not only of the conference which we attended but also of many of the decisions we are taking in our daily lives. what i would like to touch on first, which many of you have commented on, is the process itself. the process did not start in rio; i could say it did not even finish there. it started a year ago, in new york, negotiations were long and tiring, and there were many sessions, so basically what happened in rio was the final stage when the host country, brazil, took the process into its hands. the way they handled it is of course their decision and it is true, as some have said, that it was decided before the majority of the ministers, especially the leaders of the countries, arrived. that does not make it true that it was the technical experts who decided. that is not true, because they were the ones who were consulting their capitals at every turn, but it is true that some of the work we had invested in preparing good strong partnerships prior to the meeting, could not materialise at the meeting because there was simply no chance for us to meet with many of the delegations. whether we played our cards well or not, as you said, mr eickhout, is something i shall have to review some time over the summer, but it is true that when we have to be critical of ourselves we always lose too much time in defining our own positions and do not have enough time to share those positions with our partners. that has been a weak link in the european union approach at all the conferences which i have attended. i personally believe that what we reached in rio was as far as one could go and that we have to understand that not everybody thinks the way we do in the european union, that they have different interests, different views on development. i can tell you that when i visited brazil, for example, a few months before the conference, the discussion i had about the concept of the green economy, which is pretty well understood here, is far from a concept which everybody would stand behind. i think acknowledging that concept in the paper, in as black-and-white a form as it appears today, was quite a major achievement – provided of course that the next steps, which should follow, ultimately materialise. some of you mentioned that the leaders – or some of them – were not present. quite a lot actually were present. i would just like to remind you that the presence of leaders does not guarantee success. they were in copenhagen as you know, while not many of them were in nagoya or in durban, where we achieved quite a lot. i think their presence gives an important political message, but on the other hand it would not have guaranteed that the document would be more ambitious or would go further than the one which has emerged from the negotiations now. it was mentioned by mr gerbrandy that the eu was isolated. it is really an interesting thing to look at the international stage and see that we, who are in the deepest crisis economically and financially, are basically the leaders in the field when it comes to sustainability. that is a fact and i think it is a fact of which we should be proud but i would say that we were not as isolated as it looks if you only look at the outcome of the document. there are many countries with whom we had spoken before and with whom we are still in contact, who pretty much share our views and objectives. i think it would be really important, after rio, for us to continue working with them, to deepen our relations, to find the friends, the partnerships which are absolutely necessary if we want to push forward some of the agendas to which we have subscribed here in the document agreed in rio. one thing which i find is really a major breakthrough in the philosophy is the concept of green economics. in many of what i would regard as solid analyses after rio this is seen as probably the most major breakthrough and way ahead. green capital accounting, corporate sustainability reporting beyond gdp: if we focus on that and if we get a solid background on which we can build political decisions, then we can really move things forward. you do not take into account what you do not measure is an absolute fact in politics. i think it is important that we start to focus more on the basics of the green economy, on the fact that we should take natural capital into consideration. so the role of business was honestly quite impressive, as was the role of civil society there. i have never seen such power in one place and, believe me, if they invested the money which they invested to be there, they knew why they were investing it. this is an important message from their side also and we should acknowledge that instead of criticising their presence. working with civil society is for me something on which i absolutely have to concentrate in the future. rio was different from nagoya, it was different from durban, it was much broader, and it was different from rio+20. i would not go as far as saying that rio+20 was a step backwards. i think that is not a fair assessment. it is a step in the right direction, especially because at rio 92 the top-down and bottom-up diverged, they went in two different directions. at rio 2012, actually for the first time, they went together, but we have to work on the top-down, on the political part, where we did not reach as far as we would have wanted to reach. on the means of implementation, at all those conferences, as you know – like it or not – there is a bit of a divide between developed countries and developing countries. often developing countries expect more of the carrot and more of the direct development aid. i think again that we should be quite proud of what europe has done there. we have again committed to 0.7%. i would not like to remind you that we are currently on 0.41% of gdp. the figure of 0.7% by 2005 is a serious additional amount of money because 0.41% is approximately eur 53 billion. i will leave you to do the calculations, but this was the commitment which was made by all european countries, and i think it is important that we keep that commitment alive. on the other hand, with the means of implementation we have to be clear that there is no public money which could turn countries, including ourselves, from the current economic model to a green economic model. so you need private financing as well as public financing at home. for example, not supporting the paragraph on removing environmentally harmful subsidies, which we were very much pushing for, and requesting more official development aid, does not really make sense. it is not consistent. so all incentives which you send into the systems need to be consistent. that is why i think we should insist on the broader picture regarding the means of implementation. on unep, i can promise you that we will continue working with africa and acp countries. quite a strong power actually emerged and we believe that this is the way in which we should continue. however, in rio it was simply impossible to reach that, because there were such clear statements from some strong partners in negotiations that they were not ready to support that in rio, and that it was impossible to go that far. in conclusion, what should we do? i think we should simply continue work in the european union. we should simply try to identify our partners, use all possible institutions, hooks, conventions and continue our work. basically, without everybody on board there will be no green economy. the green economy, by definition, is about economic stakeholders and the business sector. without them on board we will not change the reality from the top down. we have to work with them and we have to use the positive powers which evolved there. i think we are basically talking about the very essence of the question of changing the production and consumption models. this is absolutely something where you need bottom-up and top-down approaches and where you need practically everybody on board. so, as i have mentioned already to some friends who were in rio, i came from rio not with any kind of bad conscience but, yes, with some bad feelings. in order to conquer those feelings, i think the only way is to work hard in the european union to deliver what we have committed ourselves to many times. to be honest, i have seen recent opinion polls showing where our public is placing its attention. even pushing the agenda which we are all subscribed to will not be easy, but we should basically sometimes ‘walk the talk’ ourselves. i think that is the most we can do at the present time. basically we should share the responsibility with the rest of the world and build trust. i really feel that this is necessary because, at these big conferences, the real question is always the lack of trust. we should work on that. even if we have the feeling that we are not reaching as far as we should and that the urgency of the situation is much more pressing than anybody thinks, we should continue working with the rest of the world. we should do so, because many of those questions simply have no proper answer if we do not get everybody on board. as i said at the beginning, i do not think that the destiny of the success of rio has yet been defined but, if we create a strong partnership with your help, i think we can make it better.
in writing. over two weeks ago, the rio earth summit ended. it was another summit that didn't produce any meaningful results. in the face of economic problems and the employment crisis, it is naive to think that the leaders of china, india or the us will agree with the eu's eco-optimistic slogans. today, the european community, under the dictates of the environmentalists and the left, has set itself ambitious targets for reducing emissions. however, it is not the union, which produces only 11% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, but the above-mentioned countries that are responsible for most of the world's industrial emissions and consumption of natural resources. china and the united states became the world's largest importers of oil and the world's most energy-intensive economies. both countries have long been strongly opposed to any attempt to reduce emissions. the union is thus left alone with its ambitious objectives. unilateral restrictions adopted by the community are increasingly weighing on the member states. social costs are rising, and the competitiveness of the eu economy and the profitability of production are declining. therefore, out of concern for the environment and the future of europe, we should do everything we can to encourage the international community to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this time without us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the risks associated with the imposition of cites obligations on flag states in relation to the chartering of vessels are setting a precedent with a major impact on the functioning of the fishing industry. attention should be paid to the delegation of supervision, control and responsibility to member states, which place this responsibility on the shipowners. the rules of the cites convention, which are of the utmost importance for endangered species of animals and plants, must not be undermined in any way and must be strictly respected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. it should be noted that the entire maritime industry is suffering from enormous costs as a result of over-regulation, which affects its functioning. for example, the directive of the european parliament and of the council on shipowners' insurance against maritime claims, the protocol amending the convention on the limitation of liability for maritime claims, the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the liability of passenger carriers on maritime infringements, the international convention on the establishment of a pollution compensation fund are just a few examples of the vast amount of regulation affecting the maritime industry. the validity of the convention cannot be questioned, but attention must be paid to the competitiveness and the impact of these regulations on the price of the product. the commission cannot aim to liberalise markets by reducing the duty on imported products while at the same time multiplying the union regulations which make it more difficult for european production to be produced at cost. i would like to ask the commission once again to promote european production and the european labour market through appropriate regulation.
mr. chairman, please! on behalf of the initiators, i would like to thank you for your support of this written declaration. developmental education is an important thing, and it's good that you've supported it. thank you very much to all the people and organisations who were involved in this initiative.
in writing. − in view of the partial renewal of the composition of the court of justice and the consequent urgent need to find a solution which would enable the civil service tribunal to function properly, i considered it necessary to adopt the proposed amendments to the statute concerning the organisation of the tribunal and the civil service tribunal. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. - since the accession of the new member states the european court of justice is faced with a problem of limited staff resources in relation to the number of cases that are brought before it. the number of cases reported to the ets is increasing systematically and in 2011 was 11,3% higher than the previous year. the court of justice has also established that the principle of equal treatment applies to all judges of the supreme court, including those who are appointed by the president of the republic. this situation leads to considerable delays in the work of the court, where as many as 1323 cases were pending until 12 october last year. i therefore support the proposal by ets for a regulation which would allow the appointment of ad interim judges to the european union civil service tribunal. the court proposed that, at the request of the president of the court of justice, the council of the european union draw up a list of three persons to serve as ad interim judges for a period of four years, chosen from among former members of the cjeu. such judges would have the powers of a judge only in respect of the cases to which they are assigned, but would not have the right to participate in the administration of the court or in the election of the president of the court or the presidents of chambers. the additional costs resulting from such a solution would be relatively small, as these judges would only receive a salary of 1/30 of the salary of a permanent judge for each day of work. i support the court's proposal because, although this will increase the costs in the budget for next year, ensuring effective legal protection and the possibility of speeding up judicial processes should be a priority for the proper functioning of the union.
in writing. − in view of the growing need to regulate the rules of operation of ad interim judges of the european union civil service tribunal. in view of the circumstances which justify their appointment, i consider that the remuneration of ad interim judges and the termination of their duties should also be regulated. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. − achieving sustainable economic growth is facilitated by modern and efficient infrastructure. its development is also directly linked to the expansion of the internal market and the creation of more jobs. it is estimated that investment in transport, energy and telecommunications will cost around €1.5 trillion over the next decade. on this basis, the solutions proposed by the commission are therefore aimed at attracting private sector investors. such solutions should always be approached with great caution. i therefore welcome the introduction of a six-month pilot programme as a test run for all the capital instruments linked to the europe 2020 strategy. this will allow the degree of acceptance of these activities by the capital markets to be determined and the functioning of the project bond system to be checked. i voted in favour of the report to support the pilot phase, but my position on the whole project, including the bond mechanism, is to be described as moderate and restrained.
in writing. - i supported the legislative resolution on, among other things, the trans-european transport networks. the aid scheme for the creation of a coherent road, rail, water and air infrastructure contributes to strengthening social cohesion, especially in the central european countries where the quality of infrastructure still needs to be significantly improved. i welcome the allocation of a special envelope of 10 billion euro for the countries covered by the cohesion fund, including poland.
in writing. − project bonds are an instrument that was created to finance projects under the connecting europe programme to create a transport, energy and digital network. it is worrying that investment in europe is declining, a process that started before the crisis. furthermore, the networks in the east are disconnected from the networks in the west and they need to be connected. the project bonds are intended to be an additional instrument for financing infrastructure investments, complementing the current financing system. the 2012 and 2013 years are to be a pilot phase for the bonds, with full operation in 2014. the objective of the pilot phase is to examine the reaction of financial markets to the new instrument. the introduction of project bonds could accelerate the implementation of infrastructure projects by facilitating the raising of private finance. the security of the bonds would ensure eu support. the risk mitigation could encourage different market players to invest in infrastructure projects. project bonds are not a substitute for grants. however, they are intended to complement them, ensuring that investments are financed more efficiently and more quickly. in addition to bonds, both private and public funds national and eu should continue to play a significant role.
in writing. − the programme for the construction of european transport networks in the period 2014-2020 requires a radical increase in funding. of the 10 such trans-european networks, two will run through poland: a west-east line and a north-south line (via adriatica). a significant part of this second line will run through the kujawsko-pomorskie voivodeship. this should radically improve the speed and quality of transport, and contribute to the renovation of stations such as grudziądz, bydgoszcz and inowrocław. but it is clear that the traditional eu budget is not enough for these major projects. it will require the support of international financial institutions. i am therefore strongly in favour of the issuance of infrastructure bonds by banks subject to the union. this would accelerate rail investment, creating additional, much-needed jobs.
in writing. mr. president, there has been a recent increase in violent attacks in the west bank. the conflict between israel and the palestinians, despite the increased involvement of the community and international institutions, continues, and has even increased in intensity again. the european union has repeatedly reiterated its support for the two-state solution by calling for direct peace talks. it seems that the only desirable solution for peace and security is for the two countries to coexist side by side, with jerusalem as their capital. i voted to reject the joint resolution and to adopt the draft resolution of my political group, which i consider to be the most balanced and pragmatic. it recognises the palestinian authority's rights to the west bank, while respecting the right of the tel aviv authorities to protect their legitimate security interests. it also expresses its full understanding and support for the people of both sides who are suffering from the daily hardships of the conflict and who want to live together in peace and tranquility.
mr. chairman, please! violence against people of different sexual orientation in african countries is clearly on the rise. according to estimates by lgbt organizations, these people are increasingly victims of harassment, physical attacks, arrests, even murders. homosexuality is now illegal in 38 african countries; in mauritania, yemen, parts of nigeria, the gambia and somalia it is punishable by death. lgbt people are not only marginalized as citizens by their own governments, but they are not protected in any way by the state's executive bodies. the homophobia that prevails in the police force there means that there is no guarantee of protection and safety. the african authorities should condemn all manifestations and incitement to acts of hatred and violence and punish the perpetrators of such acts. the european union can also play a significant role in this respect through cooperation agreements with african countries, which can also contribute to the equal treatment of all citizens, regardless of their sexual orientation.
mr. chairman, please! the level of discrimination and homophobia in africa is increasing. it's good that parliament is speaking out to defend human rights. the fight against discrimination is particularly important and my appeal is that we should use the european external action service and other effective means to try to force these countries to relax their criminal laws, in particular to abolish the death penalty. i believe that the issue of development aid and trade agreements should also be made conditional on the introduction of appropriate legal changes by these countries. i think it is extremely important in this resolution that we also be effective in working to mitigate the laws that are so strongly discriminatory against same-sex unions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am glad that andrzej poczobut was released from detention on saturday, but at the same time i have no doubt that neither his individual case nor the broader issue of freedom of speech, freedom of the media in belarus is a closed issue. the repression faced by journalists in belarus is political in nature. criminal law is used to harass independent thought. i believe that the laws which allow such practices should be changed, and we are calling for this in our resolution. we defend freedom of speech and freedom of the press, because freedom of speech is one of the fundamental human rights, one of the foundations of democracy. in belarus, these laws are broken. those who dare to describe reality as it is - like mr. andrzej poczobut - are severely punished for it. he has been declared a prisoner of conscience before. our task is to persuade the belarusian authorities to release all prisoners of conscience. and i hope that happens soon.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mrs. schaake was right when she said that andrzej poczobut was not acquitted, he was only released on bail pending trial. that means he's still facing five to seven years in prison. we should remember that. mr repo was right when he said that there are still 13 oppositionists there, people who had the courage to oppose the last dictatorship in europe we must remember that. why was andrei pochobut in prison? because he's a pole, an oppositionist and a journalist. it turns out that this is not enough he is a brave pole, a brave oppositionist and a journalist who is doing his job. it was too much for lukashenko. andrzej poczobut's main fault is that he does his duty and what he does, he does well. the question is, are we doing the right thing? so there's always going to be someone in this room, sometimes a whole group, who's not able to hold a coherent political line for a long time. we use the carrot method sometimes, the stick method sometimes. let us make a decision to use one or the other, or both, for a longer period of time. it is always the case that the european union is responsible for what is happening in belarus - to a small extent - but it is also responsible for its inability to maintain a firm line against the regime in minsk. and i'm calling this house and the commission on a fixed line.
on behalf of the s&d group. censorship of the media and restrictions on freedom of speech are common practice in belarus. the media law introduced in 2008 allows for media surveillance and the government has been taking advantage of it. according to unofficial reports, at least 95 journalists were detained in 2011, 13 of whom were convicted and imprisoned for allegedly failing to fulfill their administrative duties. on 21 june, the authorities arrested andrzej poczobut, a polish correspondent for the "gazeta wyborcza" and a prominent activist of the polish-belarusian minority. he was accused of defaming the president and undermining the judicial and executive capacity of the state. although pochobut was released from custody on june 30, the charges against him have not been dropped, and he faces a lengthy prison sentence. i strongly urge the representatives of belarus to act in accordance with their international obligations to respect fundamental human rights, starting with article 34 of the belarusian constitution, which guarantees its citizens freedom of speech and expression.
mr. chairman, please! a week ago, when we proposed this resolution, andrzej poczobut was in custody. today, he is a free man, albeit on parole. i'd like to say a few words about him, because i know him personally. i had the good fortune and the honor to be visited by him in my home in poland when he represented the delegation of poles from belarus. this is a man of unbreakable character, a lover of freedom and a lover of the people who elected him to office in the union of poles in belarus. this is a man who will not be broken by any dictator. he reminds me of adam michnik, a legendary figure of the polish underground, the polish democratic opposition, the freedom fighter, journalist and politician. just as communism in poland broke its teeth on adam michnik and his friends, so the belarusian regime will break its teeth on andrzej poczobuc. that's why i appeal to minsk, to alexander lukashenko and all his colleagues to be sensible: if you want to cooperate with europe, stop persecuting the opposition, including poles in belarus.
mr. chairman, please! there are those who say to us members: 'oh, another resolution on belarus! it's not worth it, mr. lukashenko doesn't care. maybe these signals that are coming to belarus - and they certainly are, because today you can read all this on the internet - may not work for mr. lukashenko himself, but i believe that there is a group of people around mr. president lukashenko who are firing employees from their jobs for belonging to the democratic opposition and working for freedom of speech, who are firing students from universities, and that these people will understand that we will remember their actions. and we'll be consistent in not allowing them to come skiing to austria, to vacationing on the beaches of spain. i hope that it will finally work and that we will get to the point where there will finally be democratic elections in belarus and the belarusians will decide their own future.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a short question because i did not understand from your statement whether you support the arrest of andrzej poczobut or you are against it. do you think this is an internal matter of belarus and the european union should not get involved? or do you think that's our duty and our job? among other things, you are probably paid by european taxpayers to fight for people like andrzej poczobut.
mr. chairman, please! the belarusian representative at the eastern partnership meetings keeps saying that belarus is being marginalized, that it is not playing its role properly, that we are treating it badly (we mean the union). at the same time, belarus continues its undemocratic procedures, puts people in prison and does not care at all about these signals that are being sent from the european union, and these signals are becoming more and more clear. i therefore call on the eastern partnership foreign ministers meeting in july to assess and review belarus' relations with the european union, given that belarus is not responding to our signals and continues to commit human rights violations. these signals we send must be taken into account by this country to a much greater extent than before.
mr. chairman, please! we rejected acta yesterday because we saw some ambiguity in this complex and complicated document, because many people felt that their freedom on the internet could be restricted and threatened. it was a difficult decision, but we made it because freedom, the creation and use of information is absolutely fundamental to us. and today we demand the same from our eastern neighbor, belarus. the behaviour of the authorities in this beautiful european country is shameful, and the most admirable is the attitude of the brave, honest andrzej poczobut and other activists of the democratic opposition, for whom we loudly demand freedom, freedom of action, solidarity and support from all european institutions striving for this goal.
in writing. in light of the recent events in belarus, concerning the arrest of mr. andrzej poczobut, a journalist of gazeta wyborcza and an activist of the non-recognized union of poles in belarus in minsk, i believe that releasing him from custody was the minimum step the belarusian government could have taken to move closer to reversing the current repressive policy in the country. the very act of arresting the journalist is yet another proof of the continuing very bad human rights situation in belarus. at the same time, i am deeply concerned about what is happening in belarus. the belarusian government is clearly abusing its rights and does not comply with international norms such as the united nations declaration or the universal declaration of human rights. i call on the belarusian authorities to respect the principles of democracy, including the right to freedom of expression, and to reform the law on free media and freedom of association. mr. pochobut's sentence of 3 years in prison is an action designed to suspend his work and attempt to threaten him with prison. if there are more articles in the press that the belarusian government doesn't like, will he go back to prison? i therefore call on the authorities to apply international legal standards. silencing journalists is not a way to maintain the good reputation of the state, but a simple act of harassment and limitation of an individual.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you were kind enough to say that a woman has a right to her own body and that's a given. i don't think it's about the baby. because i understand that a woman has the same right as a man to his leg or his arm, but i don't think she has the right to a child. if you consider the child in a woman's body to be a part of a woman's body, then i would like to ask you, up to what month do you consider it to be a part of a woman's body and if after birth it is also a part of a woman's body?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. china's one-child policy and two-child policy is a violation of basic human rights. it is carried out mainly by abortion and sterilization. sex education and contraception are inadequate. in 2011, only 12% of young chinese had knowledge of contraception. china has 13 million abortions every year, or 35,000 a day. only relaxing family planning policies, providing proper sex education and increasing access to contraception can bring down china's abortion rate. forced abortion must be categorically eliminated as it is a form of cruel and unacceptable state violence against women. no state has the right to force either an abortion or a termination of pregnancy against a woman's will. forced abortion, like the ban on abortion, is a form of totalitarianism, an unacceptable interference by the state in women's reproductive rights. in both cases, the consequences are similar. women lose their health, die or are maimed for life. unwanted children are abused and even killed. now china's population is growing mainly because people are living longer, not because they have more children. allowing more births could help china reverse its deteriorating demographic structure.
it is hard not to be deeply concerned about the situation of forced abortions of women in china. the 'one-child policy' is no longer just a regulation to curb china's high birth rate, but a cause of forced abortions and maternal and infant deaths. it is an inhuman, inhuman situation when 23-year-old feng jianmei in her seventh month of pregnancy was subjected to a forced abortion. this case is proof that the methods used to enforce strict family planning laws are reprehensible, and even if the authorities in china have already punished those responsible for this cruel act, it is no guarantee that such a situation will not happen again. forced sterilization, induced abortion, is a violation of basic human rights and a lack of respect for new life. it is an expression of a particular form of violence against women and mothers. the restrictive policy is causing increasing concern among the chinese public. young women fear for their lives because many of them die after forced procedures. the method of enforcing the existing rules is unacceptable.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament adopted a resolution today condemning forced abortions and forced sterilisations in china. the official family planning policy of allowing only one child and introducing female abortion is a violation of human rights, a violation of the integrity of the female body, which deserves the highest criticism and political intervention. coercive measures used to force women to have abortions, such as pressure and intimidation, are an inhumane tool to pressure mothers to get rid of their children. ms. feng jianmei's case shows that forced abortion also occurs in fetuses that might be capable of independent existence outside the mother's body. ninety to 95 percent of seven-month-old babies born in europe have a chance of survival, so they're no longer fetuses, but fully-formed human beings. this cannot be tolerated and still considered normal practice under official family planning policy. for our part, we should not limit ourselves to words, but translate our protest today into concrete actions.
in writing. china is one of the eu's main economic partners and the world's fastest growing economy. at the same time, there are known cases of human rights violations in this country. i believe that as members of the european parliament, an institution founded on fundamental rights, we have a duty to emphasise our disapproval of acts that violate bodily and spiritual integrity. the case in shaanxi province, which is the subject of today's resolution, shows how brutal, ruthlessly the chinese authorities are implementing their family planning policy. i don't have to tell you that the actions we're taking are reminiscent of scenes from movies or books set in the middle ages. the european union has taken on the role of promoter and defender of human rights. in the context of legislative work on the deepening of the protection of the rights of children and women, i agree with the text of the resolution and believe that the european commission should raise this issue during the next bilateral meeting with china.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, first let me congratulate the rapporteur, lara comi, and the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection – in particular its chair, malcolm harbour – for the excellent work which they have completed. you all know that standardisation is one of the major instruments underpinning the european economy. the cooperation between industry users, public authorities and the standardisation organisations in drawing up standards has contributed decisively to what i think you will all agree is one of europe’s greatest achievements: the internal market. standards play a vital role in enhancing the competitiveness of european enterprises; they assist access to today’s globalised markets and ensure interoperability, which is vital for competition and developing new products and services. for smes, standards are a key tool to help them retain and attract consumers. the reduced risk and increased trust and satisfaction flowing from the use of standards opens markets for them in a secure environment. precisely because of this importance, standardisation must adapt to the new societal changes that we face: the globalised economy, the need for sustainable development, the convergence of technologies protecting the consumer and improving accessibility and inclusion for disabled and elderly people. to address these issues, the commission adopted the standardisation package in june 2011, and i am glad to see that the european parliament is now discussing the adoption of the final piece of that package: the regulation on european standardisation. this regulation would help to address and solve three problems. first, the speed of mandated standardisation. the planning and transparency of commission mandates asking the european standardisation organisations to draw up standards in support of the legislation and policies will be improved through the annual work programme and by means of financial support. second, the inclusiveness of european standardisation. the opinion of relevant societal stakeholders is today not sufficiently integrated in the process, and this regulation will improve this representation of smes and societal stakeholders at both european and national level. the third element concerns public procurement. you know that many information and communication technology standards ensuring interoperability are elaborated not by the european standardisation organisations but by global forums and consortiums, and these specifications do not then fit into our categories of standards to which public authorities may refer in their calls for tender. this regulation will provide an evaluation procedure, after which public authorities will be able to use such ict specifications in public procurement provided they comply with a set of criteria based on the world trade organisation principles for the standardisation process. the regulation also affirms the existing possibility for the union to use service standardisation as a policy tool within harmonised service sectors. like so many in parliament, the commission regrets the council’s determination to impose bureaucratic comitology procedures on mandates which we think are both unjustified and will undermine the efficiency of the system due to their time-consuming nature. this is why we are going to make full use of the review clause inserted – thankfully – by parliament to evaluate the impact of comitology on mandates, with a view to making possible new proposals within two years. nevertheless, given that most of the key elements of the original proposal have been accepted, and in a spirit of compromise and in order to facilitate a first-reading agreement, the commission is willing to accept the text as agreed between parliament and the council.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - what are you doing? the regulatory requirements for products, services and processes serve to standardise production, i.e. to achieve a scale effect, and also improve quality and promote the protection of health and safety of consumers. however, technical progress is outpacing the standard-setting processes, which leads to market conflicts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's standards are properly applied and that they are applied in a timely manner. the removal of barriers to trade in goods and services between member states is of great importance, and this raises the need for harmonisation. standardization is a process in which the european institutions are complemented by national standardisation bodies. the commission's draft regulation, however, largely omits the latter, and there are no better mechanisms to create the appropriate link between the eu centre and the member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european conservatives and reformists group supports the report congratulations to the rapporteur for a good job. we are in favour of the electronic identification system being voluntary rather than compulsory. it should be borne in mind that the introduction of such a system is difficult and costly, especially for small farms, for small producers. the principle of voluntariness must be maintained here. my group and i support the position of the committee on agriculture and rural development on this matter. as regards the labelling of beef, i would like to draw attention to an important amendment which speaks of the need to inform and label meat derived from cloned animals. it is important that this information reaches the consumer. at the moment it is still a marginal issue, but if in the future it is to be on the market - which i am against - then of course there should be a labelling in this area.
mr. chairman, please! half the member states of the european union have given airspace to the cia for covert operations in the european union. does this mean that half of the european countries (finland, germany, portugal, spain, poland) have thus shown contempt for the humanitarian achievements of international law, for international human rights standards? that would be an absurd conclusion. i think these countries have made very difficult decisions in very dramatic times of attacks in new york, in london, in madrid. there have certainly been mistakes, but the height of hypocrisy today is to accuse all these countries (as i say half of the countries of the european union) without presenting an alternative to how to deal legally with the leaders of the international terrorist movement. the suggestion in this report to give them all the legal privileges our suspects enjoy in criminal proceedings seems a little too serious. and interestingly, president obama understood this, and he used this argument three or four years ago to win over the american people in a popular vote. but today guantanamo bay is still operating, and president obama, just a few months ago, returned to the use of military tribunals to try people suspected of terrorist activity. unfortunately, the european parliament has not understood this and therefore this report does not deserve our support. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. i agree that human rights are universal, but i also see that the situation of a common criminal is different from the situation of someone who blows up the uss cole. this is a situation that is closer to war than to a common crime, which is why we are dealing with criminal and military proceedings in all the member states of the european union. i'm not saying these people should be treated according to the laws of war. i'm saying that these people's activities are not like ordinary crimes. it is somewhere between a crime and a war crime, and that is why i say that international law is not fully responsive to the phenomenon of international terrorism, and that there is a legal gap. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. i agree that the judiciary is the only body that should decide on sentencing people, whether they are common criminals, war criminals or soldiers on the battlefield. but i suggest that we pay attention to the fact that the ordinary criminal procedure is highly imperfect when we are confronted with a phenomenon called the international terrorist network, which is like a dispersed asymmetrical army. i would argue that the geneva conventions drawn up 60 years ago also do not fully meet this challenge, and certainly the humanitarian nature of the criminal procedure in our member states does not fully meet this challenge.
mr. chairman, please! in august of this year, a parabank called amber gold collapsed in poland. the savings company lost 5,000 people. similar cases have occurred in the past in europe - in spain in 2006, in germany the göttinger gruppe defrauded 250,000 people. with the problem of para-banks on a european scale and their share of the financial market increasing on a global scale, this is half of the bank assets we expect member state governments to tighten regulations and supervision of these companies. we expect constructive action in the consultations being held by the european commission on the rules that may regulate the banking system. without adequate information, full information, and guarantees for customers, such companies should not be allowed to trade at financial risk in europe. we hope that the tragedy of thousands of citizens being defrauded by parabanks will encourage the authorities to submit appropriate proposals to the commission to prevent similar financial scandals in the future.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the problem of taking children away from their families - a problem, rather a dangerous and inhuman practice. i am aware of the example of a polish family in the netherlands, where two children were taken away as a result of unverified and unconfirmed suspicions of violence. after a dramatic, months-long struggle, the parents got their children back, but the traumatic experiences of these children, separated from their parents, will never be erased from their memory. i shall provide the details of this case in a separate letter requesting that it be examined by the dutch authorities concerned. i am for the protection of children from violence, but from all violence, whether domestic violence in families or violence by state authorities, because the unjustified removal of a child from his family, from his parents, is one of the most serious forms of violence.
mr. chairman, please! shale gas has become a hope for many european union countries in the wake of the energy crisis and the blackmail mechanism russia has begun using by threatening to turn the gas turkey. in this situation, large shale gas deposits, which have been confirmed in several eu countries, give hope for energy independence and independence from possible actions and interference by russia, which would use the energy instrument in relations with the eu countries. unfortunately, the latest document published by the european commission, prepared by aia technology, which previously favored gazprom's gas extraction from siberian fields, is now questioning shale gas extraction in europe. it seems that such a company is not objective, since it is financially dependent on and in financial relations with gazprom, which has a vital interest in ensuring that shale gas cannot be extracted in poland and other countries of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! tomorrow we will vote on another report on the situation of women in employment, this time in the service sector. this is a sector of such importance that the employment rate of women is high and accounts for 25% of total female employment. in this sector we are faced with the typical problems faced by women in the workforce, namely that they are employed below their qualifications, are paid less than men for the same work, and are forced to take on part-time work. this is largely due to the difficulties women face in trying to balance family life with their work. in this report, we reiterate our call for the creation of adequate and affordable childcare and eldercare infrastructure. as regards wage inequality, we reiterate our call on member states, employers and trade unions to develop and implement specific labour evaluation tools to facilitate the definition of work of equal value.
madam president! we all know the problems of malta, italy (lampedusa in particular), greece and the countries bordering the mediterranean. less frequently, it is those countries that border the european union's eastern neighbours. there is indeed a little less pressure on the border, but all of this together is a great challenge for all of us, for the european union. we cannot have this division between the problems of the southern and northern member states of the union. it is important that we have a common policy and i am very pleased that so many of my colleagues have spoken about european solidarity. we need to share control. the polish foreign minister is even talking about a joint border guard. only by joint control will we be able to take care of these people properly, their rights, dignity, freedom and that everything they have survived in life, they can work, live decently in our territory, if they ever come here.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs for the very rapid drafting of the two reports, given the urgent implementation of the new rules planned for later this year. i welcome the principle that the european commission and its agency for medicines will have a greater responsibility for the safety of pharmaceuticals. the agency's broad powers, including those of granting manufacturers marketing licences valid throughout the european union, have not so far been combined with the obligation not only to warn of risks detected but also to intervene at national level. in the high-profile case of a deadly drug in france, the european institutions have been unable for many years to ban the drug in its country of origin, while other member states have withdrawn it from the market. we know there was a conflict of interest between the regulatory agency and the drug companies that funded it. we are aware of the overwhelming power of the pharmaceutical companies. the fight is hard, but it is possible, and it must continue.
madam president! it is really good that the commission has proposed a revision of the pharmacotherapy directive. the safety of medicines available on the eu common market is indeed of paramount importance to citizens. the european parliament, but also the other european institutions, must continuously and systematically do everything possible in changing times, in changing purchasing possibilities, so that citizens can be sure of products that are available not only in shops and pharmacies but also on the internet. the mediator case, which we are talking about here, has provoked a review of this directive and the pharmacovigilance regulation. i'm sure it's a step in the right direction. we need to improve the supervision of products offered on the common market. there are lots of fakes, there are lots of substances that are extremely dangerous, and there's no warnings or proper campaigning to tell the buying public, the consumers, which sources are dangerous, how to check a drug, where not to buy it. all counterfeits can be very dangerous, but we are really talking about a direct threat to human life and health. the public is not sufficiently informed about the effects of taking a substance. i agree with peter liese that information is often too complicated and sometimes not complete. so i would like to congratulate peter liese and anja weisgerber on this initiative from drug-fact-box. this can indeed greatly improve the situation of the consumer of medicines and can introduce legislation requiring that information on the contents and effects of the substance be given in a comprehensible manner. a short question for the commissioner. you mean the consultation. i saw the consult. again, i ask the question: how many languages are they conducted in? are they available to non-english speaking individuals and institutions?
i would like to draw attention to the following fact: for several years now, the sulphur content of marine fuels has been systematically reduced. this is the right course to take, because it improves the quality of life and helps to protect the environment. this also applies to the baltic sea and the countries bordering it, i.e. also to poland. it is worth noting, however, that the reduction in sulphur content will be radical. a few years ago, the sulphur content of fuel was 1.5%, today it is 1%, and in a few years it is expected to be 0.1%, which is a tenfold decrease. this puts many european shipowners in a very difficult position and the cost of fuel, which must be higher to be of better quality, may reduce the competitiveness of transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the shipowners, and this is the mission of the union and parliament.
mr. chairman, please! in reducing the sulphur content of marine fuels, we should seek a compromise between maintaining safe health standards and maintaining economic competition, especially for transport from non-european countries, such as third world countries, where fuel standards are significantly lower. we should therefore stick to the proposed sulphur threshold for fuel for ships coming to europe and give other countries until 2020 to raise their standards and make fuel less harmful. in addition, other emission limitations should also be addressed by the international maritime organisation. the current international arrangements on the sulphur content of marine fuel should be accepted and adopted by the european union.
in writing. with full understanding of the project to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from marine fuels, i would like to express some doubts about this legislation. i am aware that the commission's calculations are clear: the ratio of the monetary value of the benefits to the cost of implementing this reform is to be between 2 and 25. i'm also aware of the fact that human health is priceless. however, while the benefits of this project will be felt by all citizens to a limited extent, the costs may be concentrated in transport and maritime industry centres. i happen to be from szczecin, the city most concerned about this. if it is true that the citizens of such cities are the ones who are to bear the burden of this directive, then serious consideration should be given to measures or instruments which would be designed to counteract such a situation. in addition, i would note that a tenfold reduction in emissions in the seca areas, which also include the baltic sea, would be expected as early as 2015. this raises the question of whether it is technically possible to provide sufficient fuel until then. i think these are serious enough objections to make us think about how we should vote on this directive.
in writing. i welcome the proposal to amend the environmental legislation. the fact that air pollution is caused by the sulphur content of marine fuels is a major problem, given the issue of existing solutions for sulphur emissions on land. i believe that we need to develop appropriate rules for maritime transport, so that the impact of emissions of pollutants is reduced in both the aquatic and terrestrial environment. the main challenge is to set stricter sulphur limits: within the sulphur emission control areas (seca) cuts to 0.1% by 2015 and outside the seca to 0.5% by 2020. tightening fuel standards and regulations on emission reduction methods is possible while respecting the principles of sustainable development. by promoting high environmental standards, europe will become more competitive. the expected environmental effects will be similar in northern and southern europe, so the limits should not differ significantly. the other important issue that we should not forget is that of passenger ships, which should be covered by stricter restrictions. we want to focus on providing equal opportunities for companies of all sizes, while respecting the environment and the principles of a sustainable economy. in order to avoid distortions of competition with third countries outside the european union, marine fuels exceeding the current maximum sulphur content of 3,5% may only be used by incoming ships, but i believe that this is only appropriate until 2020. from this year onwards, all vessels operating in european union waters must comply with the above rules. in order to ensure a smooth transition, programmes are provided to improve the implementation of emission reduction methods.
mr. chairman, please! the hard-won compromise solves many, but not all, of the problems associated with this directive. one of the outstanding issues is the issue of public procurement. i think that the energy efficiency criterion in public procurement must be clearly balanced by the price criterion. we cannot have high electricity bills today replaced by very high, unprofitable, unrecoverable bills for energy efficiency services and goods. i think our citizens are pretty indifferent to whether they're paying too much for electricity or paying too much in taxes for energy efficiency. the linking of energy efficiency with climate policy is a very damaging one. manual control, administrative adjustment of the emission allowance market simply because it produces unexpected effects is very bad news for entrepreneurs, hurts the profitability of business in the european union and undermines the legal certainty of trading in the european union.
in writing. as the report shows, top-down energy constraints are key to efficiency. this is an obvious mistake. the efficient use of primary energy depends on the efficiency and number of conversion processes, the activation and dynamics of combustion processes (i.e. decreasing the ignition temperature), the transmission efficiency and the ohm losses. objective 3x20 commits to real efficiency gains rather than consumption reductions. it is about stimulating innovation to achieve this, not about limitations, exclusions and price barriers. the greatest reserves of real efficiency lie in thermal upgrading, cogeneration, reducing energy consumption. member states shall measure their efficiency as primary energy consumption per capita in 2020 in relation to the reference year.
in writing. i believe that the directive we are discussing today gives a lot of flexibility to member states, industry and the public sector, while supporting the efforts of eu members to increase energy efficiency at all stages of the energy chain, from processing, through distribution, to final consumption. the energy efficiency index in the industrial sector decreased by 58% between 1995 and 2009, compared to 20% for the eu as a whole. this reflects a significant improvement in energy efficiency in the industry, which is well above the eu average. the provisions on the transition to high-efficiency cogeneration technology are an example of the flexibility of the compromise directive. all newly built or refurbished industrial installations must be equipped with a cogeneration system if a cost-benefit analysis shows that there is a benefit-to-benefit ratio. in addition, member states may decide to waive this requirement for industrial installations, on substantial grounds. increasing efficiency improvements will require huge investments in the short and medium term, as almost half of today's electricity generation capacity and cogeneration systems are over 30 years old. the need to conserve energy has been around for a long time. however, in both industry and households, there are always more important expenditures than the cost of energy efficiency. i hope that the directive will change our perspective and that the increased awareness will bring us closer to changing the situation.
that's going to be a very specific question. i would like to ask whether, according to the minutes of the french-russian government meeting of november 2011, russia has actually submitted to the european commission a draft bilateral agreement that would exclude from the rules of the common market from the third energy liberalisation package russian export pipelines. has the european commission received a draft of such an agreement? has the european commission received such a request, submitted for example for the negotiation of an association agreement between the european union and russia? and has the european commission forwarded the draft agreement to the member states for consultation?
my question was about the draft international agreement. an international agreement vis-à-vis the secondary law of the european union is clearly an act of higher order of international law. i would like to ask you, in that case, whether you can deny that the russian side is claiming that international law excludes russian export pipelines in its dealings with the european union?
i'm not going to let you do this. i have one important question. the shale gas shall be contained, if there is a lot of it, in an energy basket. many countries are planning to increase their shale gas production. at the same time, a number of commissioners have commissioned various studies on the issues of technological safety and environmental impact of shale gas extraction technologies. i'd like to know how these research centres are selected, because the results are often mutually exclusive. one centre is very positive about shale gas extraction technologies, while another is quite the opposite it says that the technology is very dangerous. the next question i'd like to ask is about ets. it didn't produce the results expected. but we - as europe - are stuck with this system. i'd like to know what's next for ets.
thank you for your answer. i would like to know, however, about the independence of these research centres. because the information that we had in our committee, it shows that many of the centers represented specific manufacturers, like renewable energy equipment. it's hard to expect their speeches and their research to be very neutral. i would therefore like to know whether it would not be better if the research centres in the united states were the ones to provide information on shale gas technology and extraction methods, rather than the centres which have a specific interest in promoting the methods.
mr. chairman, please! this regulation follows on from a resolution adopted by parliament two years ago on the future of european standardisation. it emphasises the role of standards as drivers of innovation and their role in ensuring the functioning of the single market with a view to ensuring a high level of consumer protection. the commission has also proposed a number of important amendments to increase the participation of smes in standardisation activities, and to increase the involvement of national public authorities and social groups, including consumer organisations. will contribute to the development of standards and to their clarity. the inclusion of standards for services in the legal framework of european standardisation will contribute to a significant improvement in the quality and safety of this sector of the economy, affecting its harmonisation, transparency and competitiveness with clear benefits for consumers. the report takes account of the conclusions of the public hearing conducted by my committee, and i therefore voted in favour of this document with full conviction.
mr. chairman, please! public health is an area of concern to every citizen of the union and one which the european institutions have a duty to address. the emergence of disturbing information on problems related to the activities of pharmaceutical companies from time to time makes it necessary to continuously refine the rules for pharmacovigilance and cooperation at this level in all member states, especially since the commission's inspection has revealed significant deficiencies in the existing legal system. taking into account the public interest, i support the proposed amendments, in particular the extension of the cases requiring an automatic procedure when a member state is considering the suspension or withdrawal of a pharmaceutical product from the market. the need for legislation to increase the transparency of the actions of drug manufacturers and to extend the list of medicines subject to additional post-market monitoring is also a necessity today. i hope that the new regulations will contribute to improving patient safety, as was reflected in the consistent position of all parliamentary groups. i voted for the report.
mr. chairman, please! i could not support this report because of the harmful treatment of shipowners in the baltic sea, north sea and channel area, who have been ordered to use fuels with a sulphur content of less than 0,1% since 2015. seca shipowners are calling on the european parliament to postpone the date of implementation of the above mentioned legislation until 2019, when ships worldwide outside the seca will be obliged to use fuel with a sulphur content of up to 0,5%. the proposed regulation will lead to a 70% increase in the price of marine fuel. this will make short-range shipping completely unprofitable. the sulphur content of marine fuels must be reduced, but this should be done within a reasonable time. these restrictions can lead to bankruptcy of shipowners and mass redundancies.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the report on the sulphur content of marine fuels directive because i believe that in its present form it is a balanced document, taking into account both the key environmental issues and the importance of maintaining the competitiveness of the european fleet. i support the idea that air quality standards should be the same throughout the european union, and i am glad that this view is reflected in the report. i also believe that restricting the use of higher sulphur fuels by third country ships in transit by 2020 is a good step towards preserving the conditions of competition. i consider it essential to ensure that member states have access to training and programmes to promote awareness of emission reduction methods and to monitor the risks of shifting from maritime to inland transport.
in writing. − this is not the first time that denmark has requested the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. several of the proposals so far have been positively considered, both in terms of trade and crisis criteria. however, it is denmark that is among the countries that question the viability of the egf after 2013. the countries in question are blocking the extension of the crisis-related derogation and seeking to reduce the commission's financial allocation for the egf in 2012, while denmark's proposal proposes a relatively expensive package of personalised services of eur 11 737 per worker, which is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. - there is no doubt that the construction sector in the european union has been severely affected by the crisis. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a direct result of this crisis. the egf should be used primarily for training and job search as well as for training programmes. they should not be a supplement to the unemployment benefit, which is precisely what the financial incentives to participate in the adopted measures provided for in the coordinated package prepared by spain are. the national institutions, not the eu institutions, are responsible for unemployment benefits. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the eu countries spend over four hundred billion euros a year on energy imports, making them heavily dependent on foreign suppliers. any action to increase energy efficiency, conserve resources and reduce the high level of dependence is desirable. support for eu energy-producing companies is fully justified, as it contributes to the competitiveness of europe in the world and, within the union, to the development of this sector of the economy, as well as other sectors, and to the creation of jobs. with energy prices rising steadily, it is in the interest of european consumers to ensure that these costs are kept under control. the objective of absolute reduction of energy consumption set out in the directive must therefore be taken into account in energy management strategies. i hope that thoughtful and effective austerity measures will help to save households' extremely tight budgets during the crisis. i support the report.
in writing. − the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on energy efficiency and repealing directives 2004/8/ec and 2006/32/ec examined several key issues that will determine the future of europe. the eu faces a huge challenge of increasing electricity demand, due to the development of new member states, among others. according to the international energy agency, poland will need 50 percent more energy in 15 years than it can produce today. the production of this quantity is hampered by the strict eu co2 emission standards and the need to deploy renewable energy technologies. europe also faces the challenge of increasing energy efficiency by 20% by the end of 2020 (european council conclusion of 4 february 2011). unfortunately, a number of internal and external factors, including the economic crisis and the competition in transport and heavy industry, are making it difficult to achieve this objective. we are facing a challenge that forces us to develop faster, with less damage to the environment, which is not easy to meet! outdated infrastructure and technologies are causing a lot of waste and high emissions, and to change that, investment is needed. in addition, instruments that would reduce energy consumption by citizens should be considered.
in writing. - i abstained on the energy efficiency directive. on the one hand, the legitimate objectives of reducing energy costs are presented, while on the other hand, a system of 'energy-efficient public procurement' is being created, for which the taxpayers will ultimately pay a very high price.
in writing. − although the commission was right to finally focus on energy efficiency after considering the market effects, the report did not address this issue. objective indicators are needed to measure both micro and macro-economic efficiency, i.e. the real gross efficiency of the member states. the latter should be measured by the growth rate as the difference between the primary energy consumption per unit of gdp per capita of the country from year to year divided by the output consumption per unit of gdp per capita, times 100 in percentage. energy policy, defined after the adoption of the right 3x20 political objective in 2007 by the member states, has been distorted by the climate and energy package. it introduces unfair competition, discriminating against countries whose energy mix is dominated by coal as a primary energy source. the package is not based on economic realities: member states are obliged to pursue different objectives simultaneously. the optimal, multi-stage, cost-effective approach to the 3x20 target is lacking. if not only the energy mix but also the policy objective is left to the member states, this will result in more primary energy being wasted and more co2 being emitted than is realistically possible. but it's a matter of trust, and we're seeing a crisis of trust. given the above arguments, i did not support the report.
in writing. − improving energy efficiency is one of the best ways to combat global warming. i am very positive about the measures taken so far to improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings. in the case of poland, support for building insulation or window replacement is one of the most visible signs of poland's membership of the european union. it is clearly viewed favourably by the public. i therefore welcomed the draft energy efficiency directive which requires member states to renew 3% of the total heated or cooled area of buildings owned or occupied by public authorities each year. i regret that parliament has failed to push through its proposal to renovate all public buildings, not just the central government buildings. on the other hand, the solution adopted is a major step forward in achieving the greenhouse gas reduction targets. crucially, the directive will close the gap between us and the target of 20% energy savings by 2020. now we can guarantee that we'll be able to reduce energy consumption by 15 percent. if the current rules were to continue, the realistic prospect would be only a 9% reduction. this is a result far below expectations and needs. in view of the above, i have decided to support the content of the energy efficiency report.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the european union spends over €400 billion a year on energy imports, and eu countries are in many cases dependent on supplies (especially gas) from a single source. i therefore fully support the idea of reducing energy consumption through more efficient use, which will lead to a reduction in dependence on third countries and will benefit ordinary citizens. this is a very important issue for all member states, as it can not only bring significant financial savings but also reduce the use of natural resources. that is why i have decided to support the eu's energy efficiency directive.
in writing. − the energy efficiency report is one of the few parts of the europe 2020 agenda that does not have a negative impact on the economy. however, like other records, the 20% increase in energy efficiency is also very costly for countries, especially in times of economic crisis. therefore, energy efficiency improvements should primarily concern improved efficiency in the energy concentration in homes and energy efficiency improvements in industry, including improvements in energy transmission. the deployment of intelligent transmission networks and the upgrading of existing ones is a strategic and extremely costly undertaking. in poland, most lines are over 30 years old, so their modernisation, necessary to meet the requirements of the directive, is an extremely costly undertaking and the provisions of the directive put to the vote do not sufficiently provide for the financial means for such tasks. moreover, they do not give any preferential tariff to the new european union countries. implementation of this directive may therefore prove problematic and much more costly than the union analysis suggests.
in writing. - in this particular case, i did not hesitate for a moment to vote for the waiver of the member's immunity. all the opinions clearly indicate that such a decision will help to clarify the circumstances of the accident more quickly and will allow the culprit to be identified. it was also of great importance that the case concerned an act which had no connection with the exercise of the mandate of jarosław leszek wałęsza as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - regarding my decision to vote for the waiver of the immunity of birgit collin-langen, i believe that, since the matter is of a few years ago, for the sake of the functioning of parliament and the transparency of the rules, it is necessary to allow the german authorities to carry out an effective and fair investigation. the more so as the mp herself expresses a desire for a speedy conclusion of the case, and the only way to do this is by her presence at the court hearings.
in writing. - half of european countries are known to have provided airspace for cia covert operations within the eu. these include germany, spain, portugal, finland and poland. this is not and cannot be taken to mean that these states are showing contempt for the humanitarian acquis of international law and human rights standards. first of all, the governments of the individual countries had to make decisions during the attacks in new york, london, madrid. special measures seemed necessary at the time. the suggestion in the report that suspects of leadership in terrorist movements should have been accorded the same legal privileges as suspects in our criminal cases is a misunderstanding. furthermore, the report gives a negative assessment of those decisions, while not providing any alternative to them. we all respect the universality and indivisibility of human rights, but we must distinguish between the situation of an ordinary criminal and that of a terrorist planning and carrying out a suicide attack on military targets or innocent civilians. that is why i could not vote for this report.
in writing. - i wanted to point out the inaccuracies in the document. they may prevent european union member states and partners who have agreed to take in former guantanamo detainees from fully implementing provisions to provide rapid and professional support for living and health conditions and facilitate access to documents, in particular family reunification and the exercise of the rights of persons with political refugee status.
in writing. - the document on increasing solidarity within the european union in the field of asylum and the idea contained therein are close to my thoughts and feelings. however, i decided to abstain because i am convinced that the individual member states have not shown sufficient determination to clarify their own asylum systems, relying on the european parliament. solidarity must go hand in hand with responsibility, and after reading this document, i am not convinced of that.
in writing. − the resolution on enhancing solidarity within the european union in the field of asylum is an expression of the desire to harmonise international protection standards through further alignment of member states' legislation and effective cooperation between them. i agree with the report on the common european asylum system. it is particularly important in the context of the increasing number of migration flows and their diverse structure, which includes migrants, asylum seekers, refugees and particularly vulnerable persons such as unaccompanied minors. however, the above requirements require the introduction of the recommendations contained in the resolution on the functioning of the european asylum support office, which will on the one hand allow for an effective solution to the problems of member states at the external borders of the union, resulting inter alia from a disproportionate number of asylum applications, and on the other hand allow for a focus on long-term preventive objectives, the exchange of information and experience.
in writing. −standardisation plays a key role in the functioning of the internal market. harmonised european standards help to ensure the free movement of goods and make it possible to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses in the eu. i think it is particularly important to introduce legislation to increase the participation of smes in the standard-setting process. the limited participation of smes in the standardisation process raises concerns that the interests of these groups are not adequately taken into account in the standards. i therefore believe that we need to support the involvement of smes in standardisation, for example by identifying appropriate policies and presenting good practices, but also by introducing european standards that are understandable and easy to apply. it should be emphasised that standardisation affects the safety of consumers by giving them clear information about the product standard. therefore, increasing their participation in the standardisation process should also be a priority. i think it is a very positive element to incorporate service standards into the legal framework of european standardisation. this is a new development, but the diversity of services means that standardisation in this area will certainly have positive effects on the further creation and deepening of the single market. the establishment of certain benchmarks against which undertakings could assess the quality of services would certainly contribute to improving competitiveness. more effective consultation with all stakeholders, greater transparency and the extension of standardisation to services are the rational direction for the evolution of european standardisation rules.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report. i fully agree with the rapporteur that standards should be understandable and easy to apply so that they can be implemented more effectively by all users. i am thinking in particular of the users, the small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy. unfortunately, their commitment to standardisation is not always commensurate with their economic importance. this is because standards are not always designed to take account of the characteristics and environment of small enterprises, micro-enterprises and craft enterprises. therefore, steps should be taken to enable smes to participate fully in the development of standards and to ensure easier access to them.
in writing. − a review of the european standardisation system is necessary. this system contains many elements that should be considered successful and maintained. however, it also contains certain deficiencies that need to be addressed. the review of the current system should strike a balance between the european, national and international dimensions. it is also necessary to ensure the participation of both public authorities and interested social groups, such as consumers and workers, in european standardisation. it is also important that the european standard-setting process is more transparent and that it ensures financial stability. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. - the information technology in the agricultural sector is inevitable. the modern farmer is obliged to adapt production methods to the requirements and needs of the final consumer. this consumer increasingly wants to know more about the product they are buying, which is difficult to achieve for raw materials such as beef, because the production conditions vary. the electronic identification and registration system for cattle in the form of a special ear clip, a chip implanted under the skin or leg bands can ensure food safety and better control of the spread of diseases among animals. and i see a lot of other benefits. electronic identification, which is being widely introduced, can reduce unnecessary red tape by automatically copying and digitally transmitting all data. in a later development phase, the system could allow the producer to maintain a database of information on individual animals, i.e. disease history, feed or vaccination. the possibilities of an electronic record system are many, but the basic condition for its implementation is the provision of an appropriate it infrastructure and a group of specialists who are well versed in technical solutions and who decide on the ethical issues of storing and transferring the information collected by the system. i think that this is a task that should be entrusted to the eu institutions.
in writing. − to be effective and to serve both farmers and consumers well, the system for identifying cattle should be transparent and easy to use. the modern electronic system will allow for even more accurate verification of data, thus increasing the level of consumer safety. it is necessary to allow farmers to voluntarily implement the electronic system in the herd so that the new technology does not hit small farmers. this method will further reduce the risk of animal diseases. if a disease is present, it helps to locate the source of the disease. in order to make the system even more effective, it is necessary to introduce a number of facilitations leading to simplified procedures. many producers face obstacles to registering cattle, such as the unavailability of equipment, lack of technical skills, or various types of equipment or internet failure. it is therefore necessary to extend the time taken to register the animal in order to allow everyone to register in good time and to reduce the numerous financial penalties.
in writing. − having read the details of this document, i am encouraged by the amount of work done by the committee (number of amendments) and the degree of progress in the implementation of the systems in agriculture. i agree with most of the opinions and i am convinced that the technology introduced will bring a number of benefits. however, i decided to abstain because i am not sure that the voluntary introduction of electronic identification of cattle without a time limit will not make the implementation of this system in the poorer countries of the european union more lax.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs mcavan's report because i believe that the well-being of patients in the eu is one of our priorities. to protect our citizens, we must learn from our mistakes and change eu law so that we can respond quickly to any threat. we know that there are a number of criminal investigations in france regarding mediator. the commission's proposed changes to the existing pharmacovigilance rules following the ombudsman case are a step in the right direction. however, i agree with the statement that further changes are necessary to fill any legal gaps. i support the commission's proposals to tighten up pharmacovigilance at eu level.
in writing. − the 2011 mediator case, a french drug safety investigation, has led to calls for an urgent review of pharmacovigilance systems in the european union. the conclusions drawn from this case have shown that although the new rules of 2010 amending the rules for pharmacovigilance have indeed increased this oversight, there are still some shortcomings in the european union system that need to be addressed. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. - i was happy to support the mcavan report. unfortunately, in europe we have a serious problem with the safety of pharmaceuticals and the controllability of their use. i hope that today's report is the first of many steps we need to take to improve safety and thus make a real difference to the health and wellbeing of europeans. the mediator case in 2011 is just a small part of the mess that's been created in the pharmaceutical industry. let me remind you of the problems with stents, which were allowed in many countries of the european union, even though in the united states, where they were imported, they were already illegal. we must prevent such situations in advance, for the good of the citizens.
in writing. − under international conventions, the baltic sea is part of the so-called sulphur emission control areas. the level of pollution cannot exceed 1,5% and is much lower than in most other marine areas covered by the conventions. therefore, the pursuit of further reductions in the content of this constituent in marine fuels does not seem justified in relation to the control areas. without significant environmental benefits, the cost of changing the rules could in this case have a very negative impact on the coastal economy.
in writing. − according to the commission's estimates, the health benefits in terms of quantity outweigh the costs of reducing emissions from marine areas. the commission estimates the monetary value of the health benefits at between eur 8 billion and eur 16 billion, and the costs at between eur 0.6 billion and eur 3.7 billion. i admit that these statistics are convincing, but i think we should not forget the additional costs that businesses will have to bear in order to adapt to the new requirements. i believe that during the transition period, it is inevitable that more aid will be allowed from the eu and the member states.
in writing. - in voting on the report, i had several important issues in mind, such as the introduction of a 0.1% content requirement in the seca area (i.e. the baltic sea, north sea and channel basin) from 2015. the mediterranean countries, on the other hand, are not to be subject to such tightening until 2020. we are thus creating a clear division between the north sea and the south sea, distorting competition in the european market. the data presented show that less sulphur fuels are definitely more expensive. the environmental objectives set may therefore not be met, as the increase in cycling is very likely in the event of a higher price of maritime transport. of course, it is possible to equip ships with scrubber exhaust systems, but, given the age of the fleet and the economic situation of countries such as poland, it would be completely unprofitable to install them. the alternative to conventional fuels is the use of lng in ships. it may only concern newly launched vessels due to the technologies used. in addition, a european network of ports where such fuel can be refuelled is needed.
in writing. - given the potential risks involved in implementing the provisions of this directive, i had to vote against it. i would like to stress, however, my understanding of the noble aims of the implementation of this document. however, while the positive impact of this directive on citizens is small, although it affects the majority of eu citizens, the negative effects will be felt by a smaller group of people, but in a more severe way. this is reflected, inter alia, in the fact that the transitional periods proposed in the directive are too short. this means that a large number of fuels meeting the new criteria will have to be rapidly supplied in a relatively short time. this may lead to temporary shortages of supplies, which will raise the price of fuel and reduce the competitiveness of maritime transport in relation to land transport. moreover, the price of marine fuel will increase due to the cost of the additional desulphurisation process, which will be included in the price of the fuel. these concerns are so serious that i have decided to oppose the directive.
in writing. − the international maritime organisation has established that from 2015 the maximum sulphur content in marine fuels in seca areas will be 0.1%. in europe, the seca areas are the north sea, the english channel and the baltic sea. the introduction of a 0,1% sulphur limit for all ships engaged in regular passenger services, as well as the extension of that limit to territorial seas, will result in significant additional costs for the operators concerned by that limit. in addition, the lowering of the sulphur limits may lead to the takeover of goods currently transported by sea by trucks. this will cause additional damage to the environment and congestion on the roads. that's why i voted for "we".
in writing. - the reform of the common agricultural policy is the overriding theme of the committee on agriculture and rural development's work in this parliament's term. we are currently dealing with the proposals put forward by the european commission, discussing the direction of change, the ideas of experts and listening to the voice of citizens, especially our farmers. however, there are signs that no final decisions will be reached this year, as many issues remain highly uncertain and will require further debate and many compromises to reach satisfactory solutions. as regards wine growers, the european commission proposes that member states support farmers through the single payment scheme rather than, as is currently the case, through support schemes in the wine sector. the decision to transfer the funds is to be final and to be made by 1 december 2012. in the face of the reform and the 'transition year' that 2013 is set to be, the last year of the current cap funding period, this solution seems to be highly unfavourable for all stakeholders. i strongly support the solution proposed in the document to reduce the current form of the five-year support programmes to a one-off period of one year and to postpone the obligation to take a final decision until the shape of the future agricultural policy is known.
in writing. − in voting on the amendments to the regulation concerning the single payment scheme and support for vine growers, i was determined to support this project from the beginning of my study of the subject, as any proposed amendments are for the benefit of the producer only. the amendments provide for the possibility of granting aid to growers and, importantly, the provisions allow for transfers between sectors. in this case, the response to the industry's problems is much faster and will prevent negative consequences for growers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the present report concerning the administrative cooperation through imi system because the use of this internet tool for exchanging information between administrative bodies is very efficient and useful not only for administration, but also for average people. thanks to this system, we can easily obtain recognition of our qualifications or information concerning our business partners. (currently, imi is used for exchanging information covered by services directive as well as the professional qualifications directive. there is a pilot project aimed at determining if the imi system will be a suitable tool for exchanging information within the posting of workers directive.)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the efficient crossborder exchange of information between the different authorities in the member states is essential for the completion of the single market. however, i would like to draw attention to one point: the rapporteur, mr bielan, has stressed that article 13 of the proposal for a regulation introduces a data blocking procedure after 18 months from the closure of the administrative cooperation procedure in respect of personal data processed in imi and significantly extends the retention period of data from six months to five years. i agree with the rapporteur, mr bielan, who regretted that the amendment was introduced in the proposal without an impact assessment or a sufficient justification for the need for such a provision. the commission has not provided any sufficient data to justify the extension of the existing six-month period and therefore no data are available to assess whether the new extension will be in line with the applicable national data protection rules.
in writing. − the internal market information system (imi) was made available to member states in 2008 to improve the exchange of information in the internal market. however, imi lacks a single legal instrument, which is one of the main obstacles to its further expansion. the efficient exchange of information between authorities in the member states is crucial for the completion of the single market and therefore a set of common rules for the functioning of imi is necessary to increase its legal certainty. it will also allow for a better use of the potential of imi to the benefit of citizens and the internal market. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. - i supported the commission's work programme for 2013. the following issues require special attention: in the social dimension 1. combating unemployment, especially among young people; 2. addressing the widespread problem of poverty in the eu and promoting social integration and inclusion; in the equality dimension 1. implementing and monitoring the gender mainstreaming process in legislative and budgetary processes, in the lisbon strategy and in job creation programmes; 2. developing a comprehensive directive on preventing and combating violence against women; 3. reducing the gender pay gap; 4. developing an integration and migration policy with a gender perspective. it is necessary to streamline the process of implementing eu law and to propose actions in relation to the various proposals for blocked directives, such as the anti-discrimination directive. i also call on the council to integrate human rights and democracy effectively into its external policy. it is important that in the event of a flagrant violation of human rights by a partner country, the union takes a more bold action to impose sanctions provided for in the human rights clauses of the agreement, including the possibility of temporary suspension of the agreement. union programmes should contribute to the fulfilment by partner countries of their international human rights obligations.
in writing. − knowing that there is a black market for the online trade in gametes and that the possibilities for preventing such practices are limited, any initiative like the one we voted for has my full support. i agree that donation should be voluntary and that no financial consideration should be involved in the donor's decision. at the same time, member states should be made aware that the donation process should ensure that the health and safety standards of the donor are respected. let's promote similar initiatives for the good of the people.
in writing. - i consider mr yannakoudakis' report to be extremely important at a time when the demand for organs, blood and bone marrow is increasing and the current medical developments allow them to be used as effectively as possible to save lives. knowledge and trust in public institutions that collect information and biological data on potential donors is key to reducing the disparity between demand and supply of transplant material, which will naturally lead to a reduction in the trade in tissues and cells and in transplant tourism. clear rules on compensation and medical care for donors will also ensure the comfort and safety of those who choose to help save lives. we should also strongly emphasise the ethical dimension of voluntary donation and call on the ec and the member states to guarantee wider access to information on transplantation and donation. i also believe that, whatever the system in place in a member state for organ, tissue or cell donation after death (whether it is a system based on a declaration of will or a system based on the presumption of consent), the member states and the ec should undertake a wide-ranging information campaign to promote the possession of a declaration of will among the citizens of the union, as such a declaration is a clear signal to doctors and families that in the event of death we declare our willingness to be a donor.
in writing. − the report of the committee on women's rights and equalities is unacceptable because, once again, the report's thematic scope - in this case the green economy - is only a pretext for the european union to push forward again with ideas related to, among other things, parities for women in management positions. these matters should not be the subject of community regulation.
in writing. - i supported the ep resolution on improving working conditions for women in the service sector. nine out of ten jobs are now in the service sector. achieving the eu's headline target of 75% adult employment rate by 2020 requires bringing significant numbers of women into the labour market. today, the employment rate for women is 62.1% and for men 75.1%. in particular, i would like to stress the need to break down the level of segregation in the labour market, including through information campaigns, training and professional development programmes. in poland, women dominate low-paid but skilled and experienced professions, i.e. in administration, social care, education, medical care (nursing, midwifery). this is mainly due to the stereotypical division of work between men and women. in addition, women have to work on average four years longer than men to get promoted, and they earn on average 16.4% less than men. we need more eu projects to help women break stereotypes and take up education and careers in different sectors. i run such training for women as part of my project "polka potrafi" academy. it's a free training for women who want to be active, to be politically or socially active, to start their own businesses. the academy teaches you how to cope, what help you can get. i encourage everyone to create these kinds of help for women.
in writing. - i voted for improving the situation of women in the services sector by adopting amendments to the directive on pregnant workers and the proposed flexibility of working hours proposed by parliament. i think that progress in protecting the rights and improving the working conditions of pregnant women and workers who have recently given birth is important. protecting maternity and paternity from dismissal, reducing pay while on maternity leave and demoting to a lower position or reducing pay when returning to work are issues that require the highest possible standards. article 43 emphasises the situation of temporary and substitute workers, who will have the opportunity to benefit from rights reflecting the contribution of their work, which will be able to ensure equal treatment with other permanent workers. i agree that it is necessary to ensure a stronger work-life balance policy and in particular to increase and develop public social services infrastructure to increase childcare and other household dependants. the provision of such facilities can also have a significant impact on reducing poverty among women by enabling them to take up work.
in writing. − the report summarises the activities and developments in the field of education and training and their impact on the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. it outlined key findings and recommendations, such as the need to implement policy reforms and smart investments, increase transnational mobility and provide better access to the lifelong learning programme, which will allow for the upgrading of social skills and the effective fight against unemployment among both young people and those aged 50+. the rapporteur also stressed the importance of foreign language skills in the current context of education and the labour market. the importance of early learning and child development, the ageing population and the employment prospects for older people, the fight against early school leaving and the problem of poor access to scholarships for students, especially those from poorer backgrounds, were also discussed. i believe that all these issues require more attention and involvement of all stakeholders and the development of concrete, effective solutions. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i supported the report on education, training and the europe 2020 strategy. this is a very important report, and its effective implementation will help to increase employment, especially for women, young people and the long-term unemployed. member states must invest in science, i.e. education, lifelong learning, research and innovation and improvement of language skills. training and the education profile need to be better adapted to the needs of the labour market. it is important to increase the provision of education and career guidance, promote apprenticeships and vocational training for women, and create new training opportunities to increase employment opportunities in low-carbon and high-tech sectors. i support the proposal that member states should deduct investment in education and training from the budget deficit calculation under the fiscal compact, as this is recognised as a key driver of sustainable economic recovery in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i support the resolution on education, training and the europe 2020 strategy, as it contains important guidelines to help overcome the effects of the current crisis, mainly by stimulating economic growth and reducing social exclusion. the report emphasises the importance of providing all people with lifelong learning opportunities, regardless of age, disability, gender or belief. it also stresses the need to ensure that all children have access to quality early childhood care and education and to establish a system to prevent young people from dropping out of school prematurely. this is very important because in many regions of the european union, including in the kujawy-pomeranian region where i come from, the young people with the lowest qualifications are the main victims of the crisis. it is therefore essential that they can develop their skills and acquire language skills through easier access to schools and placements, which will improve their chances of finding a job.
in writing. − in an age when the internet is the most widespread tool for work and entertainment, intellectual property law must keep pace with consumer needs and technological developments. improving services in the audiovisual sector, by supporting online services, is of great importance for promoting european civilisation, linguistic and cultural diversity. european broadcasters finance more than 80% of the production of original audiovisual content and play a key role in promoting the european creative industries. it is important to provide both rightholders and recipients of works with legal certainty in relation to copyright in the european digital space through greater coordination of the laws of the member states. we already have rules for the free movement of goods and services across the union, but paradoxically they do not apply to the digital space, which is precisely the core of freedom and freedom from barriers. that's got to change. the commission should ask digital businesses across the union to allow the purchase of digital services in a member state other than the consumer's country of origin. in order to better protect artists from the illegal sharing of their works online, we need to offer consumers a competitive alternative. as of today, approximately 35.8% of movies are downloaded illegally, and as much as 98.8% of data downloaded using peer-to-peer networks is copyright infringing. consumers often have no convenient legal alternative, so they resort to illicit practices. we have to find a solution to this problem. i support and encourage the commission to continue its efforts to promote and improve access to european culture online.
in writing. − the audiovisual and film industries are not only a branch of the arts but also a market sector that provides many jobs in the eu. the economic contribution of the cultural and creative industries, expressed in terms of value added, is 2,5% of gdp. to ensure the further development of this market, we should create the conditions for the creation of audiovisual material and protect its creators. but we forget that in the age of the internet, the distribution and access to audiovisual material is increasingly done through illegal channels. consumers using these channels are often unaware of the importance of intellectual property rights. therefore, consumers should be adequately informed of any intellectual property law issues that may arise in connection with file sharing in cloud computing services. the widespread availability of audiovisual material should seem to increase the earnings of creators and performers of such material. however, the wages they receive are often very low. it is therefore worthwhile to look at ways of ensuring that authors and performers are adequately remunerated.
madam president! thank you for your words, and i think that you have really put a lot of effort into your work and you have seen some results, and that leads to some conclusions. the first conclusion, i think, is that the autumn in the east under the slogan "democracy" will be difficult, elections will be held in georgia and ukraine. we need political support, as i have already written to the president. we also need support for ngos, for community observation missions. if we want to take up this great historical game with the east again and say: 'yes, you have a chance to join the european union', we must now set out the criteria by which the elections will be judged. that's why the first word is democracy. the second thing that is very difficult and that you need to be personally involved in is freedom, especially in the context of religious freedom. we are very concerned about what is happening in syria. we cannot allow events in syria to be part of the final solution to the question of christians in the east, who have always been there and have their place there. i think you should have a say in this today. the third thing is energy, but there's no time for that.
the report on the structure of the union's foreign policy contained many provisions on the common security and defence policy and repeated calls for member states to step up defence cooperation and to implement the potential of the union's own arms policy. it is a little surprising that only one paragraph in this document is devoted to the dialogue of cultures and religions, when foreign policy is not only military action but also the dissemination of the values on which the european union is based. the provision to promote dialogue and understanding between different religions and cultures, which the report says 'should be an integral part of our external engagement in third countries', is not sufficient in the context of the mass persecution of christians in the world. mrs ashton's speech also lacked this thread. the european union, which has its christian roots, should give greater weight to this problem in the right proportions and with greater ambition.
madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate mr brok on his good and honest report, but i also thank the high representative for the open dialogue with us, and also the dialogue two days ago in cyprus with the heads of the foreign affairs and defence committees of the member states of the european union, including the delegation of the european parliament. what is needed, and what is happening in many conversations, including our conversations, for example with politicians outside europe, is that we are still unable to solve certain problems in europe. the americans, the chinese say, "well, you're doing great, you're doing great all over the world, but you still have unresolved problems in the caucasus, still the nagorno-karabakh problem, still the transnistria problem. these issues really should become the priorities of our foreign policy, the foreign policy of the european union for the coming months and years, because it is time to move forward on these issues. of course, we all realize that these often require very tough, difficult talks with russia.
madam president! i would like to thank the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, very warmly for this emphasis on the role of the european parliament in foreign and security policy. elmar brok said that crises are not overcome by tanks. i take this opportunity to congratulate him on his report. at the same time, i would like to stress that we as a union have some know-how. these include political dialogue, dialogue on human rights, humanitarian aid and development aid, and only as a last resort and possibly support for military intervention under a un mandate. i would like to stress that we have appointed an eu special representative for human rights and are at the same time finalising the establishment of a european endowment for democracy. these could be the instruments that representatives in mogadishu, somalia, for example, or in other parts of the world who want to build democracy, have asked for.
over 250,000 refugees, over 20,000 people killed, this is the drama that is happening right now in syria, and there is no end in sight. now, as we debate, that's also happening. the conflict, of course, makes us support the opposition, but we also have to realize that this conflict is less and less black and white, because there are more and more people out there whose goal is war, whose goal is just to keep this conflict going. minorities in syria are also at risk, including religious minorities, christians. if it weren't for the blocking of the un security council resolution by russia and others, we might have been a lot closer to resolving this conflict. but in this room, we're going to talk about russia joining the wto. perhaps this is the moment when we should also say that a country that wants to join the wto should not block peaceful solutions, including in syria. we realize that we are not in a position to resolve this in this room, but our concern should, so to speak, reach those who have the decision in their hands.
in writing. a few months ago, i asked the high representative how she saw the possibility of a change of position between russia and china on the syrian intervention. we cannot stand by and watch president assad's bloody crackdown on his opponents. over 20,000 people have died. the lack of effective engagement of western democracies also allows extremist movements to grow. we should do everything in our power to convince china and russia to drop their blockade of the un security council's decision. every day that we delay this decision, we condemn syria to a further and further detachment from the implementation of the ideas of peace, stability, development, respect for law and human rights. we're condemning this entire country to slow death.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: today you have had the opportunity to hear a great deal of critical and hurtful words about russia's behaviour in the international arena (in syria, in georgia). you are right, as you said in your speech, that we too have a lot to blame ourselves for and a lot of problems related to the internal situation in russia. to all that you have said, to these new issues you have mentioned, to the new laws that restrict freedom and human rights there, i would add one more that you have not mentioned, namely the situation of mrs osipova (whom you certainly know), convicted for alleged possession of drugs. there are old unsolved cases, like the khodorowsky and magnickie cases. there are new things you've been talking about. i have good news for you. today the negotiations on this resolution that we are talking about ended, they ended four hours ago and there was actually no special discussion because all the political groups were in agreement. that means that you have a strong mandate from the european parliament to demand respect for rights, freedom and democracy in russia, which i sincerely hope you will do, and please remember that you have the support of the whole european parliament and all its groups, i hope.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. russia's judiciary, which should remain independent, is a perfect tool for the authorities to hammer hard sentences on dissenters in remote siberian detention centers or to wash away inconvenient cases by leaving them unresolved for years. the russian security services and prosecutors have not been able to find and prosecute the killers of anna politkovskaya and natalia estimirowa. there are also very worrying signs in the case of the russian election monitoring organization golos. the moscow court sentenced her to a fine of 30,000 rubles. it is worrying that a draft has appeared that would give the constitutional court of the russian federation the right to block the execution of judgments of the european court of human rights. the essential question is how the european external action service has responded to these cases of lawlessness and subversion of the rule of law. in light of these events, the conviction of the pussy riot members, whose vulgar actions have also offended thousands of christians around the world, can only be considered in the context of the severity, not the justification, of the punishment imposed. that's not the lawlessness and totalitarian nature of the kremlin regime.
mr. chairman, please! russia's accession to the world trade organization will certainly intensify economic relations between russia and the west, and in particular the european union. trade - although very important - is not all we expect, both here in europe, in the european parliament, and in the growing masses of russians. i had the opportunity to meet and talk with them during two visits during my vacation in st. petersburg. what do we expect from russian-european relations? we have the right and expect that russia will not only become more and more liberal economically, but that it will become more and more democratic and european, including in the dimension of civil liberties. unfortunately, recent events have contradicted this trend. things in russia are going in the opposite direction, the wrong direction. the repression faced by opposition activists, i will mention only mr navalny and mr kasparov, the tightening of the law against ngos, the restriction of activity and freedom on the internet, and finally this disproportionate sentence for the crime that took place, imposed on rockers from a punk band, are just the latest evidence of how badly the situation is developing in russia. and yet justice is also called for in the cases of the strange trial of mr. khodorkovsky or the unexplained death of mr. magnitsky. it's time to start talking about trade with russia, not just trade, but human rights, civil liberties. it's time for the magnicky list, which is the "vis ban" list for people who are involved in the death of this brave lawyer.
i have received six draft resolutions. see the minutes of the meeting. lodged in accordance with rule 110 (2). i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on: the report by pat the cope on behalf of the committee on fisheries on specific measures to protect fish stocks in relation to states allowing unsustainable fishing (com (2011) 0888 c7-0508/2011 2011/0434 ((cod)) (a7-0146/2012); the report by struan stevenson on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products (com (2011) 0164) c7-0197/2011 (cod) 2011/0194 (a7-0217/2012); the report by carl haglund on behalf of the committee on fisheries on specific measures to protect fish stocks in relation to states allowing unsustainable fishing (com (2011) 0888) c7-0508/2011 (cod)) (a7-0146/2012); the report by nicola sala (a7-02522) on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products (com (2011) 0164) 0164); the report by nicola sala (a7-0252) on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the common organisation of the market in fisheries (com (2011-0189) (com (2011) 0254-0180); a7-0253222); the report by the committee on the common organisation of the common organisation of the market in fisheries sector (com (2011-0252-0189-019) (com (2011);
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in congratulating all the rapporteurs, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate mr struan stevenson on the enormous amount of work he has put into the preparation of his report. it is commendable that the rapporteur has held many meetings, not only with the counter-rapporteurs and with the members of parliament concerned, but also with a large number of fishermen, representatives of the industry, scientists, and i thank him in particular for this. the report focuses on the future of small-scale fisheries, which play a vital role in the economies of the european union countries. these are mainly family businesses, which are extremely sensitive to the behaviour and the deterioration of the common market. in a clash with industrial fishing, the loser will always be a single fisherman. i hope that this report will not only help to preserve small-scale fisheries, but also to create opportunities for competition and to preserve the diversity of the fishing industry.
mr. chairman, please! in today's debate, we are discussing the first reports of the revision package of the common fisheries policy. this policy should guarantee the sustainable development of the marine environment, fish resources, fishermen and related industries, as well as coastal communities. at least that's the theory. in practice, however, as scientists and politicians, but above all fishermen, are well aware, the current policy has many shortcomings. fortunately, work on reforming the old fisheries policy is gathering pace. i would like to say a few words about the report by mr stevenson. it's a very good report. the new rules strengthen the role of producer organisations and this is a very good solution. the project provides for the creation of production and sales plans that give real opportunities to producers to become real actors in the management of production and turnover. thank you for your work, and i look forward to working with you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (wednesday, 12 september 2012). written statements (rule 149)
in writing. a properly managed maritime policy, which significantly improves the competitiveness of the fisheries sector, can have a positive impact on the functioning of the eu economy as a whole, and the establishment of a maximum sustainable yield (msy) threshold will allow for the rational exploitation of fisheries resources and the establishment of a stable multiannual strategy for the sector. the introduction of conservation measures on issues such as the prohibition of discards or the landing of all fish in port will have a positive impact on the ecosystems of the water bodies used and the survival of endangered fish species. the common fisheries policy must also include provisions to ensure that threats such as piracy and poaching are eliminated. full synergy between the cap and other policies, such as environmental policy and cohesion policy, will improve economic prosperity throughout the community, and especially in regions where the economy is mainly based on this industry.
in writing. fish stocks in europe are projected to be depleted in the coming decades. fishing policies are still not sufficiently coordinated, which means that many species are already on the verge of extinction, including the most popular ones, such as salmon and tuna. therefore, urgent action is needed to prevent this ecological disaster and the voluntary deprivation of humanity of its diversity. it is therefore necessary to draw up immediately multiannual plans to ensure the management of fisheries in an orderly manner, to increase the financial resources for research and fisheries, and to strictly control compliance with the fishing ban during conservation periods. however, the diversity and specificity of the individual european seas must be taken into account when drawing up the legal rules. the fishermen and producers who will be deprived of income as a result of the new regulations must not be forgotten. the new budget should therefore provide for compensation for those who will suffer the economic and social consequences of the reform.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. it is absolutely embarrassing that there is a situation where the victim of a crime is in a worse legal position than the perpetrator, than the perpetrator. i therefore welcome this initiative very much and thank both the commission and the rapporteurs for their fantastic work. the basic objective of guaranteeing protection for victims of crime throughout the union is a major challenge for our parliament and the european institutions. this naturally entails the recognition by the courts and public institutions of the member states also of civil protection measures, as this is a process based on mutual trust in the justice systems. in the legal affairs committee of the european parliament, we are working step by step to enable and facilitate civil law cooperation in a cross-border context, so that it is increasingly convenient for individual citizens. i'm glad to see the progress we're making. but i have to point out one very important fact: if citizens are to benefit from something, they need to know about it. i therefore once again call on the commissioner, on the european commission through the commissioner, and on the representatives of the member states to conduct a well-thought-out information policy so that people know what safeguards they can use and feel safer in a common europe.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to stress once again today the importance of ensuring that victims of a wide range of crimes receive appropriate protection and support during criminal proceedings, and that they are treated with respect and dignity. equally important, they should be able to count on redress, justice and protection against the repetition of offences, regardless of the member state in which the offence is committed and whether the victims are nationals of that country or not. all this is guaranteed in the directive which the european parliament will be voting on tomorrow. among the provisions of the directive, those that deserve special attention are: the introduction of a uniform definition of 'victim', according to which the status of victim is conferred not only on the injured persons but also on their close family members, and the definition of 'victim of gender-based violence' and 'victim of intimate partner violence'; the introduction of the necessary arrangements for effective coordination between victim support bodies by creating formal and informal structures enabling staff of judicial bodies, law enforcement bodies and non-governmental organisations to co-operate normally and guaranteeing victims access to free psychological, legal and translation and interpretation services. this is undoubtedly a very important step towards the harmonisation of law at european level and above all an expression of concern for citizens throughout europe.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the policy of regulating the sugar market in europe has so far been a failure. we're paying a lot more for sugar than we did a few years ago. production in some european union countries has been destroyed, and poland is a prime example. in some areas of traditional sugar beet producers, such as the kazimierz district in świętokrzyskie voivodeship, the cultivation has been completely stopped. we can talk about destroying this branch of agriculture. this has led to increased unemployment in these areas, and poland has to buy more than 300,000 tonnes of sugar a year instead of being an exporter. the decline in production is 600,000 tons. the commission's current proposals go in the opposite direction. it is proposed that the market be liberalised immediately. i ask you, therefore, whether the european commission does not foresee that this could result in the strengthening of the position of the big players on the european market and at the same time the complete destruction of small producers? is it not appropriate to gradually move away from the current system in order not to cause another shock to the market? and finally, is not raising the current limits a better solution than immediate liberalization?
mr president, i should like to ask president barroso a question about the banking union. there is clearly a short-term dimension to it. breaking the banking sovereign loop requires both urgency and pragmatism and reaching out for visible solutions now. but we also need to take into account the long-term perspective on the banking union, and we must do it now. so yes, the banking union certainly must be designed in such a way that it works towards deepening the integration of the single market, because the euro area cannot be sustainable if the disintegration of the single market continues. but there is a second long-term perspective here and an even more considerable risk for a sustainable euro area, and here i am thinking of the way the opt-in mechanism for non-euro member states is designed. we risk putting them on a path towards separation; we risk a path towards disintegration. so my question is, as this must not be allowed: how do you want to protect us from this risk of fragmentation?
blue-card question. – mr president, i am sorry to say it but i am disappointed that mr callanan was following mr farage’s line of argument about holding the referendum. let us hold the referendum! do not take the responsibility from your shoulders! are you really ready to take responsibility for keeping your country, the united kingdom, outside the new, transformed, more united europe? are you ready for that? you, mr callanan and your conservative party in great britain?
in writing. the european union's current problem is that it is trying to fight the crisis by drastically reducing public spending in order to reduce budget deficits. so by forcing savings, yes, for a while, we can improve the overall state of public finances. but we are also limiting the opportunities for growth, which threatens to deepen the crisis and recession on a large scale. some member states are also pushing the ideology of reducing public spending at the level of the eu budget in the new financial perspective to 2020. it is difficult to understand such a policy in the current economic situation, given that eu funds are a major stimulus, not only from the demand side but also through mechanisms to raise them, such as co-financing and the requirement to create jobs, i.e. by focusing on new enterprises. unfortunately, instead of a genuine strategy for growth and jobs, we still have proposals to deepen integration and to deprive the member states of further spheres of sovereignty. that is why i am opposed to the idea of creating a common supervision of banks or even a banking union. it is unrealistic, and even irritating, in this context to call for the creation of a new european treaty under which the eu institutions would take full control of national budgets, ultimately depriving the member states of the tools to manage their own economies.
in writing. a few weeks ago, angela merkel called for work to begin on a new constitutional treaty that would make the union more efficient and bring it closer to its citizens. however, it seems that the opportunities offered by the existing treaties should be exploited rather than new ones being prepared. the second wave of the crisis is more likely to stem from the lack of credibility of the union and its member states, and this will not be exacerbated by months of dispute over institutional solutions. we have to act today, we have to make decisions today. as the crisis enters its fifth year, we can already say that the european response is not working. the measures taken by greece, portugal, spain and italy are not working and have a huge social cost. the ecb president's announcement last week of indirect support for these countries may therefore be a source of optimism. however, without the union and its member states regaining their credibility, the tide of crisis will not be broken. i would therefore like to ask president barroso two questions. first, what measures does the commission intend to take to assist the european central bank in its activities? secondly, how do you assess berlin's proposals, particularly the one to move away from an increased 95% share of eu funds in the projects being implemented?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the european union should put all its citizens at the centre of its considerations about the future. further eu integration is possible and desirable, provided, however, that we are able to provide citizens with what has been at the heart of the integration processes: peace and security, protection of values important to citizens and increased prosperity. it is worth remembering that the eu's most important and inalienable values are christian in inspiration. the union stands for dignity, freedom and solidarity. the proposal to develop the eu as a federation of nation states is criticized, among other things, from a radically federalist position. the true federalists don't want a federation of nation states. they want, as they have said quite openly, the eu as a post-national structure. in this context, president barroso's proposal is moderate and, for many meps, even conservative. a post-national federation is, in my opinion, impossible today for a very large number of reasons. many european nations simply do not want or imagine a post-national europe. secondly, the economic situation of the eu countries prevents the necessary harmonisation of many parameters that would need to be uniform across the federation, such as the minimum wage, the minimum pension, the minimum income for social assistance, the retirement age and the free health care basket. regardless of the ideology preferred, the unification of the standards necessary for a federal form seems impossible to achieve in the foreseeable future.
in writing. the future of the european union is first and foremost the future of its children and young people. how can we expect young people to want to build a community that doesn't provide for their basic needs? more than one third of 15-24 year olds are not in education or in the labour market. one quarter of those under 25 are unemployed, and in greece and spain they account for almost half of their age group. more than 25% of the young unemployed have not found a job in the last year or more. national labour markets offer them largely temporary work, at a wage disproportionately low to their education and qualifications. they could look for work abroad but are often afraid to take up the opportunity. their fear might reduce the need to travel during their studies, but this means that most of them have to sacrifice their own financial resources, and this is mainly the case for those living in large urban centres. how can all young people believe in our common european project in such a situation? how can they trust us when we call for further sacrifice while talking about equality and democracy?
in writing. the crisis has lasted for four and a half years. we've reached the point where we can't wander around in the fog anymore. the measures taken so far have not had the desired effect. economists are sounding the alarm as the risk of a widening and worsening crisis increases. fortunately, europeans have not lost faith in the eu project. last week's barometer showed that 40% of people are positive about the eu. the european parliament was cited by the majority of respondents as a recognisable and trustworthy eu institution. as in previous polls, citizens expect the ep to fight effectively against poverty, social exclusion and unemployment. parliament must therefore be fully involved in the implementation and monitoring of the pact for growth and jobs. in particular, the question of increasing employment must be addressed as soon as possible. i would therefore urge the council to examine the commission's employment package in a timely manner so that new jobs can be created. i welcome the adoption of the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy and the related action plan at the last council meeting. they should provide the guidelines for the work of the hr, allowing the union to speak with one voice in the field of human rights.
in writing. in his speech today, president barroso called for further integration, a single economic and financial management, a new european treaty and a closer federation. although he used the term 'federation of nation states', he meant further strengthening the eu institutions and stripping the nation states of their competences. the theory of optimal currency areas provides a good explanation of when it is profitable to introduce a single currency. but the introduction of the euro was not based on rational premises, but on political hopes - hopes that the single currency would pave the way to a single european state. now it is clear that the euro project is not working and like a convict is awaiting execution. this could not have happened as long as there were distinct peoples, cultures, languages and communities in europe. the euro crisis is therefore not just an economic crisis, but a symbol of the crisis of the whole concept of european federation. so is further integration a good thing? no, i'm not going. we need to take a step back. if we are thinking of a new treaty, we have to go back to the treaty of nice. we need to start reducing the eu's powers and shifting responsibility to national governments. we need cooperation between states in europe, not one state run from brussels. the further federalisation of europe will strengthen the strong centres and marginalise the weak, creating a two-speed europe, a continent of losers and winners. the shape of the crisis makes it easier to pinpoint the former.
the lisbon treaty was to give the common security and defence policy a new status. however, i think that progress in this area is very weak and slow. there's a lot more intent, a lot more incentive. unfortunately, very few hard facts. the extreme manifestation of this impotence is the activity of the combat groups in europe. so far, none of these groups have been used for a number of years. you could say that these battle groups look very nice, but only on paper. we are making a mistake in europe by giving so little space to military cooperation. joint planning and joint conduct of military missions and operations is needed on a much larger scale. we need to link up military activities, and we need to cooperate much more broadly in terms of research and industry for the military. i would strongly encourage the european commission to take a much more active role in this area.
mr. chairman, please! i abstained from the vote. the report makes a number of important points, such as the need to make better use of the common foreign and security policy budget and the problem of diversifying energy sources. the support for brussels' critical stance towards moscow and the emphasis on the strategic importance of the eastern partnership is also clear. the eu also agreed to a compromise clause on taiwan, recognising its commitment to regional stability. however, the report essentially calls for a stronger role for the european external action service and identifies common defence as one of the objectives. i would like to point out that there is still a huge disparity between the polish representatives employed in european diplomacy. in addition, the document calls on member states to request a permanent seat for the european union in the reformed un security council. these are proposals i cannot agree to.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for this report because i believe it is a strategic and ambitious document. i believe that it is right and proper to recognise the development of the neighbourhood policy as one of the key objectives of the common foreign and security policy. i welcome the emphasis on cooperation with the eastern partnership countries. i also hope that, despite the worrying developments in the countries belonging to the southern dimension of the neighbourhood policy, the appropriate balance will be maintained and the eastern dimension will continue to be treated with due seriousness. finally, i would like to stress that i consider the appeal to the high representative to provide sufficient funding to support additional election monitoring missions in ukraine to be extremely necessary and relevant.
mr. chairman, please! like many of my colleagues speaking in this part of our debate, i supported the report by elmar brok on the annual report on the common foreign and security policy. this new position of foreign and defence policy in the lisbon treaty gives us new prerogatives, but at the same time i would like to point out that many events linked, among others, to a number of crises, including the economic crisis, have weakened the interest, in particular, of our neighbours, both our neighbours in europe and europe's neighbours. the arab spring countries, egypt, are preparing a new constitution. we're not interested enough in what it's going to look like. eastern partnership: elections are coming up in ukraine and georgia; frozen conflicts are also waiting to be resolved, such as the transnistrian conflict and the nagorno-karabakh conflict, as well as the question of abkhazia and ossetia. i see such, i would say, fatigue, for example, with the affairs of ukraine, because not everything we have managed to solve. i therefore believe that parliament should not, however, alter or diminish its interest in these neighbourhood issues. neighborhood issues are too important to us.
in writing. − strengthening the rights of victims of crime is inextricably linked to improving the situation of victims across the eu, regardless of their nationality or the place of the crime. in this respect, poland's interests coincide with those of the other member states of the european union. the costs of this decision are certainly high for europe, but the value of human life is far more precious, and i therefore applaud the work carried out by teresa jiménez-becerril barrio. the work on the document was challenging, due to differences in the legal systems of the member states, including the definition of victims of crime. however, i welcome the final shape of the document, which has been achieved through compromises. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the effort they have put into this report.
in writing. - crimes can vary greatly. however, they all have one thing in common: they are all victims of violence. the draft directive refers to them as victims of crime and it is on them that we should focus our attention. it is vital that such persons have confidence in the justice system. therefore, a transparent and uniform legal act should exist in the european union guaranteeing victims of crime, regardless of their origin and the country in which the crime was committed, a minimum guarantee of protection of their rights. i agree with the rapporteur that, in order to take all possible steps to better protect the rights of victims of violence, a european network for monitoring victims and assistance to them should be established to create a statistical database on the number, age, gender and nationality of victims. this information could certainly be used in further legislative work. it is also essential that officers who deal with victims of violence are able to provide specialist support and assistance. so i agree that they should be trained, in consultation with ngos, to deal with the victim in the appropriate way, depending on the type of crime.
in writing. − this proposed directive seeks to establish minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. i welcome the fact that it will create eu-wide basic standards as to what will happen if an eu citizen is the victim of crime anywhere in the eu. this means, for example, that eu citizens will have the right to receive a copy of their crime statement at a police station in their own language, information on where to go if they need medical help or emotional support, etc. also, for the first time, the definition of a victim has been broadened to include the family of a person who is murdered or who dies in a terrorist attack. i also welcome the fact that the proposals include a ‘children’s rights package’, which will establish a set of minimum standards for child victims.
in writing. - the directive setting minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime has my full support. first, this directive will strengthen the rights of victims by providing them with additional support as well as protection. secondly, it will help european citizens to gain confidence in the justice system. it will also allow for deeper cooperation and increased coordination between member states through the establishment of formal and informal cooperation structures. such a coordinated approach to victims will help to minimise the negative impact of crime.
in writing. - unfortunately, practice still shows that in many cases the victim has fewer rights than the perpetrator. he spends less time with her, forgets her rights. i therefore welcome the decision of the european parliament today to change this. my main goal as minister of justice was to put the rights of victims, the rights of ordinary people, before the rights of bandits and criminals. i hope that this decision will be implemented as soon as possible and that member states will finally guarantee full protection of the rights of victims.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? polish farmers are a large group of food producers in the european union. in my region too, the advantage of agriculture is very clear. i therefore attach great importance to any action to ensure favourable regulations for the marketing of agricultural products, including the appropriate level of tariff quotas. i believe that it is desirable to involve the european parliament more closely in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts in this area. i also welcome the extension of the deadline for objections to the drafts of these acts to four months. like my whole political group, i accept the technical changes proposed by the commission, combined with the rapporteur's position ensuring the broad powers of the parliamentary committee on foreign trade in this area. i support the report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i strongly believe that the european parliament must be involved in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts and support the prolongation of the period for possible objections to draft delegated acts from two to four months. i understand mr moreira’s position concerning the removal of references concerning the committee procedure to the future aligned single cmo regulation and the insertion of such provisions directly into this amending regulation because this will ensure that the right of scrutiny of implementing acts necessary for the administration of the quota arrangements mentioned in this regulation remains within the remit of the committee on international trade.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 774/94 governs certain community quotas for certain meat and cereal products. this regulation confers powers on the european commission in this field. those powers should finally be aligned with the system of delegated and implementing acts established by the treaty of lisbon. that is why i am in favour of the regulation.
in writing. - the european union has many institutions, each with specific competences. their distribution is intended to help the eu function better. with the end of the three-pillar structure, a reform of the union's derived law was necessary. the treaty of lisbon did this by dividing the category of legal acts into legislative and non-legislative acts. the subject of my comments is delegated and implementing acts which are classified by the treaty on the functioning of the european union as non-legislative acts, as provided for in articles 290 and 291 tfeu. each of these has been established for a specific purpose. delegated acts are intended to supplement non-essential elements of legislative acts. they are issued by the ec on the basis of powers conferred on it by a legislative act. that act should specify the powers conferred on the commission. the second type i have mentioned is implementing acts, which are designed to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of legally binding union acts. the responsibility for the effective implementation of eu law lies primarily with the member states, but where uniform conditions for the implementation of legally binding union acts are necessary, those acts confer implementing powers on the commission or the council of the eu. i am in favour of the proposal to bring the three council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey into line with the provisions of the tfeu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of mr moreira’s report and the proposed amendments to the commission’s proposal. these reflect the changes brought about by the two trade omnibuses: insertion of new recitals on implementing acts/delegated acts into the basic legal acts; limitation of the conferral of the delegated powers on the commission to the period of five years, tacitly extendable by a period of identical duration; and the extension of possible prolongation of the period for objection to a draft delegated act from two to four months, thereby extending the period of scrutiny from four months (2+2) to six months (2+4). i support the involvement of the european parliament during the preparation of delegated acts.
in writing. - the three regulations governing imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey should be brought into line with the system of delegated and implementing acts introduced by the lisbon treaty. to that end, provisions on committee procedure should be added to each of those regulations. this will allow the international trade commission to scrutinise the implementing acts based on those regulations. that is why i voted for the regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am confident that the agreement amending the mutual recognition agreement (mra) will lift technical barriers to trade between the eu and australia while safeguarding our health, safety and environmental objectives. in 2010, eu exports equalled eur 26.7 billion while eu imports from australia were worth eur 9.8 billion. trade between our economies had been growing steadily until 2009 when this trend was reversed due to the global economic crisis. for this reason, we need to do everything in our power to remove unnecessary restrictions on trade. it would also be beneficial for both sides if we could reduce the administrative burden related to management of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the aim of these amendments is to improve and simplify the application of the agreement with australia. the amendments introduced will increase the flexibility of the agreement and also remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties. the amendments will reduce the administrative burden of the application of the agreement and will facilitate and clarify its application. nor are there any financial implications of the changes.
in writing. - the european union must be open not only to regions that are geographically close, but also to countries from further afield. this is why numerous bilateral agreements are signed between the eu and third countries. the agreement with new zealand is an example of such effective cooperation. the removal of trade barriers is a good thing and opens up new opportunities for the eu to trade. moreover, the new agreement does not impose any new financial costs on the eu. this is all the more positive and opens up many opportunities for eu countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. the eu remains an important trading partner for new zealand. our exports are mainly cars, medicaments, machinery, telecommunication equipment, transport material, and chemicals and in 2010 eu goods exports to new zealand amounted to eur 2.7 billon. goods imports from new zealand equalled eur 2.8 billion. because of the global recession, we must place particular emphasis on improving existing agreements in order to foster our trade. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am confident that the agreement amending the mutual recognition agreement (mra) will lift technical barriers to trade between the eu and new zealand while safeguarding our objectives in terms of health, environment, and safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union should have the means to take appropriate measures against those countries that fish unsustainably. this should even include the ability to impose quantitative restrictions on imports of fish into the eu from these countries. when imposing these restrictions, the commission should evaluate environmental, trade, economic and social effects of the measures to ensure that they are proportionate and compatible with international trade. the parliament should be informed of this evaluation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report since, among other things, it helps clarify the necessary information that must be given to the consumer on fisheries products, introduces the requirement for the commission to develop an eu wide eco-label for sustainable fishery products and creates a new regional advisory council for the outermost regions. i support efforts to reward sustainable fishing practices with an eu eco-label. for this reason, the commission should establish minimum rules for eco-labelling and possibly introduce its own eco-label, to make it more recognisable and acceptable to the sector and to the public. it is important for consumers to be able to make an informed choice and they should be clear about which fisheries products have been frozen and defrosted, particularly with regard to ‘fresh fish’ products.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. in doing so, i continue my efforts to focus on the future role and objectives of producer organisations (pos). introduced as a counter-balance to the power of retailers, pos have been effective in ensuring realistic prices for the catches landed by their members; however i firmly believe they must be given the correct tools to enable themselves to regulate the activity of their members more effectively. therefore pos should play a more meaningful role in the day-to-day management of fisheries under a more regionalised system. the strengthening and economic viability of existing pos is equally important. moreover, criteria must be clearly defined on the minimum number of members and criteria for the formal recognition of pos need to be increased to encourage them to be big enough to be relevant on the market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it underlines several issues of tremendous importance for the eu’s foreign policy. i wholeheartedly agree when we underline that the us is the most important strategic partner for the eu. i believe that we must ardently foster this relationship with our american ally. in our report, we explicitly state that the eastern neighbourhood is of strategic importance and highlight that all decisions concerning the eastern partnership should be accompanied by the allocation of adequate financial resources. we also note the growing discontent expressed by many russian citizens and underline our willingness to contribute to the partnership for modernisation and to any successor to the current partnership and cooperation agreement which should be linked to russia’s progress regarding human rights, rule of law and pluralist democracy. in terms of the association agreement with central america, which will be signed shortly, i welcome that we indicate our intention to closely monitor the implementation of the agreement and its impact on the situation for human rights and the rule of law. i emphasise this because we need to do everything in our power to monitor and promote human rights in cuba.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report by elmar brok. it comprehensively addresses the key issues of the common foreign and security policy. in particular, i welcome the provisions on better use of capabilities and financial resources and on improving eu-nato cooperation in order to avoid duplication. i also believe that it is necessary to emphasise the importance of the eastern partnership for the eu. it is also worth noting the recognition of taiwan's efforts to maintain peace and stability in the asia-pacific region.
in writing. - it is difficult to overestimate the importance of the introduction and supervision of the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources for the whole fisheries sector. many factors, including those not caused by humans (e.g. climate), affect this. that is why it is so important that the time is right for what we voted for in parliament (my vote in favour) to be put into effect as soon as possible and to allow a long-term management plan for all eu industrial fisheries to work. it should be borne in mind that the stability of the future fisheries sector will enable new generations of fishermen to access it. i can always count on my support for any form of job creation for european society.
in writing. - i strongly supported the report by mr salavrakos on the common fisheries policy. the proposed solutions will facilitate fisheries control and the fight against illegal fishing. given the legal sanctions system adopted, greater interstate cooperation in this area can be expected.
in writing. - i have studied the reform of the common fisheries policy very carefully, because of its strategic importance for the supply of fish to the population, and i therefore voted in full conscience in favour of this resolution. the commission's concern for responsible fishing, the fight against unethical fishing (many fish stocks are still overfished) and, above all, the consideration of biological, ecological, economic and social aspects make it worthy of support. i am convinced that a well-regulated fisheries and aquaculture sector will make a major contribution to the european public's well-being.
mr. chairman, please! i will start with the european dimension. i am really surprised, even surprised, by the speech of mr watson, one of the leaders of the liberal democrats in this house, who says that the majority has the right to dictate, the majority has the right to decide what the truth is. well, mr. watson, the basis of liberal democracy is that minority rights are protected. and now we have a situation where the majority in romania is dismissing the ombudsman, making changes, challenging the work of the constitutional court, wanting to dismiss the president. the majority is wrong just because it's the majority. right is where the right is, not because the majority has it. i want to say one thing: there is no comparison between romania and hungary. in hungary, the socialist party, with its once liberal ally, has brought the country to ruin. it was rejected by the overwhelming majority of the nation, and that was obvious. two-thirds of the parliament has been given to the fides party. and now those two-thirds had the constitutional right to make constitutional amendments. there's a big difference between two-thirds constitutional and half or no half in a referendum to make changes like, say, impeaching the president. it's not like it's the romanian exception. in poland, too, a referendum is only valid if half of the citizens participate, because the principle of democracy is the term of office, and either we defend these principles, or we have arbitrariness and steppe customs whoever is stronger, he takes power. but this is not a european custom, it's a steppe custom. and socialists, liberals, remember that! (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! the eurozone crisis has shown how fragile the european banking system is. the announcement of the single banking supervision project, and subsequently the creation of the banking union, prompted my delegation to address an interpellation to the european commission on this matter. we are concerned above all about the conditions under which non-euro area countries, such as poland, whose government has already expressed its willingness to give up part of its sovereignty - perhaps too hastily. we await a detailed response from the commission on the functioning of the forced mechanism and the decision-making process, which includes so-called voluntary non-euro area members. the question is simple: what will these countries mean? will they have a say and what will they be able to influence? i fear that if there is closer integration in the banking area in the euro area, the impact will also be felt by financial institutions outside the euro area, because we are dealing in the world today with a situation of very wide and close capital links. we therefore call for a very detailed and careful decision to be taken in this matter in the course of further work, and for the importance of those countries which form the european community but which do not belong to the euro area today to be taken into account. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask you, from whose lips and where did you hear the preliminary announcement, as you said, of the polish government's acceptance of joining the banking union as an observer, because there is no such announcement yet. there's no union, so there's no rush. the government, and not just the government, but any representative of the polish government, did not take a binding vote on this matter.
answer the question by raising the blue card. please listen to what i have to say. i specifically said that in their statements, the government representatives expressed a willingness to take an interest in the matter, a willingness to consider it, not to make a decision. there is no decision, but it is a kind, benevolent, open-minded approach. there's a subtle but obvious difference.
i'm not going to let you do this. thank you very much for this initiative. we need a common banking union, a european union, common standards, common banking concessions, common deposit guarantees. but my question is this, and i would like a very specific answer, why can't we have them in common? why does it have to be the ecb, and why can't we do it in the framework of the european banking authority, which is not only common to the euro area but also to the european union? after all, the problems - both inside and outside the euro area - are exactly the same.
this debate is really very interesting. if i could, i would also ask for the floor but i cannot, and that is why i would like to ask commissioner de gucht to conclude the debate on behalf of the commission.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow (thursday, 13 september 2012).
the next item is the report by krišjānis kariņš, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council setting up an information exchange mechanism with regard to intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries in the field of energy (com(2011)0540 – c7-0235/2011 – 2011/0238(cod)) (a7-0264/2012).
on behalf of the ecr group. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the proposal. building an open and competitive gas market in europe is not something that some of our partners like. in recent years, the principle of equal access to the transmission infrastructure for different entities and the freedom to re-export purchased gas has been openly challenged by russia, which would like privileges. gasprom would probably have been able to cope in a competitive market, but like any state-owned enterprise, it is eager to protect its monopoly position, which in the face of the underdeveloped market in central europe can dictate prices and contractual rules contrary to the rules of a competitive market. intergovernmental agreements, whose sole purpose is to circumvent the rules of the common market, are a key tool in the cultivation of such unfair competition. a few months ago, we had an opportunity to strengthen the protection of our gas market by introducing mechanisms to control such contracts. despite the rapporteur's best efforts, that is the opportunity we have lost.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the crisis in natural gas supplies to europe at the end of the previous decade showed the union's weakness and exposed its exposure to such events. it is true that many measures have been taken to increase the security of energy supply to the european market (see the 'security of supply' regulation and the measures taken to build the single internal market). the draft decision on the exchange of information in intergovernmental agreements proposed by the commission required clarification. i would like to emphasise that it was during the polish-russian gas negotiations that the commission had legitimate complaints about the terms of the negotiated contracts set by the supplier and raised allegations of failure to provide full information. the effect of these actions, and this can be emphasised, is that poland is probably the only country in the union which has developed a functioning, and as it has proved to be very effective, information exchange mechanism with the commission. the draft decision voted in july in the itre committee contains provisions to enable the commission to support the implementation of transnational projects, such as the commission's proposed or ongoing talks on gas supplies in the caspian sea region. the union's energy balance in the light of the proposed open and free energy market cannot be disrupted by irresponsible or ill-considered bilateral decisions, and therefore member states should share information on intergovernmental agreements concluded and the commission should be aware of the existence of agreements and negotiations.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. vladimir putin, by ordering businesses of strategic importance to russia to coordinate with the government when faced with demands from other countries or international organizations, has shown why we need this legislation. his decision not to cooperate with the commission is an affront to the european union and its legislation. it's a sign that russia has something to hide about their gas contracts. we can't let this go unnoticed. the new intergovernmental agreement law is an important first step towards joint action and information sharing by the eu countries. this will increase our chances of working within the european union, but also at a fair price from russia. i regret that the legislation we are adopting has not gone a few steps further, by forcing even closer cooperation in the exchange of information between countries. the council has allowed national interests to prevail over european energy solidarity. i hope that russia's denial of the third energy package and its statements forbidding gazprom from sharing any information will cause the council to reconsider its position. i would like the council to make future amendments to the legislation it adopts as soon as possible. countries that cooperate with the european union must respect our laws, and russia is no exception.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with the rapporteur that our priorities should include simplifying and developing the existing system and adding new quality definitions that can add value to the best european products. i hope that the proposals we are discussing will contribute to improving the complex existing system, and that this will be a positive step, but certainly not the last step. as we all know, european agriculture provides us with a wide variety of food, produced using many different methods, but with respect for the environment and rural communities. it would be good if both farmers and especially consumers were aware of these special features of their own food. moreover, this quality-oriented approach is likely to help to strengthen the presence of high-quality products on both national and international markets.
in writing. quality assurance systems for agricultural products have a specific role to play in strengthening clear rules of competition, providing consumers with reliable product information, ensuring adequate protection of intellectual property rights and the integrity of the internal market. the protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications introduced by the regulation serve to designate products appropriately in order to preserve their unique or traditional character. the preservation of the quality characteristics of union agricultural products is important in that it concerns the product group that builds the competitive advantage of union agriculture in the world and meets the demand for high-quality food. every effort should therefore be made to ensure that regional products (such as the categories of mountain and island products listed in the regulation) are properly registered, labelled and protected against unfair competition, and that they are marketed in such a way as to build the reputation of european food in the world and to contribute to the maintenance of employment in sectors producing food by traditional methods.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, that europe needs growth and growth requires investment, which in turn cannot occur without funding, is not a surprising statement. unfortunately, we face this challenge of growth and investment at a time when europe’s small and medium-sized enterprises are suffering from a funding deficit and when lending conditions have seriously deteriorated as a result of the crisis. but the challenge is all the more demanding because europe’s smes need to invest in knowledge-based undertakings, innovation and new sources of growth that can create sustainable jobs and upgrade the competitiveness of the european economy. here the solution is a major push towards developing venture capital. this is a front on which europe is seriously lagging behind the us. venture capital is crucial for young enterprises, particularly in the early years of their development when, despite innovative plans and strong growth potential, they struggle to find the necessary funding. moreover, venture initiatives can also provide companies with valuable expertise and knowledge, business contacts and strategic advice. the regulation we are debating today aims to address europe’s growth funding deficit through an eu-wide venture capital passport. this regulation can provide a much-needed boost to kick-start some of the main drivers of growth. it is vital, therefore, to get the venture capital legislation working as soon as possible. i recommend that the house supports the compromise reached with the danish presidency and that negotiations continue towards a successful first reading.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all congratulations to our negotiating team and its leader, mr häfner, for reaching an important agreement. this is never easy, especially when two institutions are involved and one of them is being granted new powers, and all the more so in a field as sensitive as that of classified information. in this case our negotiators succeeded in bringing about a really mature agreement, which provides us with sensible agreements for getting access to classified information held by the council. what may seem to many a technical matter is, in fact, another step towards the practical realisation of the long-standing demand for more democratic scrutiny of what the union does. this is in line with the lisbon treaty and the provisions on transparency which for many years have been the priority of this house in the various treaty changes. because parliament takes its decisions responsibly, we need the fullest picture possible, and this agreement provides us with a tool for obtaining it. as mr häfner has said, it is a part of a larger process of fighting for the prerogatives of this house, be it with regard to committees of inquiry or access to information in the field which has just been negotiated or, for example, in the field of common foreign and security policy, an area that still lies ahead of us. our negotiating team has done a very good job; the legal framework and the principles are there. now it is imperative that parliament too does its job and puts in place a system so that the agreement can be implemented and exploited in practice as soon as possible. we should also not lose sight of the fact that the agreement still leaves some room for interpretation. i can only hope that, on the part of the council, the good spirit in which it was conceived will continue throughout the process of its implementation. we all know that sincere cooperation between the institutions is enshrined in the treaties, but it is good to see it employed in practice, especially as there is still another missing piece of the puzzle of a more comprehensive democratic oversight of the union: access to classified information on common foreign and security policy, which i have mentioned, has yet to be addressed. basically there is one message here: thanks to this interinstitutional agreement, we can carry out our duties in this house much better, in a more informed and effective way, and we can hold the council to account in a transparent manner: and that has been parliament’s priority in consecutive treaty changes.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? a large number of works held in european archives or libraries cannot be made available because it is not possible to identify the authorship of these works or to reach the rights holders who need to give consent to their use. such frozen works often account for as much as 45% of the collections of these institutions. cultural heritage should be a public service, not a prison of copyright. the case involves all publications: books, newspapers, photographs, radio and television recordings. as someone who has worked for years in the cultural world, i was keen to tackle this problem at the legislative level across the union and to bring forgotten works back into the public domain by digitising them. i am pleased that the legal affairs committee accepted my report on the accessibility of orphan works in march this year. the project provides that works after a so-called due diligence that shows that the author or the rights holder cannot be identified can be given the status of orphan, which means that they can be made available to the public as part of non-commercial activities, i.e. without a profit motive, and also be preserved and restored through digitisation. in addition, a work considered orphan in one country will be automatically considered as such in other countries. if the author or the rights holder is found, he or she can claim adequate compensation if he or she can prove that he or she has suffered real losses as a result of such disclosure. i think this is a great example of how mitigating copyright, not tightening it, can be beneficial for all parties. i negotiated this issue on behalf of the legal affairs committee with the council, first under the polish presidency, then under the danish presidency, and today my report will be put to the vote in plenary, which will mean that one of the priorities of the cypriot presidency has been achieved. the creation of an exception to intellectual property law for the sharing of cultural heritage by public institutions for purposes of education and cultural promotion will open a new chapter in intellectual property law. this is a very important directive because it is the first to establish a legislative basis in a new area of law that has not been regulated so far. it gives beneficiaries who have so far avoided digitization for fear of potentially being sued for millions of dollars if the author is found, a breath of relief. the compensation in the form of a settlement provides legal certainty in this respect. works with multiple owners, so-called 'semi-orphans', will also be able to be digitised and made available to a wide range of audiences. libraries, archives and museums have long been waiting for clear rules that would allow them to share treasures that have been hidden for years and prevent them from being forgotten or destroyed. digitisation, which will finally be fully possible thanks to this directive, solves these problems. most importantly, however, and i consider this the most successful part of our negotiations, the new article 6 (2) will give public authorities a real chance to generate revenue from the use of orphan works, which will support the modest budgets allocated to digitisation processes. commercial use of the work is strictly defined in the text and is linked to the issue of possible compensation for the author, if any. i believe that we have also struck a balanced compromise here between copyright protection and the possibility of exclusive use of orphan works. moreover, we included in the review clause a provision for the commission to examine the effects of the directive one year after its entry into force and to make any necessary changes or improvements, or to introduce a wider range of beneficiaries, including, for example, private institutions. the negotiations were difficult, we did not always agree on all issues, but i am pleased with the final compromise solutions and i am convinced that this directive will be a useful and effective tool for making hidden culture available to a wide audience. i would like to thank all the co-rapporteurs, as well as the commission and the council, for the fruitful negotiations.
madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and my colleagues on the legal affairs committee on the great determination and great negotiating skills that have been required in the work on this directive. the directive, like all other projects on the protection of intellectual property rights, has generated a lot of excitement and a lot of controversy. regulating access to works, the real cultural treasures that now line the shelves of libraries and many archives, may seem like a small step, but it is certainly a step in the right direction. in the current atmosphere of general confusion about the very definition of intellectual property and the rights that this definition gives, in the atmosphere of a discussion of little substance fuelled by various parties interested in defending the freedom of access to almost everything that someone else has created or invented, especially if such sharing is to take place in the internet sphere, i see the report by mrs geringer as a light in the tunnel. a light that gives hope for a more substantive and properly argued discussion on the protection of creative thought in the european union. the work on this dossier has shown that it is possible to bring together views that at first seemed very far apart. it is enough, or perhaps it should be said, that we have a dialogue based on rational arguments that take into account the positions of both creators and users. i therefore hope that future ip projects will be conducted in the spirit of substantive discussion, and not used for populist behaviour and political games of various kinds.
i would like to congratulate my colleague from the region, mrs lydia geringer de oedenberg, on her excellent work and the compromise she has reached. i think today we can send two very serious, very significant signals to our citizens. first, there is a huge opportunity to accelerate the digitisation of cultural works in europe, those hundreds of thousands of works that today are stored in the archives of museums and libraries and cannot - because of legal conflicts and legal problems - be made available to the wider public. and today, young people, especially young people, are mobile, and the issue of finding cultural works is absolutely relevant and accessible only and exclusively through the internet. second, actually, with the legal norms that we're regulating today, there will be an opportunity for all public institutions, libraries, educational institutions, to give these works the ability to be published. i believe that all the measures that have been taken here, including the mutual recognition of works, can be a good step towards making cultural heritage very widely accessible in the european union. congratulations to all those who worked on this directive.
madam chair, i apologize for the delay caused by the extension of the previous meeting. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur's colleagues for their work on the amendments and on the text as a whole. i hope that it will succeed in filling the legal gap that we are currently in and allow for a wide access to so-called orphan works. this is particularly important in the context of protests by knowledge-dissemination organisations. they have long reported problems with the use of such materials, for example in audiovisual processes. the directive and the proposed amendments make this possibility more flexible, especially in the context of non-profit activities, but these provisions seem to be poorly adapted to the needs of the market. as many as 69% of those surveyed on one side were in favour of the possibility of using orphan works in for-profit activities. it is therefore worth considering the possibility of further amendments to the directive to open the way to the commercial exploitation of orphan works. this would be a strong impetus towards their wider publicity, and such a change would also increase the number of potential beneficiaries. the amendments themselves safeguard the interests of potential heirs to the works, but on the other hand they impose legal conditions on the institutions wishing to use the works which are difficult to fulfil. in the long run, this may extend the distance that books, photographs and paintings travel before they reach the general public.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, before you proceed to the vote, let me underline once again the importance of this directive. the text is a major step in our mutual objective to create a digital single market. it will define the right rules for the promotion of knowledge and culture across our borders for the benefit of all european citizens. the european parliament has played a constructive role in ensuring a successful conclusion to our negotiations over the past year.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i thank you all for a fruitful debate and i thank all the members for the great work we have done together over the last year and a half. i am glad that soon many of the hidden gems of our culture and heritage will be brought to light and made available to the general public, and i also think that this is a first, perhaps small, but important step towards the future of full harmonisation of copyright across the european union. i would like to thank the danish presidency for the very fruitful cooperation, and i would like to thank in particular ambassador jonas bering liisberg. i also thank commissioner barnier very much for the many fruitful meetings and discussions, and commissioner neelie kroes, who, i must say, was a good omen for this project. i would like to thank in particular my colleagues on the committee on legal affairs, the colleagues of mrs angelice niebler, who was the co-rapporteur, and of mariella gallo, who was very involved in the work, and i also thank mrs alexandra thein, who is here with us today, and christian engström for their support, although we differed on some points, but it was a very important discussion. i thank the secretariat of the legal affairs committee and all the assistants who have worked with us. i am surprised at the position of the gue, which throughout the negotiations has supported our work and expressed support or has not participated in the negotiations. so i'm surprised at your last-minute position that you want to abstain. i encourage you to support a good first step towards harmonising the very part of copyright law that concerns orphan works. thank you very much and i encourage you to vote yes.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? my position on the negotiations was with your representatives in the legal group, the legal affairs committee. your members in the legal affairs group have supported my initiative, i understand with the support of your colleagues in the culture committee. so it's an intra-group problem, if you're in the negotiations, as far as the legal affairs committee is concerned, you're in favor of the proposal, then i understand that the whole group is in favor, and if not, then you have a problem within your group. however, i ask you to support this initiative because your position is completely incomprehensible at this moment.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the report by mr karim on the evaluation of the state of the law in the european union this year is very specific, because it is produced in the european parliament every year. every year we try to show where we still have a lot to do, and i hope that the guidance that comes from the european parliament is taken into account by the parliament itself and by the other legislators, the european commission and the council. however, this year's debate is special in that we are talking about a time of economic crisis, but also a crisis of faith in the possibility and the usefulness of the development of the european institutions and their effectiveness. our task is to restore the effectiveness of the european union and to rebuild trust in european law, which is reflected in national legislation. this is the key element of cooperation with our national partners, with national parliaments, with regional parliaments. the importance of this is shown by the use, for the first time, of the yellow card procedure vis-à-vis the european commission in respect of the monti ii regulation, and by the european parliament's 'quick and efficient' behaviour which led to the commission's withdrawal from this regulation. another key issue today is the need to further reduce the administrative burdens and barriers that make small and medium-sized enterprises - the driving force of the european economy - expect us to legislate better so that they can operate well, freely and wisely, creating new jobs that will be the most important element in the fight against the crisis. so i thank my colleague karim and the other colleagues for this year's report and i hope that its conclusions will be implemented quickly.
mr. chairman, please! if you ask the average citizen of any eu country what eu law means to them, one of the most common answers is probably 'too complicated or too bureaucratic'. it is true that many european union legal acts are written in difficult-to-understand specialist language, which makes it difficult to better understand the meaning of the decisions taken. of course, this is partly justified by the subject matter of the act or by other factors that influence the final shape of the document. nevertheless, the report we are debating today is an important step towards bringing the european union closer to ordinary citizens. we need clear, simple and understandable legislation for all and a reduction in the regulatory burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. we must draw the attention of the european commission and the council to the fact that the proliferation of legal acts written in inaccessible and specialist language will not help to increase the popularity of the european union among its citizens. finally, the law enacted by the community institutions should be based on facts, verified and tested as often as possible for effectiveness and usefulness, because in the end it is created for the citizens and that is what it should serve.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his contribution to the democratic control of the legislative process in the european union. it is not without reason that there is often talk of a growing deficit in this area. under the existing treaties, both the european parliament and national parliaments play an important role in the decision-making process. however, as mr karim's report shows, these prerogatives are not always reflected in practice. the rapporteur's conclusions show that the european commission does not always apply the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality adequately, for example through, as the national parliaments point out, the absence or insufficient justification of the subsidiarity principle in its initiatives. the involvement of our national parliaments in the process of scrutiny of legislative proposals in the light of these two principles should therefore be welcomed. furthermore, as stated in the forewords, i would like to stress the urgent need for better scrutiny, including by our house, of delegated and implementing acts, where important issues often escape democratic scrutiny.
mr. chairman, please! the commission states that it is not aware of most of the member states' energy agreements. this means that it has no ability to react to extremely unfavourable contracts for supplies from outside the union, which directly reduce the energy security of the country concerned. the increased powers and the associated involvement of the commission in the process of negotiating and evaluating the legal aspects of intergovernmental agreements are undoubtedly justified. i believe that these measures will lead to a rational pricing policy and will help to reduce the colossal disparities that exist, for example, in the agreements between individual countries and the russian gas powerhouse. energy agreements with third countries also affect the functioning of the internal energy market. the development of the transmission infrastructure requires a high level of investment. in the context of these conditions, the necessary expertise and assistance of the commission should be put to good use, and the sharing of information on concluded agreements and negotiations is a key means to this end.
mr. chairman, please! virtually every region of the european union has developed its own traditional agricultural production methods, which has an impact on the diversity of agricultural production throughout the community. the region's own food products are often of great value. farmers and consumers alike should be aware of their quality, which also affects the presence and recognition of products on european and world markets. quality control systems, supplemented by distinctive markings, contribute to this. the resolution calls for the introduction of a european standardisation body to ensure that the quality of products is not compromised. the transparency and ease of use of these mechanisms will make them less burdensome for producers. i hope that more and more excellent polish food products will be protected. i also agree with the rapporteur that the quality assurance system should also cover unprocessed products. this would allow producers of apples from mazovia, for example, to apply for guarantees.
mr. chairman, please! the resolution on syria is simply our moral duty. while it does not change the situation directly, it draws the attention of the entire civilized world to what is happening in syria, to the fate of thousands of refugees and the scale of human suffering caused by the deaths of those killed and those at the center of the conflict. at the same time, the use of military force against civilians is reprehensible. the exodus of refugees. the lack of agreement in the un security council, especially between china and russia, also makes this a politically difficult situation to resolve. so we also call on these countries to join the international response that is adequate to fundamentally change the situation in syria. there is another issue that we rarely talk about, namely the risks of large chemical weapons stockpiles, which have been raised by agencies around the world that study the situation. if the weapons were left unprotected, it could be a huge humanitarian disaster in the region.
in recent years, we have become increasingly aware of abuses in the russian justice system. this is evidenced, for example, by the large number of cases brought before the european court of human rights. the cases of political interference by the judiciary, which should be completely independent, are particularly significant, and i would point out that the russian constitution guarantees the full rights and freedoms of its citizens. the commission has also been actively involved in the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). it is concerned about the legal restrictions on freedom of expression and association and the use of severe penalties for breach of these restrictions. russia, as a member of the council of europe, is obliged to respect civil liberties. in supporting the resolution, i call on the authorities in moscow to restore the rule of law, to end political persecution and to lift restrictions on public rights. i call for an end to discrimination against ngos and for them to be given the right conditions to operate. i also condemn all acts of repression against civil society and the democratic opposition.
mr. chairman, please! russia is too important a country, too important a partner, also a political partner, in the world, but also a strategic partner with whom the european union has a privileged relationship. so if these relations are privileged, if they are placed on the level of strategic partnership, then we too have the right to expect our partner - and there are relevant provisions - to apply principles that are acceptable in a democratic world in matters of human rights, including the judiciary. at the same time, we were dealing with the new issue of russia's accession to the world trade organisation, which also entails some kind of commitment. of course, each country has the right to build its justice system on the basis of acceptable standards, but it cannot be that political pressures, as in the case of magnitsky or other cases, such as the aforementioned platon lebiedyev, or the earlier estemirova, politkovskaya case, overshadow all this. we therefore call on russia, as a great country with great potential, to adopt standards that are acceptable in democratic societies.
president barroso's speech yesterday, and our work on the draft resolution, are a confirmation of the plans for a banking union. in fact, the eurozone crisis is accelerating this process. at the same time, the presentation of the project and the legal basis which has been invoked indicate that it is addressed only and exclusively to euro area members. all the member states of the european union should have the right, if they want, of course, to join this banking union. after all, for example, banks in hungary are 90% external capital, poland about 70% is external capital, including from banks in the member states of the european union. at the same time, the proposal of close cooperation for non-euro area countries is a second category of membership in the banking union with obligations, but no possibility of influencing these decisions, and with serious consequences for the country and its savings, deposits, the guarantee of these deposits, and possibly rescue funds. this is a straightforward path to the two-speed union and we would not want to accept that.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i support parliament’s consent to conclude the renewal of the eu’s cooperation agreement with brazil in the field of science and technology. this proposed decision grants the renewal for an additional period of five years of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and brazil. it is worth mentioning that in 2005 the eu put in place specific visa measures to facilitate the entry and long-term stay of non-eu researchers, as well as their short-term movements between eu member states. the eu and brazil hold a regular s&t dialogue at bilateral but also at sub-regional and regional levels through mercosul and alcue, in accordance with the guadalajara declaration on science and technology. we should continue our tradition of cooperation in the field of scientific research.
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation has facilitated cooperation between the european union and the united states. its extension is in the interest of the european union. the parties shall benefit from joint action in priority areas of science and technology. that's why i voted to extend this deal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i support parliament’s consent to conclude the eu’s cooperation agreement with algeria in the field of science and technology. the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states and algeria identifies cooperation in scientific and technological research as an area of particular interest and potential and provides for the establishment of permanent links between our scientific communities. this is an endeavour worth supporting and i hope that parliament will closely monitor its benefits.
in writing. − research is one of the essential elements for the development of a knowledge society and the reduction of unemployment. the conclusion of the agreement in the field of science and technology is therefore in the interest of both the european union and algeria as an element enabling joint research and enhanced cooperation in this field. this will allow for closer cooperation between the parties and the establishment of permanent links between the scientific communities of both parties. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. this agreement has been the subject of extensive negotiations with the council and was approved by the conference of presidents in march 2012. the agreement follows a similar structure to the agreement found between the parliament and commission concerning the release of confidential documents received by the commission, though additional safeguards have been introduced to protect member state interests where necessary. i support this solution.
in writing. − the european parliament needs access to all documents and information in order to be able to carry out its work in accordance with the principles of democracy. the lisbon treaty has clearly extended parliament's powers in the area of processing and access to information held by the council. in order to make effective use of these new powers, it is necessary to lay down the rules for cooperation between parliament and the council. that's why i voted to accept the agreement.
in writing. − i consider it appropriate to conclude an agreement between the european parliament and the council on the transmission and processing by the parliament of classified information held by the council on matters other than those of common foreign and security policy. this agreement is a necessary instrument for enabling parliament to exercise its powers and functions fully, particularly in the context of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, which has increased parliament's powers in the field of international agreements. the agreement sets out in detail the definitions and classification levels of classified information exchanged between the council and parliament, the security measures for individuals and the procedure for accessing and protecting classified information. it is also worth noting that the agreement also lays down the specific conditions for the transmission of classified information to parliament by the commission.
in writing. − the creation of simple, understandable and transparent law is a major need in the european union. it is essential that the european institutions respect, above all, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in its creation. it is of the utmost importance that all deficiencies in this area are corrected. best practices should be maintained and the remaining ones improved through a smart regulation programme. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. - a strategy for the atlantic region is essential. as a result of the recent european crisis, a large part of its territory has been left behind. however, i abstained on this matter because of certain shortcomings in the proposed strategy. first, the proposed core trans-european transport network does not propose the creation of a corridor covering the entire atlantic region. secondly, too few atlantic ports, including the hub ports, are included in the network.
in writing. - failure to comply with the provisions of international agreements requires that the party who breaches the provisions be condemned and punished. this has led to a strong position of the union, characterised by the deletion from the list of beneficiary countries of those that have not taken the necessary steps to ratify the epas. my abstention stems from the question i have been asked whether the time given to the parties to sign or ratify the agreements (2014 is too short). in short, i condemn the actions of the countries that have been singled out, but i would like to give them one last chance to correct their mistakes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the eu imports over 60% of its gas and over 80% of its oil. this import tendency is increasing and makes us very vulnerable. energy supply contracts are usually concluded between commercial entities, but there are some situations when intergovernmental agreements (iga) are requested of an eu member state. sometimes, however, the aim of the third country is to bind an eu member state to assure the commercial contract or to secure a monopolistic position in energy supplies via particular infrastructure. i believe that in order to avoid a breach of internal market rules in the field of energy, we must enhance our internal eu cooperation regarding igas. we know that gasprom does not always play by the rules and the russian federation uses political pressure to try to get what it wants. this has recently taken place in bulgaria. for this reason, member states need all the help they can get and i believe that the commission’s involvement in negotiations with third parties has had positive effects in the past.
in writing. - the agreement i voted for is designed to eliminate incompatibilities between eu law and intergovernmental agreements concluded between member states and third countries. it will significantly improve the functioning of the internal energy market. it is also important that it contains clauses requiring member states to exchange full information on intergovernmental agreements that affect the volume of energy imports into the union. the adoption of this agreement will ensure a high degree of transparency of agreements concluded between member states and third countries.
in writing. - the european union has been struggling with energy security for years. this is particularly true in the countries of central and eastern europe, which are often dependent on a single supplier. slovakia gets 100% of its gas from russia, as does hungary, poland and lithuania. of course, this allows the supplier to unilaterally set prices. it is important that the european commission has information on the price member states pay for gas and oil. it is important that the eu should seek to help others to establish better gas contract terms, by drawing on the experience of some countries. there are many positive examples of this, such as the negotiations of the polish gas agreement with gazprom. however, we should not forget that the only solution to reducing hydrocarbon prices is to develop alternative connections between suppliers from different regions of the world.
in writing. − improving food certification and labelling should bring many benefits to regions with a particularly high number of local and distinctive products. the establishment of clear definitions can help to better understand the whole production process, which seems to be particularly important for producers. given the purely economic dimension of this decision, simplifying the functioning of the quality assurance systems for agricultural products and thus reducing the time taken to certify regional and organic food can bring many benefits to regions with a high concentration of these products, not to mention providing them with greater recognition and maintaining their high quality. i believe that the direction of these actions is the right one for the whole of europe.
in writing. − consumers all over the world are aware of the high quality of food from europe. long-standing traditions, proven recipes, product variety and high standards give unique results. this is also possible through a number of certification and quality control systems. the key for manufacturers is that the recommendations and requirements are transparent and easy to implement. i am therefore pleased that we are moving towards the unification of these procedures. this will allow the competitiveness of european producers to be enhanced. i support the proposal for regulatory changes to improve the eu legislation on quality of service and the functioning of national and private certification schemes, so that they are more understandable and transparent. it is also important to pay attention to the importance of regional designations protected geographical indications and protected designations of origin. the promotion of healthy lifestyles is resulting in increased consumer demand for traditional and organic food, so the special labels will make it easier for consumers to choose and for producers to make sure too.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? today, the european market is not only evaluating products by price, but increasingly by quality. the european union must strive to boost its economy, find incentives to stimulate growth and employment, including by promoting its products on european and world markets. i personally think that we should raise the profile and reputation of our local and regional products. consumers should be made aware of the quality and variety of these products, as agriculture is now a guarantee of food security. i believe that we should use our natural resources in a way that is consistent with the dynamics of rural areas, which in turn leads to economic growth, increases the competitiveness of regions and contributes to the creation of new jobs. i voted in favour of the report by mrs iratxe garcía pérez on the quality assurance systems for agricultural products.
in writing. − the proposal concerns a regulation establishing a legal framework governing the use of the name 'european venture capital fund' by different investment funds. the aim is to create a european venture capital investment sector for smes. there is no doubt that european venture capital funds can play an important role in increasing access to finance for smes. however, there is a high risk that these funds may be used for purposes other than those for which they were intended. it is therefore necessary to ensure that any such gaps are closed. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - both of the products discussed in today's report concern a so-called sensitive product which needs to be covered by a specific legal framework. bananas, as they are known, enter the union market mainly through imports from third countries (not to mention, of course, the peripheral regions of the eu such as the canary islands, martinique and guadeloupe), and are therefore subject to the relevant tariff regimes. trade agreements with colombia, peru and central america are to be covered by appropriate safeguard clauses to counter any disruption that the introduction of bananas on the european market may cause. the european commission's suggestions, however, do not address the issue of close monitoring of trade or the protection of european producers who may suffer as a result of excessive trade liberalisation. as a member of the parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development, i am in favour of allowing the european globalisation adjustment fund to be used in this case. we must also not forget the respect of environmental standards in the production process, and - and this is particularly important - the enforcement of human rights, which are often violated in the countries with which we have agreements.
in writing. − i abstained because, while fully recognising the need for a bilateral safeguard clause to safely implement on the eu side the free trade agreement concluded between the eu, colombia and peru, i consider that some of the amendments adopted in the international trade committee require further redrafting for the sake of clarity and feasibility. for example: definition of ‘threat of serious deterioration’ for the activation of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas; extent of the commission’s monitoring and especially the inclusion of additional socioeconomic indicators on top of colombian and peruvian export and import statistics, to assess the impact of the fta on the banana production in the eu; involvement of the european parliament in initiating an investigation in the framework of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas; the commission’s room for manoeuvre with respect to the activation of the stabilisation mechanism for bananas. these issues need to be clarified.
in writing. −the legislative initiative to allow the use of orphan works is right and good. such works account for as much as 45% of all works in the collections of various institutions and archives. the impossibility of identifying the copyright owner should not be an obstacle to the general use of such a work. orphaned works are often the foundation of our culture. their use in non-profit activities is necessary, especially when it comes to knowledge dissemination processes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the directive which will allow those works which fall into the ‘orphan works’ category to be used by libraries and other public institutions within the member states for broadly non-commercial purposes such as digitisation and preservation. this will help facilitate access so that these cultural works can remain available for future generations. i support the safeguards that were introduced to protect those rights holders whose works are accidentally designated as ‘orphans.’ it is also important to carry out a diligent search for each individual work to appropriately respect the intellectual property rights of its authors and creators.
in writing. - in the era of global digitalisation, we must take special care of all copyright, preventing its illegal use, but we must also take care of works whose author is unknown. the creation of digital possibilities for cultural heritage is a duty and must be supported at european level. the many amendments that have been made during the work demonstrate the degree of difficulty in achieving a uniform text of the directive without prejudice to the arrangements in the member states for the mass digitisation of works. with all due respect to the members of parliament working on this issue, i voted to accept the motion.
in writing. - the text we voted on today contains important and long-awaited solutions. so i hope that it will succeed in filling the legal gap that we are currently in and allowing wide access to so-called orphan works. the report by ms geringer de oedenberg offers a great opportunity to accelerate the digitisation of cultural works in europe, which will of course lead to a wider public reception. i hope that this will be a strong impetus for the cultural development and wider dissemination of works by, for example, julius korczak and other artists killed during the second world war. the new regulations also allow us to regulate the use of works by galleries, museums and public libraries. in doing so, they shall ensure adequate protection for any heirs of the authors. this is a big step forward.
in writing. − i have decided to abstain on this issue because i am not convinced that the adoption of autonomous trade preferences without human rights conditions will weaken the current eu preference system, which is based on respect for certain rights and values. i also have no confidence in the civil service in pakistan overseeing the eu aid process. at the same time, i express my sorrow for the magnitude of the tragedy that has struck this country.
in writing. - the situation in syria is still very complex and ambiguous. a large number of syrians, even about 70%, still support president assad. moreover, he can count on the total loyalty of the alawites and the christians and druze who live in the area and make up about 34 percent of the population. therefore, there is no chance of any ceasefire at the moment, especially since the situation on the front is still favorable for the government forces. the rebels control only the northern regions of the country and are unable to take up any fighting outside of mountainous or heavily urbanized areas. for over two months, there have been no signs of any serious cases of desertion from the ruling camp. meanwhile, reports are coming in of fighting between aleppo residents and rebels. the opposition forces have no military oversight and act more as a representation of the refugee camp than as the real voice of the syrians. the conflict has been worrisome with the increasing number of rebel attacks on christians and christian places of worship. unfortunately, the resolutions put to the vote give too superficial a picture of their situation.
in writing. − the resolution on the use of the judiciary for political purposes in russia recalls the difficult internal situation of the country and the harmful human rights laws that have been passed in the state duma of the russian federation. as a co-author of the draft resolution, i consider it extremely important that it recalls specific cases of human rights violations, such as the convictions of mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev and taisa osipova, while at the same time mentioning the tragedy of sergei magnitsky. the situation of human rights defenders and activists who disagree with the current authorities is very difficult. despite some cases being reported in the media, most cases are ignored by the prosecution. it is in the european union's interest to cooperate fruitfully with neighbours whose social life is governed by the principles of democracy and the rule of law. that's still missing in russia. it is therefore the duty of members of the european parliament to constantly remind them of what needs to be improved and changed. for these reasons, i supported the resolution.
in writing. − this year, the european parliament adopted a series of resolutions on russia, most of them focusing on issues related to respect for human rights and the rule of law. sadly, instead of getting better, the situation in this country seems to be getting worse. the persecution of human rights defenders, independent journalists and ngos is intensifying. worse, special legislation is being adopted which, under the guise of fighting extremism, allows for an effective strike on civil society representatives. the european parliament rightly expresses its concern once again about the situation in russia, pointing to a long and growing series of abuses and violations of fundamental freedoms.
in writing. - we voted on a very important resolution today. russia has a long history of poor law enforcement. the judiciary, which should have remained independent, has become the perfect tool for the authorities to hammer out opposition with harsh sentences in isolated siberian detention centers or to wash away inconvenient cases by leaving them unresolved for years. examples are not to be found far away. the russian security services and prosecutors have not been able to find and prosecute the killers of anna politkovskaya and natalia estemirova. the sixth anniversary of the first one will be celebrated on october 6th. there are also very worrying signs about the russian election monitoring organization "golos". a moscow court fined her 30,000 rubles for creating a negative image of one of the parties. in addition, her colleagues have been subject to formal restrictions on movement within the russian federation, as well as detention. signs of change in the functioning of russian law are also worrying. i will just remind you that in 2011 a draft was published, which would give the constitutional court of the russian federation the right to block the execution of judgments of the european court of human rights in strasbourg. in the light of these developments, the key question is how has the european external action service responded to these unlawful and rule-of-law-destroying cases?
in writing. − the document published in june by the president of the european council is a highly desirable initiative, which represents the implementation of the european council's overriding function of defining new directions for integration and political priorities for the union. i strongly support a comprehensive strategy of building an integrated financial, budgetary and economic policy framework in parallel, while maintaining an appropriate level of democratic legitimacy. the implementation of this bold plan should be carried out by means of a community method which guarantees adequate transparency of the decision-making process and the accountability of the new institutions to the citizens. i also believe that the new integrated financial framework should cover all the member states of the union, so as not to undermine the achievements of the common financial market and at the same time to frustrate the achievements of others. in my view, it should also be borne in mind that before the ambitious vision of a banking union can be put into effect, negotiations on the remaining necessary components of an integrated financial framework, such as the deposit guarantee scheme and capital requirements, must first be concluded quickly and effectively. without these elements, it will be impossible to restore the stability of the european financial system.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the republic of south africa is a special country. on the one hand, it is the most developed country, which can have a positive impact on many neighboring countries. on the other hand, it's a unique country among developed countries. i don't think there's anywhere in the world as dangerous as south africa. for years, some citizens have been leaving the country because of the low level of security. and some of the people who were victims of apartheid are leaving. there is no doubt that the tragic events at the marikana mine should prompt the south african authorities to take decisive action. it is not just a question of a reliable explanation of the immediate causes and the perpetrators of this tragedy, although this is of course important. but in the long run, it will be more important to neutralize the structural causes of such a violent outbreak. the paradox is that - according to some experts - the gap between rich and poor has widened since the fall of apartheid. the culprits can be identified as corruption, hypocrisy, lack of proper policy. south africa is in danger of being a cure for current ills through populism and nationalism. we wish south africa would not have done that.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the rape and murder of a buddhist girl in myanmar's arakan province on may 28 sparked a wave of violence and ethnic clashes between buddhists and muslims. the nationwide fighting forced the president to declare a state of emergency on june 10. however, instead of countering the violence and providing protection to both ethnic groups, the security forces either actively participated in the ongoing fighting or remained completely passive. the fighting has killed at least 80 people, burned 5,000 homes, and displaced 90,000 people. myanmar is one of the most ethnically diverse countries in asia and its government must manage the tensions while upholding the democratic principles it has pledged to uphold. it should provide humanitarian aid to the wounded and needy, those who lack food, shelter and medical care, and end discrimination against the muslim minority by granting them full citizenship rights. as members of the international community, we stand ready to support burma's democratic transition, but also to impose sanctions if necessary.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. although the burmese government has taken a number of steps in recent years to expand civil liberties, including the release of political prisoners, it continues to engage in activities that are incompatible with respect for human rights. these include the authorities' treatment of the rohingya minority in rakhine state. the denial of the rights of this ethnic group and the treatment of its members as illegal immigrants and stateless persons translates into a clear discrimination in burmese society, which has led to recent massacres. these events have also created a humanitarian crisis throughout the region. in addition to bringing the situation under control, it is necessary to carry out a credible investigation into the violence, to take steps towards national reconciliation, and to continue to work towards restoring full stability and democracy in the country. first of all, the arbitrary arrests of rohingya must stop. i hope that the burmese authorities will decide to cooperate fully with the agendas of the united nations. the european union's diplomatic assistance also seems necessary. the revision of citizenship rights and inclusion of the muslim minority is a major political action that the burmese government is currently obliged to take. the freedom of public information is a separate issue. journalists in burma remain under the control of the government agency, and only 1% of the population has access to the internet. this situation must change as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! the human rights situation in burma is back in the public eye. the eyes of various international organizations are focused on the religious conflict between muslims and buddhists in burma. the voices of the country's rulers are trying to divert attention from the situation by assuring that the problem is an internal matter of the country and should not be raised on the international stage. the rohingya are a muslim ethnic minority in the northern part of the burmese state of rakhine. although the group numbers 800,000, the authorities do not recognize them as an ethnic minority, and many burmese see them as illegal immigrants from bangladesh. so the rohingya muslims are left in no man's land because bangladesh does not want to take them back to their country. they are subjected to various forms of blackmail, land confiscation, forced displacement, forced road work and military camps, according to amnesty international. such practices, apart from violating other fundamental human rights in relation to them, are discriminatory against these people. the european union should assist burma by actively cooperating in the necessary economic, political and social reforms.
mr. chairman, please! in 2004, during an international training exercise organized by nato in hungary, an azerbaijani soldier ramil safarow killed an armenian officer with an axe, alleging that he had insulted him and the azerbaijani flag. in accordance with the provisions of the 1983 strasbourg convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, signed by both budapest and baku, hungary agreed to transfer the prisoner to azerbaijan. safarow was greeted, as everyone here said, as a hero, freeing him from a life sentence imposed by hungary, but also promoted for his heroic act to the rank of major. this incident has caused great concern. first, according to the provisions of the convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, azerbaijan was obliged to ensure the full execution of the sentence imposed by hungary, which it did not do. second, president aliyev has set a very bad example for the world by glorifying the act of a brutal crime and making a murderer into a national hero. i therefore call on the azerbaijani authorities to act in accordance with international standards in the area of justice.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i welcome your initiative to raise the issue of mr safarov’s extradition and pardoning. i am fully aware of the very strong reactions prompted by this development, not only in armenia but also far beyond. ramil safarov was sentenced in hungary to life imprisonment for the brutal murder of gurgen margaryan, an armenian officer and fellow nato course participant. from our contacts with the hungarian authorities, i understand that the decision to extradite mr safarov was based upon written assurances received from the azerbaijani government that mr safarov would serve the remaining part of his life sentence there. the subsequent azerbaijani decisions, including the pardoning of mr safarov and steps which have widely been seen as rewarding his crime, are deeply regrettable. the handling of this case has the potential to further complicate the peaceful settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict, as well as – potentially – the eastern partnership agenda. despite this setback – and i think we cannot pretend that it is otherwise – the eu remains committed to, and persistent in, its support to the nagorno-karabakh conflict settlement process in the framework of the minsk group. the eu does not see – and would absolutely reject – any alternative to peaceful conflict settlement. the safarov case should not be used by anyone to deviate from this. intense contacts with all actors to establish the situation have been deployed by the eu, and there was a good discussion on this at the informal foreign ministers’ meeting last weekend in cyprus. moreover, baroness ashton has instructed the eu special representative for the south caucasus and the crisis in georgia to visit yerevan and baku and convey our messages, which he is doing as we speak. last but not least, there is also a lesson for the eastern partnership, in which both armenia and azerbaijan participate. without a community of values, without the rule of law and respect for human rights and commitments taken, there can be no reconciliation or peace. in this respect, the implementation of the eastern partnership roadmap becomes a key element for regional stability. more than ever, our efforts in support of peace in the region are needed. the commission welcomes president schulz’s statement and the european parliament’s commitment in focusing the attention of partners on this objective.
in writing. the case of ramil safaroff should be seen in the broader context of the escalating conflict between armenia and azerbaijan. the situation is getting more complicated every day. each side is sharpening its aggressive rhetoric, making no secret of its desire for armed conflict. suffice it to mention today's statement by the azerbaijani authorities, who said that the visit of the president of armenia to the occupied territories of nagorno-karabakh will be interpreted as a hostile act against baku. similar rhetoric is being used by yerevan, which a few months ago declared that in the next conflict with azerbaijan, armenian troops should establish a new border with russia. the situation is tense for the main allies of the two sides - russia and turkey, which have been building up their forces on the border with the south caucasus for some time. the only remaining debate today is the eu's diplomatic blunder of strengthening its foreign policy in the face of the arab spring at the expense of the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy. the union has no significant role to play in this region, which is vital to our energy security. we have given the field to moscow and ankara, who do not want peace, but to strengthen their territory of influence. what is worse, there is no sign of any change in brussels' policy today.
in writing. in today's resolution, we are once again forced to criticise the actions of the azerbaijani government. it should be noted that the country is in the process of negotiating an association agreement with the eu, is actively involved in the eastern partnership and the euronest initiative. it can therefore be concluded that it aspires to align its legal order with that on which the united europe is built. the foundation of european integration is respect for democracy and the rule of law. the case of ramil safarow is a flagrant violation not only of the agreement but also of the generally accepted standards of international law. it is inconceivable that a man who has been sentenced to life imprisonment, immediately after being transferred in accordance with the european convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, should be pardoned, elevated to the rank of hero and rewarded. in making efforts to engage in diplomatic efforts to try to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in the nagorno-karabakh region, i believe that the european parliament cannot ignore the way in which azerbaijan has behaved, not only publicly glorifying the crime but also knowingly risking escalation of the conflict.
i wanted to ask the chairman why he didn't let me speak in the "catch the eye" procedure. i have properly reported to the president and neither did he say he was suspending the debate nor did he allow any further votes. i think some kind of democratic culture should be in place. i reported to your assistant and reported to the "catch the eye" procedure, and the chairman ignored it without any comment. please, make it right.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i'm not going to let you down. the last few years have clearly shown that we too must face the crisis. the coming year will be the last year of the current multiannual financial framework, which means that it is of great importance from the point of view of balancing, of striking a balance between the commitments undertaken and the need to implement them. this is a question of the credibility of the european union. i firmly believe that maintaining the current planned budget is in the interest not only of the beneficiaries but of all countries, and will have a huge impact on the future of our continent. the current crisis, which has limited the real potential for budget growth, cannot, however, be a convenient pretext for cutting it. with this in mind, we will wait for the end result of the work and we believe that the planned volumes will be achieved.
the european union must have the financial means to meet its commitments already made in the past. liabilities to local governments, to entrepreneurs or to erasmus students. the budget of the european union is not only for the member states, the budget of the european union is primarily for the citizens. we therefore call for more funding for measures to stimulate growth and competitiveness and for measures to create jobs (in particular promoting youth employment). we therefore want to see more money for programmes such as the lifelong learning programme, which funds, amongst others, erasmus. we therefore want to reject all the cuts proposed by the council in cohesion policy. the structural funds are a tool that primarily stimulates growth and competitiveness. the structural funds are the main pillar of european solidarity, a pillar that is often forgotten in this context. i would also like to point out that 2013 is already the last year of the multiannual financial perspective, a year in which the implementation and execution of eu projects will be accelerated, which means a significant increase in applications for reimbursement of money already committed by beneficiaries. the member states should therefore follow the meps and agree to an increase in cohesion policy payments, such as the one proposed by the european commission. in the end, it is not the member states that lose out on the persistence of the member states, but their citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for their work in preparing this report. the budget of the european union is a specific budget, which focuses largely on initiatives and investments in areas of strategic importance for growth and employment. it should therefore be borne in mind that this budget cannot be subject to the same savings as national budgets. the creation of new jobs, so necessary in the current economic situation, is only possible if adequate funding is guaranteed. i am pleased that the council maintained its position on supporting jobs and growth in june, and i hope that this will also be reflected in the 2013 budget. i believe that an increase in the level of payments to 6.8% compared with the previous year is necessary, in particular so as not to jeopardise the effective support of cohesion policy.
in writing. – the current economic reality requires us to demonstrate financial self-restraint and budgetary responsibility to our citizens. simultaneously, 25 million unemployed people in europe keep reminding us of the importance of restarting investment, boosting job creation and rebuilding confidence in our economy. in this respect the eu’s budget should be seen as an investment tool to support recovery and long-term development. the 2013 budget strikes a balance between austerity and growth by maintaining support to investments in programmes and initiatives for competitiveness and employment, while keeping the levels of increase for the institutions’ budgets below the forecast inflation rate of 1.9 %. in the light of this, i deplore the council’s approach, which seeks to make horizontal cuts in payments, especially under headings 1a and 1b, where most of the programmes and initiatives responsible for the europe 2020 strategy are concentrated. such an approach puts at risk the fulfilment of commitments previously undertaken, as well as the delivery of jointly-decided eu priorities. instead i wish to remind the council that real savings can be made elsewhere, for example by reducing the working places of the parliament to one. our budget must represent and address the need of our citizens to overcome the current crisis and restore growth.
mr. chairman, please! in times of crisis, it is particularly important to talk about european identity, about building it. because we are talking about banking union, we are talking about monetary union, we are talking about political union, but none of this will be achieved in a lasting way unless we strengthen this identity. and i think that's part of what this year is doing, which we've been talking about all along. but we talk about rights all the time. i think it's time we started talking about civic duty, too. because it's not just the right to move around. every citizenship comes with responsibilities. one of those duties is but also one of the privileges the duty to vote. in some countries, 20 to 25 percent of the population usually vote in parliamentary elections. and i think we have to put a lot of pressure on that, because there are people - i've met them myself - who don't know that they can even vote in the european parliament elections. of course, we have a small budget for this year, but i think that we as meps must start thinking about how to communicate and what to communicate. we need to start sharing best practices. we must build this european identity here, which we will spread. because this is not a matter that the institution or the programs can handle for us. it's us, when we talk to people, we have to communicate that. i therefore call on members to share good practice here.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! i am very pleased that 2013 will be the european year of citizens. i'm a member of a political party founded by citizens who are aware of their rights and goals. we felt that citizenship was so important to us that we called our group the citizens' platform. i am convinced that the achievements of the po politicians are seen and appreciated by the citizens. it is worth constantly reminding ourselves that good politics must be born of a reasonable concern for the common good. that's what we started the platform with, and that's what we're still doing. in addition to being polish citizens, we also feel and are europeans. as europeans, we should also be aware and involved. i hope that the european year of citizens will raise awareness of the rights associated with the european dimension of citizenship. actions will be organised to explain the rights of citizens who study, work, set up a business or retire in another member state. in 2013, it will be 20 years since eu citizenship was established. every eu citizen has rights guaranteed by the european treaties, including the right to move and reside freely within the eu, the right to vote and stand as a candidate in european and local elections, and the right to petition the european parliament. it's worth knowing and using these rights.
in writing. – one of the crucial aims of the european year of citizens is to make eu citizens aware of their rights. as direct representatives of our citizens we have an obligation to inform them to the best of our abilities of the work and legislation that is handled by us. i feel strongly that the dedicated year of 2013 should only be used as a springboard for our future efforts to incorporate the citizens of this union. i consider this undertaking to be crucial in educating society and bring it together to learn more about eu integration, values and policies, about the impact that eu legislation has on their lives and to help make them a part of this legislation by taking greater roles in the development of the eu. the eu uses the year of 2013 as an opportunity to involve citizens in constructing and developing the programme. it will use all possible information and dissemination tools to raise awareness of the eu and attract public and media attention all across europe. these occasions will develop a greater sense of belonging to a european community among eu citizens. only with great communication between the eu and ordinary citizens can we contribute to europe´s success and its standing in the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. the development committee decided to prepare a report on the agenda for change communication, as the european commission's intentions described in this document cover key issues of european development policy. i would like to thank mr charles goerens very much for taking on this important project. i share the european commission's concern that we should pay particular attention to improving the quality of aid. understandably, in difficult times of crisis, we must be extra careful about how we spend the money we receive from our taxpayers. there is no doubt that development policy itself needs to be modernised. if the world is changing, and it's changing very quickly, then our response to the problems and the pains of the world should keep pace with that change. the agenda for change is a test case for this, and i hope it will be a successful one. the category of inclusive growth that the commissioner was just talking about is the concept of how to reconcile economic growth with progress in social requirements. this concept is actually an extension of a very european concept, a very old concept of a social market economy. this keeps us on the right track with the fundamental objective of development economics - reducing poverty. we want development policy to be coherent, effective, sustainable and well coordinated. i am convinced that the 'agenda for change', our report and the european year for development will bring us closer to this goal.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. in considering the situation of the banking sector in poland, i would like to point out that cooperative banks represent exclusively polish capital and are linked to the local environment, which allows for its rational and safe use. in the face of the financial crisis, they did not limit their lending and continued to finance their customers. in the context of the crd4 and the crr, i would like to draw attention to the special situation of cooperative and merging banks and advocate the introduction of a long transitional period for them in the compulsory calculation of the short-term liquidity ratio provided for in the content of both documents. due to the specific nature of their core business, most cooperative banks do not meet strict individual capital and liquidity standards. this requirement, in view of the implementation of the provisions of the directive and the regulation, will threaten the existence of their sector.
in writing . small and medium-sized enterprises now employ 70% of all workers in the european union and account for 85% of new jobs created between 2002 and 2010. small and medium-sized enterprises play a very important role in the process of improving the economic situation of the european union and the gdp of the countries. therefore, all activities aimed at supporting and developing and promoting smes are of paramount importance. it is important to eliminate ineffective and inconsistent legal and administrative regulations related to the development of smes, to focus on problem solving, to promote support programmes together with their evaluation of effectiveness and to promote a platform for cooperation between enterprises.
i agree with everything that mp mikolášik said, except for one thing: sergei magnitsky was not a human rights activist. he was a decent, ordinary, normal guy who didn't want to steal. and just because he didn't want to steal... that he didn't want to participate in the corruption process... he died, he was put in a russian prison. so you are absolutely right that today our duty - and this was also said by the member for ojuland - is to remember this man, this ordinary man, an ordinary russian, who did not want to steal, who did not want to participate in this industry, which today is perhaps the most productive industry in russia, that is, the industry of corruption. our duty is to do the very minimum that the ojuland report proposes, which is to issue visas, freeze the assets of those we suspect may be involved in the murder of this innocent man, a man who tried to behave morally in an immoral situation such as we are facing in russia. this is our duty, this is our duty. if we are serious about what we call european values, if we are serious about ourselves, then we should do everything we can to prevent what has happened and give it expression.
mr. chairman, please! i'm going to start with a very personal reflection. i grew up in a town where the russian garrison was stationed. and it's brought me into contact with a lot of normal, ordinary russians, very decent people. as a member of the european parliament, i have already had the opportunity to meet with the leaders of the russian opposition, but also with people who may not be on the front lines, but who are involved in the process of turning russia into a european, more democratic country. and i want to say one thing on their behalf: it is outrageous that a country that is in europe, a country that wants to be a european country, wants to be treated as equals, as we treat ourselves, here in the european union, to allow such practices. first, the corruption in the authorities and the judiciary, and secondly, the methods of eliminating people, as mr migalski said, who want to be honest, to tell the truth, to be honest. they're not necessarily great warriors, but they're just ordinary, decent people.
in writing. i stress the importance of creating a single airspace, as any further delay in its creation could lead to an absolute paralysis of eu air traffic in the near future. the issue of the smooth operation of the aviation sector is so crucial and important that we have been thinking about the capacity of the aircraft itself for some time, rather than emphasizing the importance of airspace itself. i support the rapporteur and believe that the member states have committed themselves to the implementation of the single sky. they should therefore be involved in the introduction of appropriate legislation at this stage. there are, of course, concerns and risks associated with the transformation of air traffic management. however, a highly qualified and adequately remunerated workforce will ensure the coherence of the system. one of the greatest challenges we naturally face is to stop the fragmentation of european airspace and to replace the fragmentation of member states with appropriate blocks of airspace in order to improve efficiency and reduce congestion.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. − madam president, we have to keep the pressure up within our respective political families so that the timetable is kept and we have an agreement on the multiannual financial perspective. we cannot tackle the crisis without the means needed to fuel growth in europe. first things must come first. we cannot meet our pledge for more europe without a budget commensurate with our ambitions and now a little institutional twist. we have to realise these ambitions with one budget – with one unified budget – in order to safeguard the prerogatives of this house and the democratic scrutiny of the whole process. we have to make it clear that all expenditure should be kept within the eu framework. as alain lamassoure has said, we do not need to reinvent the wheel; we have to fight for an ambitious multiannual framework, but we cannot do it effectively while simultaneously thinking about new budgets or new institutions. these ideas may not only weaken the progress of this house but also lead to the fragmentation of the union.
i think the reasons for this dispute are well known to us: the small budgetists stress the need to cut all government spending, the big budgetists rightly stress the pro-development nature of this spending for the whole of europe. but i'm interested in something else entirely. explain to me how it is that the chadians and the socialists in this room are talking about a 'large budget' while at the same time the same political parties in austria, sweden, the netherlands, finland, luxembourg, and finally in germany and france are seeking to reduce this budget. is it not easy for the socialists and the chadians in this house to talk about a large budget when they know very well that their political interests and the reduction of european union funding are well protected in the council by pressure from their own parties? if that were the case, the european parliament would risk losing its reputation, the european parliament would risk being ridiculous, and the whole defence of european solidarity would be a negotiating theatre.
madam president, i would like to mention four risks which i think are related to the mff negotiations. firstly, the decision on the multiannual financial framework is not taken in november. how can we explain to citizens that they cannot count on the eu budget as a catalyst for jobs and growth? we have to make it very clear to the member states – who will come to the negotiating table to say no – that the treaty allows us to have the budget even if they block the decision. the only challenge will be to identify the legal basis for launching new investment programmes, and we will find it. secondly, corrections. i agree that they are crucial for the process. so far the debate has focused on expenditure. the corrections should be transparent, temporary and few in number. the debate begins only now, and i believe that it would be irresponsible to move to a growing number of national corrections. this will make the decision in november impossible. thirdly, the risk of the traditional vat system – which deserves retirement – not being replaced by a new, feasible system is rather high, so we might end up with an increased role for gni and a vague commitment to own-resources reform in the future. it would be a shame if we could not afford it any more. lastly, on behalf of my committee, let me say regarding cohesion policy that we should not depart from the major mission of the policy, which is investing in growth – but with a view to reducing the structural disparities, which means that the national and regional allocation criteria should respect the berlin methodology.
the proposed multiannual budget is modest. he is too modest and cannot be explained by the crisis and the need to save. the cap budget in real terms is already 12% smaller in real terms and the proposed cap reform reduces its competitiveness and imposes additional tasks for which there are no funds. the report wrongly proposes to treat pillar i and pillar ii together in the cap assessment. the pillar i budget is based on old, historical calculations on criteria that have long since become obsolete. pillar ii: its budget is shaped on the basis of objective, cohesive criteria. the second pillar is mainly for rural development and environmental programmes and less for farmers. the linking of these two pillars leads to the wrong conclusions, and i'm surprised that this was proposed.
the debate shows that a large majority of the european parliament supports a budget that reflects the objectives of the european union. the european parliament, we are all aware of the crisis and the need to save, but the real budget of the european union is shrinking. therefore, the use of artificial measures to reduce the budget simply to win the support of one's constituents in a member state is not a legitimate action today. and it leads not only to a departure from the goals we set for ourselves, but above all to budgetary difficulties. i would very much like the council to pay attention to the current state of the budget and to the consequences of not keeping promises.
in writing. the european parliament is the institution representing all eu citizens and as such has a special role to play in shaping the future multiannual financial framework. the right treatment of cohesion policy as an eu investment policy contributing to a systematic improvement in the living standards of citizens is particularly noteworthy. it is therefore better to avoid allocating as much as 25% of the regional funds to the european social fund, because although it plays a significant role in promoting employment and combating social exclusion cohesion policy contributes more effectively to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in parallel, specific eu support programmes for the poorest should be maintained. the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 should also bring us closer to full convergence of direct payments in the eu under the common agricultural policy. however, rural development financed by the eafrd already has different characteristics, which are determined by the size and degree of rural development in the different member states. therefore, the national allocations of the eafrd should be maintained. the european parliament must also firmly oppose any attempt to reduce rural development funding as being contrary to the objective of achieving socio-economic cohesion within the union.
in writing. in recent years, the european institutions have drawn up a number of proposals, documents and pacts. there are various kinds of union - economic, monetary, banking and political. we are creating new mechanisms, oversight, agencies. tops chase the top. the strategy paper europe 2020 was adopted even earlier. in addition, work on the 2014-2020 financial perspective and on key policy reforms is being carried out in parallel. for the average eu citizen, this multiplicity of initiatives and activities is often incomprehensible. in my opinion, the three most important goals are now. first, agreeing on a new financial framework to safeguard the stability of the union and to finance development from the union budget as early as 2014. secondly, a single banking supervisory mechanism should be established to strengthen the banking system in europe and contribute to the creation of a banking union. efficient and effective banking creates the conditions for the growth that is so expected. we must also ensure that a situation does not recur where a crisis in financial institutions, the failure of banks, has led to a financial crisis and then an economic crisis, and the budgets of the member states have had to allocate huge sums of money to rescue them. third, the strengthening of economic governance, surveillance and budgetary coordination in the member states must be combined with deepening structural reforms, increasing labour productivity and competitiveness. these actions will contribute to strengthening the union's political structure as an efficient structure strengthened by economic integration and reforms necessary to combat the crisis.
mr. chairman, please! my committee, the committee on the internal market, is drawing attention to the need to reduce expenditure on external staff. we stressed that the budget for this purpose should not exceed 10% of total staff expenditure. given this position, i believe we should focus on the continuous development of the it infrastructure. we should be working to make it possible for citizens to do more and more things online. this includes the solvit system, which is an effective out-of-court dispute resolution mechanism. however, it requires additional measures to promote it among businesses and to enhance its supporting role for the functioning of the single market. i voted against the report because i believe that the specific areas which are crucial for economic policy need to be dealt with separately.
in the current programming period, we are implementing the budget with the participation of the new member states, including poland. we can already see that the measures taken have contributed to their development and to the equalisation of economic opportunities. this report, while taking account of a number of important considerations, nevertheless contains a warning against making cuts in the commission proposal. the priority task in the economic sphere is, in my view, to implement the initiatives defined in the framework of the single market. i think it is necessary to guarantee the means to do so. this also means that smes need to be given easier access to eu funding. activities to promote entrepreneurship should be undertaken. the effective functioning of the single market obviously requires an adequate level of consumer protection. i would ask that the appropriations for this purpose be increased, as they are insufficient in the present draft.
in writing. − given that the european parliament is seen as an institution of public trust, any alleged breach of law by members of the european parliament should be clarified immediately. in this particular case, the austrian investigating authorities, in order to establish a fair and reliable explanation of the case, must question martin ehrenhauser. the fact that the accuser is another member of the european parliament gives this case a special dimension. the allegations made are, in my view, very serious and must be condemned immediately and forcefully, including within parliament. mr. martin ehrenhauser has expressed his willingness to testify before the authorities in the hope that they will allow him to be cleared of the charges. as a representative of the solidarity poland club, whose activities are concerned with the image of european society, i have decided to vote for the waiver of the immunity of member martin ehrenhauser.
in writing. −experts in the global economy say that the coming year, 2013, will be as difficult, if not more so, than the previous years of the crisis, or even worse. in such a situation, it is natural for national budgets to be checked or cut. but the eu budget is a different kind of budget, it is an investment budget, promoting entrepreneurship, activity, job creation, innovation and growth through its funds. member states often abandon investment, especially social investment, when faced with a crisis, which i believe is essential to overcome the crisis, to maintain growth and not lose competitiveness. that is why i voted for an increase in the eu budget, which will help us to implement the adopted growth pact. at the same time, i am constantly stressing the need for austerity in every european institution. the ep will also make savings if its budget is actually reduced by comparing the amount of the budget with the prospect of the accession of the new member croatia.
in writing. - in the 2013 eu budget, i think we should focus on reaching some political compromise, especially in times of crisis. the european scene is currently divided into two political fronts, one of which calls for deep budgetary cuts - i am thinking in particular of france, but also of germany, sweden and the netherlands, and therefore of the highly developed community countries - and the other, the 'barricade', which clearly identifies the countries of central and eastern europe and southern europe, and therefore those countries which are still striving to develop with the help of the european union's money. with 2013 and the very possible budget cuts (there is talk of saving in every sector possible) we may run out of money to finance previously agreed commitments. the european social fund (esf), which is of vital importance because it affects all eu citizens, both those already working and those looking for work, is already under serious threat, as are many other eu programmes, including erasmus, which could suffer the most. in times of crisis, it is necessary to strengthen social protection for the unemployed on the one hand, and at the same time to develop various jobs, both in the public and private sectors, which requires intensive financial support.
in writing. − the commission's draft budget reflects parliament's priorities for programmes and initiatives to be strengthened. these include sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment for young people and smes. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. − this is a particularly important budget, as it concludes the financial framework for 2007-13. during that time, the european union allocated considerable funds to the cohesion fund, which has led to many infrastructure and environmental investments, including in the kujawy-pomeranian voivodeship, where i come from. most of these investments have already been made, and now it is time to pay them back from the eu budget. therefore, the 2013 budget cannot only take into account the projects planned for that particular year, but must also contain the means to settle the investments of previous years. this is a matter of the credibility of the european union.
in writing. - the advantage of the preliminary report by mr böge and mr kalfin is undoubtedly the investment nature of the eu budget, whether through the funding of the lifelong learning programme, including the erasmus programme, or the recognition of the eu's cohesion policy, of which poland is the main beneficiary, as a pillar of european solidarity and a strategic tool for sustainable growth. the continuation of the programme for the most deprived and the opposition to the uk rebate are also commendable. on the other hand, however, the solutions for financing the climate package, which is extremely harmful to the polish economy, and the eu agencies, including the eeas, decided that i could not support the above report, and therefore abstained.
in writing. − the negotiations on the eu budget for 2014-2020 are entering a crucial phase. in a few days, the cypriot presidency will present a new proposal for a seven-year budget with concrete figures. the union budget, although systematically reduced over the past few years, continues to be a symbol of solidarity with the community's poorer countries, as it supports their structural changes and their efforts to promote investment for growth and jobs throughout the community. the eu budget for 2014-2020 must above all include adequate resources to continue to address development gaps, research and development and to support competitiveness and innovation. the amount for cohesion policy, which is a key instrument for investment and reducing macroeconomic disparities between eu regions and countries, must therefore be kept at least at the same level. it is also essential to continue the eu programmes targeting young people and those that have been very successful in promoting culture, education and the media. it is important for integration that the european globalisation adjustment fund and the existing financial resources for co2 reduction and climate change mitigation are maintained at least at their current level.
in writing. - in the vote on the multiannual financial framework, i voted in favour of the ep's position, which calls for a guarantee of the sustainability of agricultural expenditure and structural policies, in particular cohesion policy. we cannot vote against growth policies and investments to improve the quality of life, education and job creation. we have set ourselves targets in the europe 2020 strategy and we must achieve them. we must be credible and fight for what we promise to 500 million citizens. spending cuts in the eu's next multiannual budget will slow its growth and make it harder to get out of the crisis. remember that the eu budget is an investment budget and cannot be compared with national budgets. given the need for rapid budgetary decisions, which are the basis for all union action, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i believe that the report by mr boege and mr kalfin represents a balanced position of the european parliament towards the future multiannual financial framework, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of this document. i am pleased that the report highlights such important aspects as the investment nature of cohesion policy and the role of the eu budget in achieving the europe 2020 objectives. however, one of the proposals in the report concerned me, and i decided, together with 40 other members, to table an amendment for the plenary, which i would now like to explain. i believe that allocating 25% of cohesion policy resources to the esf not only imposes unnecessary constraints but also runs counter to the need to increase the flexibility of the multiannual financial framework proposed in the remainder of the report. i would also like to thank the members who voted in favour of this amendment today.
in writing. − some member states try to use the current financial crisis in order to reduce their contribution to the eu budget. they bow to or even consciously exploit the anti-european sentiments which arose in some countries. however, reducing the european budget means hurting one’s own economy as much as that of the other member states. the eu budget redistributes 94% back to the member states and is largely devoted to investments. those investments are proven to boost economic growth, not only in the cohesion countries but also with the so-called net payers. the european parliament has to make a stand for this investment budget and has to oppose any cuts. the budgetary austerity which some member states also want to impose onto the eu is a self-defeating strategy. the eu does not have any debts to pay off and has one of the lowest rates of spending on its own administration. therefore it makes no sense to apply budgetary cuts to europe’s most efficient mean of investments. therefore i supported this interim report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the multiannual financial framework, as it emphasises the need to guarantee that agricultural expenditure and structural policy are maintained at least at current levels, which is beneficial for poland. the position of parliament has been consistent and clear on the new perspective for several months, and this strengthens our position vis-à-vis the council. attempts to limit money for cohesion policy are incomprehensible, especially when there is a lack of investment spending in europe. net payers should be aware that most of this money comes back to them in the form of investment or additional exports.
in writing. - the debate on the size and shape of the budget is also a debate on the methods of combating the economic crisis. more and more people are coming to believe that cuts and belt tightening will kill the patient rather than cure him. the socialists and democrats (s&d) are calling for a large budget to be earmarked for investment. it would be the equivalent of the marshall plan, but funded by europeans, for europeans. i am pleased that president josé manuel barroso has taken a similar position. the defence of cohesion policy, which can best serve the role of the european marshall plan mentioned above, is particularly important today. the second pillar of the common agricultural policy can also fulfil a similar function. it should be given special protection against the budget cuts announced. and there is great concern about the announced cuts in spending on science and research. they are clearly at odds with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i think the european commission's budget proposals are optimal. any attempt to cut back should be met with resistance. the european parliament should also take care of its own subjectivity when working on the multiannual financial framework. at the same time, it cannot be ruled out that the european parliament's rejection of the narrow multiannual financial framework will be a decisive step.
in writing. − the budget of the european union is a key instrument for the sustainable and inclusive development of the union as a whole. in the current crisis, the eu budget is part of the solution to europe's recovery, by supporting investment and job creation. however, the proposal to freeze the 2014-2020 mff ceilings at the 2013 level will leave insufficient funds to finance these priorities. that's why i abstained.
in writing. − we are moving ever closer to adopting the 2014-2020 budget. unfortunately, there is a growing controversy here. most net contributors want the budget to be frozen at least, or even reduced if possible. i'm very much against it. the european union's budget for 2014-2020 should be well in excess of eur 1 trillion. let us remember that this budget is for new infrastructure investments, for boosting production and for creating new jobs. it must be a pro-investment budget, not a budget to limit the eu community. for countries such as poland, it is also of additional importance it makes it possible to close the gaps which unfortunately still exist. without a high budget and directing it to the relatively less developed countries, we will never eliminate the differences in living standards among the people of the european union.
in writing. − due to the presence of many elements extremely harmful to poland's sovereignty, the solidarity poland delegation in the edw group could not vote in favour of the resolution. i am convinced that no one who wants poland to retain its sovereignty and to cooperate within the eu as an equal cannot in good conscience support solutions that lead to the creation of a single european superstate. among other things, it has introduced an obligation to allocate up to 20% of spending to combating climate change. the current eu policy in this area (the so-called energy and climate package) will lead to a doubling of energy prices in poland, loss of competitiveness of polish industry, loss of several hundred thousand jobs and may threaten poland's economic growth. lack of clear provisions on the reform of the common agricultural policy, in particular ensuring equal conditions of competition and equal subsidies for polish farmers and farmers from other member states or introducing a new european tax to be used to directly finance the european union, without the intermediation of the member states. the resolution explicitly encourages the introduction of a european vat. the introduction of its own taxes will be a step towards the creation of a federal state of the union.
in writing. − the report presented is a step towards a european union own resources system based primarily on the proceeds of an unfair vat tax, which burdens not only the administration but above all the poorest citizens of the union. i am in favour of maintaining the present system, where the vast majority of funding comes from national contributions, and that is why i voted against.
in writing. - the proposed methods and procedures for making available vat-based own resources are complex and require complex calculations. moreover, these methods do not seem to take account of the differences between the vat systems of the various member states. in addition, the commission will be burdened with more administrative work and vat-based own resources will continue to flow through national finances rather than directly into the eu budget. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. − the proposed legislation is generally consistent with the aim of implementing the political strategies of the european union. at the same time, the principles of sound financial management shall be respected. there is also evidence of increased efforts to simplify the administrative and financial rules governing framework programmes. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
on behalf of the efd group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european commission intends to continue next year with the implementation of the climate and energy package, among other things. 2013 also marks the transition to the third stage of the european union's emissions trading system. in this context, the commission is fighting for more and more rights to intervene in national policies and the competitiveness of individual economies. neither parliament nor the governments of the member states should agree to this. the draft decision on the timetable for action on co2 emission allowances is just one example of the measures proposed by the commission that could lead to further plunging national economies into crisis, especially countries such as poland, whose industry is based on coal. at the same time, i hope that next year the commission will also be considering my fellow citizens' request to be registered as one of the first citizens' initiatives to suspend the harmful climate and energy package for our part of europe. we support this initiative and will see it as a test for the commission and the member states. the commission has just proposed that next year be the year of citizens.
in writing. despite repeated calls from the european parliament, the commission has not presented a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. i therefore call on the commission to publish such a strategy in the form of a directive on combating violence against women in 2013, the european year of citizens. the same is true of equal pay for women and men. in its resolution of 13 march 2012, the parliament called on the commission to submit a proposal for a review of the existing provisions on the application of the equal pay principle. we hope that the commission will present such a proposal next year. it is necessary to resume work on the non-discrimination directive. the european union must take care of all its citizens even more in times of crisis. i therefore call on the commission to continue its efforts in this area and on the member states to adopt a directive. i support the commission's efforts to increase youth employment. the situation is critical. in the eu, the average rate of unemployment among young people has exceeded 22%, and in some member states, 50%. as a parliament, we expect the commission to present in the framework communication on the employment package clear objectives and timetable and legislative proposals in the area of youth mobility. the communication should also include provisions on the european youth guarantee, the framework guidelines on the quality of placements, language competences and youth entrepreneurship.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask mr murphy whether he knows about the israeli people who are being attacked by qassam rockets from the gaza territory? these people, including innocent children who are hiding in bunkers in the daytime, are under permanent attack from this territory. the second question is: what kind of aid was delivered by this ship you have described in recent days. how much and what kind of products were going to be delivered to the gaza strip? according to my knowledge, there was nothing.
it would seem that the agreement we are discussing today is obviously in the interests of the citizens of the european union. it's a technical agreement and we should vote for it because it brings savings, and no one doubts that especially the medical products from israel are of the highest quality and no technical problems with their quality have ever been reported. but once again, the debate has been met with a wave of anti-israel rhetoric - often lies - that has nothing to do with reality. israel is a democracy, israel doesn't occupy anyone, jews have the right to build their settlements on their land, to which they return after so many years of exile. none of us should question that right. i want to say very clearly that i consider it a particular hypocrisy and i am particularly outraged that we are attacking a country and making the accusation that we want to support a country that defends our civilization, that defends europe against islamic terrorism. i want to say that it is especially outrageous that those who do not see the human rights violations in cuba, who are able to applaud fidel castro, who do not see the problem in venezuela, who finally do not see the human rights problems in belarus, want to lecture israel. israel is a democracy and often the country's most vocal critics are in its own parliament. i am wholeheartedly in favor of this agreement.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking about an agreement between the european union and israel that will make it easier for generic medicines from israel to enter the european union. this could bring down their prices, it would be good for the citizens of the european union. but that agreement is being challenged in this room for political reasons, not technical, not substantive. the agreement has been criticized, trying to make it a hostage to the israeli-palestinian conflict. i am personally very critical, in many cases negative, of israeli policy in the occupied territories, but i am in favor of this agreement for the following reasons. first, the agreement applies to israel within the borders that are recognized, and this is the world trade organization standard, and this is obvious to everyone, and there are instruments that enable and guarantee the capture of products that are falsely labeled. secondly, blocking the agreement would be a sanction sanctions which the european parliament is not empowered to establish or initiate. thirdly, we want to resolve the conflict between the palestinian authority and israel, but we should be more effective, we should ask the council and the commission to do more effectively in this respect. fourth, blocking this deal would be a very bad signal for israel, especially today when it is under enormous pressure from, among others, iran, when iran is on the verge of acquiring nuclear weapons capability. so i am against the amendments that have been tabled, in favour of an agreement which is good for the european union, but also in favour of increased activity by the european union to mediate in the dispute between israel and palestine.
it would seem, listening to this debate, that the room is divided into those who are for peace and those who are against peace in the middle east; those who share violence and those who are against violence. but it's a false dilemma, we all want the same thing in the middle east. i respect that there are people in this room who are against the caa protocol, but i would like them to stop being hypocritical and stop talking about the source. today, we can tell where a given orange was grown, but we can't tell where the medicine was made? you can drop the hypocrisy, say you're against it, and that's fine. i'm all for that protocol. i'll tell you why i'm behind this protocol. because if a dose of medicine that costs 40 zł, 10 euros, in poland today, that dose could be 10% cheaper, then a poor person, a poor person in poland can spend 4 zł less on the same medicine, and for 4 zł a poor person can buy a lunch. so today, if you're against this deal, tell this poor man straight up, i'm against it and i'm denying you that one extra lunch. that's the line of hypocrisy that should not be crossed, even in politics. one more thing. you say that the government in israel is not good. he may be bad, but i spoke recently with the leader of the labor party, which is in opposition, and she supports, supports this deal wholeheartedly, because it is in the interest of modern israel, israel and those who love peace in this country.
madam president! 99% of eu companies are small and medium-sized enterprises, employing 70% of the total workforce. this alone shows their enormous importance for the european economy. measures are therefore needed to facilitate competitiveness in this area and to reduce the administrative burden on businesses. meanwhile, european regulations impose excessive administrative and bureaucratic burdens that financially overstretched firms are often unable to cope with. i'm in favor of strong support for micro-enterprises. actions should be taken to promote the professional activation of citizens, with particular attention to young people. when using temporary privileges and rebates, decision-making authorities should encourage the setting-up and pursuit of economic activities. today, many people have a legitimate fear of doing so, in part because of the often complex tax regulations. given the small proportion of small enterprises involved in trade outside the union, it seems necessary to take initiatives to stimulate this area.
the united states is a key player in the security and development of europe. mutual trade cooperation must therefore be given priority in order to strengthen transatlantic economic relations. the ongoing dialogue within the jobs and growth working group is of great importance. they serve to develop cooperation methods to increase growth potential and promote financial stability and the creation of quality jobs. these actions must be in support of entrepreneurship and financial market stabilisation. it is necessary to further open up the public procurement market, to achieve full reciprocity and transparency, and to increase the opportunities for enterprises by enabling them to obtain public contracts at all levels of government according to national rules. in supporting the resolution, i would also like to point out that the issue of visas remains unresolved for poland, which also limits to some extent the mutual trade exemption.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution for two reasons. first, because the main objectives of the draft amending budget are to transfer funds to risk-sharing instruments and to revise and finance the planned own resources. secondly, because this project is fully in line with the amendments to the financial regulation agreed between the european parliament and the council.
in writing. − the main task of the authority is to provide independent and transparent scientific advice on matters affecting food and feed safety. it is therefore necessary that the authority implements measures to ensure its credibility. they would avoid the shortcomings of conflicts of interest and lack of transparency that have occurred in the past. the independence strategy adopted by the authority is still too weak. in addition, there are no provisions for sanctions and no provisions for the publication of the cvs of experts and scientists working within the office. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. − the european medicines agency provides opinions to the member states of the european union and the eu institutions on issues related to the quality, safety and efficacy assessment of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. it is therefore of the utmost importance to avoid conflicts of interest. however, in june 2012, the agency experienced a 'revolving door syndrome' whose consequences are still unknown as they are still being investigated. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which amends council decision 2008/971/ec to allow the import of the ‘qualified’ category of forest reproductive material into the european union from certain third countries that satisfy the conditions to meet the ‘qualified’ category. qualified material is derived from parent trees that are selected on the basis of the superior quality of their observed characteristics. the third countries that we are referring to are croatia, norway, serbia, turkey and the united states. i am certain that it is in our mutual interest to pursue this course.
in writing. - i voted for the motion because of its benefits. the proposed update will facilitate trade, in particular with regard to imports of forest reproductive material. it will also allow for a faster response to market needs, especially for plantations of fast-growing trees for energy and biomass production.
in writing. - citizens are at the heart of the eu's concerns. this is confirmed by a number of documents, starting with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. unfortunately, although eu citizens have many rights, they are often unable to exercise them because they are not aware of them. an interesting debate at the opening of single market week, which was attended mainly by citizens, showed that the lack of information is a very big problem and a real barrier to taking full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. one of these important possibilities is the right to move freely within the eu. it is on this basis that we can develop the mobility that is so crucial to the european economy. however, the full potential of mobility depends on citizens being fully informed of their rights. i am very pleased that the european commission has proposed to make 2013 the european year of citizens, because it will be a great opportunity to reach citizens in every corner of the eu and at every level, whether eu, national, regional or local, with information in the most effective way. i voted for the report because i have always stressed the importance of effective information. i also believe that the european parliament, as the most democratic institution in the eu, should be the guardian of the rights and duties of over 500 million europeans and their effective enjoyment.
in writing. - the institution of eu citizenship will celebrate its 20th anniversary next year. it was intended to remedy the community's so-called democratic deficit and to increase public involvement in its functioning. in today's view, these objectives have not been achieved. further eurobarometer surveys show that awareness of eu citizenship is low and few people associate it with any rights. the fundamental problem is not only that citizens of the union are not aware of their rights, but above all that they are so little involved in the functioning of the community. that is why we should focus on strengthening pro-bourgeois attitudes and creating a sense of european patriotism. europeans who are aware of their rights will use them intuitively. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which promotes a series of actions to make europeans more aware of their rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the idea of a european year of citizens. this proposal's main purpose is to ensure that all union citizens are aware of the rights available to them in a cross-border context by virtue of their union citizenship status, so as to enable them to make informed decisions about whether to make use of their right to free movement and to facilitate the effective exercise of this right. many citizens of poland have taken advantage of the ability to travel, work, and reside in different parts of the eu. i am in favour of raising awareness of the importance and benefits of the right to free movement and residence. i hope, however, that the initiatives that will be organised at union, national, regional or local levels linked to the objectives of the european year will not duplicate the work of the ‘europe for citizens’ programme.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's decision to designate 2013 as the european year of citizens is very important for european democracy. all the initiatives and activities, information campaigns, conferences and public hearings organised in the coming year will be undertaken to contribute to raising public awareness of citizens' rights relating to movement and residence in other eu countries. the establishment of the european year of citizens aims to educate, especially young people, about their rights in the european union and to enable them to exercise them. i think this is a very valuable initiative and i voted for the report by antigoni papadopoulou. thank you, sir.
in writing. - almost 20 years ago, european citizenship was introduced and automatically granted to citizens of all member states. this gave them many rights within the european union. they can vote in local elections in the countries where they live, they can stand for election to the european parliament, they can reside, live or study in all the member states. unfortunately, as the report shows, only 43% of eu citizens say they are familiar with the term 'european citizen', and as many as 67% feel not very well informed about their rights. in addition, there is all kinds of abuse and discrimination on the basis of nationality by officials and employers, which effectively discourages many people from going abroad to work. diplomas and qualifications are not recognised, and language barriers effectively hinder the exercise of their rights. the current economic crisis and unemployment have further highlighted these problems. i am therefore very pleased that the european commission has proposed to designate 2013 as the european year of citizens. we must do everything we can to make the most of this time to raise awareness among citizens about their rights. we cannot allow the european solidarity and sense of belonging that we have built up over the years to be destroyed by a temporary financial crisis. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to give european citizenship more visibility.
in writing. − citizenship of the union was established to strengthen and enhance the value of european identity and to enable european citizens to participate actively in the integration process. but the democratic deficit we face in the european union is robbing citizens of their basic rights to freedom and democratic governance. in addition, the excessive bureaucracy of the european union and the lack of transparency are alienating citizens from the european institutions. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the death of sergei magnitsky, and the subsequent judicial cover-up of the harassment of his family, was another example of the gross violation of human rights and suppression of democracy that is going on in russia. furthermore, the russian authorities have not carried out a credible investigation into this tragic case. we need to remember that after magnitsky uncovered the fraud carried out by state officials, the people that he accused were responsible first for his detention, and then for the degrading treatment in prison where he died. we need to implement an eu-wide visa ban on those officials and freeze their financial assets.
in writing. - i strongly supported the report by ms ojuland, which called on the council to draw up a common eu list of officials responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky, the subsequent judicial cover-up and the continuing and persistent harassment of his mother and wife. the case of sergei magnitsky has been covered up in russia for a long time, the investigation is being conducted sluggishly and despite clear evidence, those responsible for the death of this russian lawyer are still at large. in my view, this report sends a clear signal to the russian authorities that the european union will not give up its demand for justice for those wrongfully convicted. i find it unacceptable to accuse sergei magnitsky after his death. i consider that the vote on this report is an expression of our european values.
in writing. - the arrest of sergei magnitsky, the conditions of his detention and ultimately his death constitute a significant and well-documented example of human rights violations. the fact that he was charged posthumously further demonstrates the irregularities of the russian justice system. the visa restrictions are a political signal of the european union's concern about these events. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. a single european sky (ses) could reduce delays and make air travel safer. most importantly for eu consumers, it could reduce ticket costs. as air traffic in europe approaches maximum capacity, maximising airspace through a coordinated eu approach using new technologies makes perfect sense.
in writing. − member states have overwhelmingly supported legislation to create a single european sky and therefore have a public commitment to implement it. it is necessary to act swiftly and to accelerate the implementation of the single sky rules in order to ensure the operation of air navigation services. it is therefore necessary to establish a binding time-frame. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. - i'm pleased to accept this important document. i have said many times - whether in the whole parliament or in the committee on transport and tourism - that we cannot think of a common europe without putting the idea of a single european sky into practice. the situation where the routes of passenger aircraft are still controlled by 27 different control centres over europe is unacceptable. today, passenger planes can fly at speeds that allow them to fly over some of the countries of the community in a matter of minutes. it is inefficient, unprofitable and incomprehensible to require them to make manoeuvres during this time to change the route of their flight from the shortest and fastest possible one. we don't need to introduce an obligation to trade emissions in aviation we just need to implement the idea of the single european sky to achieve similar environmental effects. so once again, i call on the member states: it is time to act. i would also like to remind you of the commitment to introduce the so-called fabs before the end of this year.
in writing. - we are talking a lot about citizens' rights, especially in the context of making 2013 the european year of citizens. so i'm glad that we're also focusing on the rights of particular groups like passengers. we can point to a number of rights common to all modes of transport, such as the prohibition of discrimination against passengers on the grounds of their place of residence or nationality, access to information on travel conditions or support in the event of disruption to the journey, for example in the form of full refund of tickets in the event of cancellation or long delay. of course, passenger rights vary according to the mode of transport, but the common catalogue will help to enforce these rights better and more effectively. however, such a catalogue should not preclude the flexibility and proportionality required by the different means of transport. i particularly support the commission's intention to continue its information campaigns, as i always stress that clear, complete and accessible information is the basis for exercising the rights conferred. i support the report because i believe that such a common basic package of rights for all modes of transport can guarantee a basic level of service and a uniform way of behaving for all carriers, which will provide passengers with better travel conditions and will be another step towards deepening the eu's internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report and i agree with the range of requests addressed to the commission, member states and other stakeholders (transport companies, service providers, industry) on issues such as clear and timely information of passengers, price-transparency, liability in the case of insolvency, enforcement of legislation by specific bodies at national level, as well as commission monitoring and infringement procedures. eu consumers and their rights should be our priority. in addition, i particularly welcome the emphasis placed on the needs of persons with disabilities and reduced mobility.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because it is essential to ensure that passengers in the european union are afforded a minimum level of protection for all means of transport. passengers have the right to be informed of their rights in a simple, understandable and accessible way. the application and enforcement of these rights should be the responsibility of national enforcement authorities across the eu, which should cooperate more effectively to this end.
in writing. − the council, as a union institution, should be accountable to the citizens of the european union for the implementation of union funds. however, the council's attitude hinders democratic control by not cooperating with parliament in the discharge procedure. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. − in 2010, the agency covered its building with a vegetable façade, which cost eur 294 641 and for which no public tender was announced. in addition, a transfer of appropriations between budget lines was made to cover its costs. in view of the apparent lack of clear internal rules for the financial management of the agency in this case, i voted in favour of rejecting the discharge.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. these measures should be complementary to the actions of the national institutions. i therefore regret that the egf regulation allows the replacement of social benefits required by national law by egf support. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - sweden fulfils the conditions for the egf and is therefore clearly eligible for financial assistance. the group layoffs at astrazeneca were unexpected, given sweden's strong position in medical research. the pharmaceutical sector is facing an increasing number of generic medicines due to the gradual expiry of patents. on the other hand, sweden is the country that opposes the existence of the egf after 2013. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - redundancies in the shipbuilding industry will worsen the already difficult employment situation in the galicia region. the edf's assistance therefore seems necessary. the spanish authorities started the rapid implementation of the measures, even before the deadline for the decision to grant the egf for the proposed package. however, the speed did not translate into quality information on measures, including training, does not describe in which sectors workers can find work, nor whether the package is tailored to the future economic prospects in the region. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - the netherlands fulfils the conditions laid down in the egf regulation. the construction sector in the geldria region is an important employer and redundancies in this sector will be very significant, therefore there is a need to ensure that people can return to the labour market. on the other hand, however, the netherlands is the member state that has opposed the inclusion of the current egf in the crisis-related derogation, and the future of the egf is therefore at risk. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - the area concerned by the exemption, zealand, is a small labour market, to which access is additionally limited. in addition, the direct effect of zalco's bankruptcy may be the redundancies of other employees in the supply chain. the support of the employees therefore seems essential. on the other hand, however, the netherlands is the member state that has opposed the application of the crisis-related derogation also to the current egf, and therefore the future of the egf is at risk. that's why i abstained.
in writing. − france is eligible for financial assistance under the conditions set out in the egf regulation. the french authorities started implementing the measures before the final decision to grant the egf aid for the proposed package was taken. it includes, inter alia, allowances paid during leave for re-qualification. however, egf support should not contribute directly to unemployment benefits but should be primarily allocated to training programmes and job search. i therefore abstained.
in writing. - denmark's application fulfils the criteria for receiving financial assistance from the egf. the redundancies in vestas have created a difficult situation in this region of denmark. however, denmark is the country that opposed the extension of the crisis-related derogation for the current egf, which calls into question its future beyond 2013. that's why i abstained.
in writing. − the application submitted by germany meets the eligibility criteria provided for in the egf regulation. the implementation of the coordinated package started before the decision to grant the aid was taken and the german authorities took the necessary preventive measures for the future. however, half of the egf support will be allocated to employee benefits, while the egf support should be mainly allocated to job search and training programmes. that's why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr brian simpson because i think it is important to stress the importance of adequate rest periods for seafarers on duty. but above all, i would like to stress the importance of using data on certificates and other documents related to seafarers' education effectively to identify trends in the labour market. the results of the commission's analyses should help representatives of the maritime professions to plan their careers and to make informed decisions on training and professional development. these analyses should also help european maritime universities to better prepare their training offer. finally, i hope that the implementation of the minimum education directive for seafarers will contribute to improving safety at sea, which is one of the european union's priorities, and to improving the chances of european maritime workers on the labour markets.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2008/106/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the minimum level of training of seafarers (com(2011)0555 – c7-0246/2011 – 2011/0239(cod)). the seas have long offered many benefits and resources to our union, thus it is vital that we continue to make the seas safe for everyone. this directive covers the safety and training of the seafarers and imposes the international laws of the stcw into eu law. simply put, it puts the eu on a par with the rest of the seafarers around the world by incorporating the laws that already exist into eu legislation. we have accounted for our high standard of protecting the identity of our seafarers as well as increased safety measures to equate with our higher standard of protecting the workers. many of our citizens are employed as seafarers and now they have the safeguards to protect them while out to sea.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly support the signing of this protocol. the mutual recognition of certificates will remove technical barriers to trade, cutting manufacturers’ costs and enabling them to get their products to the market faster. this will be a major step in improving the life of european consumers by reducing the costs of medicines and increasing the quality and quantity of medical products on the market. it will also decrease unnecessary bureaucracy. i am also glad that eu exporters will have better access to the israeli market and vice versa. as i noted during the plenary debate on this subject (which became very political in nature), israel is the eu’s greatest ally and it defends us from those who wish to harm us. we must undertake all efforts to foster the eu’s cooperation with israel. this protocol is a step in the right direction.
in writing. - there is no doubt that the opportunities of the sme sector are crucial for the eu, and it is in this sector that we should see a real chance to get out of the economic crisis. smes account for 70% of all jobs in the eu and their impact on the european economy is therefore enormous. recognising this significant potential, we should redouble our efforts to increase the competitiveness of smes and their business opportunities. indeed, smes are often blocked by overly complex administrative procedures, which create very burdensome barriers to their expansion in the eu. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that it is essential to create an environment favourable to the development of new enterprises. we should give companies the opportunity to internationalise, to expand beyond the borders of one country, and for this we also need clear rules, harmonised technical standards, information on markets and simple customs rules. in my discussions, i have consistently stressed that it is also crucial for smes to have easy access to information, especially information on funding opportunities, and to be able to identify their needs in areas such as public procurement and the posting of workers. i am convinced that the report is another important step towards a more coherent and coordinated policy towards smes.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the basis for the smooth functioning of the european union economy - as the rapporteur rightly pointed out - is adequate support for small and medium-sized enterprises. in my view, a successful solution to the current crisis should be based on improving the competitiveness of industry, which is highly dependent on smes for its existence. we therefore need to create the right environment for the implementation of innovative solutions in existing and newly created enterprises. unfortunately, we lack a coherent and coordinated industrial policy in the eu. human capital is also an essential element of the efficient functioning of enterprises and is closely linked to their proper functioning. properly managed and, in particular, sound administrative and fiscal policies will also help smes to develop more rapidly and thus to the economy of the european union as a whole.
in writing. − the eu-us economic partnership is a key driver of global economic prosperity, representing the largest and most integrated economic relationship in the world. together, the eu and the us economies account for 49 % of world’s gdp and a third of world trade. the eu and the us are each other’s biggest trade and investment partners, and the volume of trade in goods and services, taken together, amounted to some eur 667.8 billion in 2010 (up from eur 610 billion in 2009). the two partners trade more than eur 1.8 billion per day in goods and services, while more than 15 million jobs are linked to this relationship. i believe that the eu-us relationship has not achieved its full potential and neither side can afford to ignore that a free trade agreement would give us greater prosperity and economic stability. this why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the european union and the united states have always been important trading partners, and the us has supported the development of european countries since the end of the second world war. the us and eu now account for about half of the world's economic output and together trade almost a third of the world's total. this means that europe and the united states have the broadest economic relationship in the world. unfortunately, there is still no regulatory unity in these relations, which is a huge barrier that is particularly difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to overcome, and they are the basis for growth and job creation. moreover, given the ongoing financial crisis, we must strengthen our relationship, because it is the only way to combat it. as the world trade organisation has emphasised, the open and multilateral trading system in place in wto countries is the best driver of growth and improvement in the well-being of people around the world, and we must stick to it if we are to overcome the crisis. agricultural trade is also an important issue, especially in the context of the recently announced us farm bill. in the us, the rules for subsidies are different from the european common agricultural policy, but they are equally high. it is also worthwhile to work on geographical indications in this bilateral trade in agricultural products, which can increase access to agricultural markets in the eu and the us.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. before i ask the question, i just want to inform you that a week ago the polish parliament passed a bill to amend the telecommunications law. this has been long awaited by the commission. the new rules will reduce the retention period for data in poland from two years - a very long period - to 12 months, and poland will join a group of european countries with similar retention requirements. we are also working on a comprehensive data retention law, and specifically on the records of what data is retained and who has access to it. it would therefore be good to know the european commission's plans for changes to european law so that we can incorporate them into our work now. these changes in poland are the result of the work of many ngos who wrote about this issue and put pressure on the state services because they believed that the current solutions violate the right of citizens to privacy. it is therefore worth listening carefully - also at european level - not only to meps but also to ngos, which also emphasise the issue of privacy. i would like to take this opportunity to ask whether the european commission has any data, studies, analyses, information on the impact that shorter data retention periods can have on the effectiveness of the investigation, detection and prosecution of serious crime, as this is one of the main arguments. we talk about it all the time, but can we show something, demonstrate something, prove something? i mean, for example, prosecuting people for crimes like child pornography. because we're always rattling around with information, arguments, and we don't have data.
on behalf of the ppe group. deepening cooperation between the european union and third countries is very important for economic growth and employment, especially in times of crisis. nevertheless, the negotiating mandate should be economically balanced and politically robust. at the negotiating table we should demand clear results on the key demands and therefore the bar should be kept high. non-tariff barriers remain the most important obstacle to bilateral relations with japan. for this reason, the requirements should be clearly defined and achieved within the first year of the start of the negotiations. it is important to guarantee that the negotiation process is halted if a significant number of barriers are not removed during the first twelve months. ensure that there are safeguards in place for both economies, in particular for sensitive sectors such as automotive and electronics. the main condition for the conclusion of the negotiations on the agreement should be the effective and complete removal of the above barriers, the improvement of access to public procurement for european union companies and the conclusion of a comprehensive chapter on investment in the sense of investment protection and market access. i believe that the agreement should be comprehensive, ambitious and fully binding. the free trade agreement should lead to genuine legal openness for european union companies. the eu-japan free trade agreement is certainly worth the effort, as strengthening cooperation and ties between the two sides can lead to mostly positive results.
i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! as i heard during single market week, citizens are not aware of the benefits the market brings to them. this year's jubilee is a great opportunity to reflect on how to better inform citizens about these benefits and what more we need to do to unlock the full potential of the market, in particular to promote economic growth or create new jobs. an important step is certainly to identify the problems that citizens and smes encounter in the single market. we already have a number of proposals and actions to address these problems, but it is important that they are adopted quickly and implemented efficiently in the member states. the services directive is of great importance to the market and to citizens alike, and its implementation is now essential. it is also necessary to create a coherent law to ensure the dynamic development of the single market, since the removal of administrative barriers in one area and their maintenance in another blocks the development of the market. for example, one of the objectives of the public procurement reform is to make it easier for smes to access public contracts, but achieving this objective will only be meaningful if we also make it easier for smes to fulfil the contract they have won by introducing proportionate rules on the posting of workers. the secondment of workers is in turn closely linked to the provision of services in the union and to the effective application of the services directive.
madam president! one of the concerns of citizens is that we are so slow to respond to the needs that citizens have expressed to their concerns. and this document that we're talking about right now is the 20 main concerns. it was presented to citizens last year at the single market forum in krakow. we're gonna have to work a little faster together. i certainly join the voices that are also calling for better information. i would remind you again of the consultations that are taking place. the commission organises them in only a few languages. they must be easily accessible, well-informed and conducted in all the official languages of the european union. i have been listening closely to the debates on this year's single market week and indeed, as mentioned in today's discussion, the digital economy is at the heart of the debate on the single market, but the development of e-commerce is being held back by the fact that we do not have a single postal market. we have succeeded with roaming, commissioner, although i expected a more ambitious proposal from the european commission. let us take the postal services, then, because disproportionately high crossborder charges, which have no justification, are dividing the european market and hampering the growth of e-commerce.
in times of economic crisis, we can particularly appreciate the benefits of the single market. it is the one that has become the engine of the european economy. with nearly 500 million consumers and 23 million businesses, it is the world's largest economic area, and its 27 countries form a single market larger than the 50 us states. we should get rid of our complexes and believe in the union's potential. and fully united, we are able to face not only american competition, but also competition from so-called rising powers. of course, we must be aware of the limitations that still exist, including those related to weak transport and energy networks, the obstacles to the free flow of services, and the lack of a real online marketplace. however, the single market act ii is evidence of a growing awareness of untapped potential and the european union's efforts to remove existing barriers. i wish the commissioner every success in strengthening the single market and in overcoming these barriers.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. commissioner, you have not calmed us down! as you can see, all four votes - mrs pack, mr swoboda, mr løckkegaard and mrs trüpel - are rather an expression of concern about the situation, and that concern is justified. indeed, the calculations you gave us are not reassuring, because this is one of those programs worth investing in. the european union spends a lot of money on absolutely unnecessary things, mrs trüpel pointed out one of them it's true. there is a lot of money being wasted in the european union, but the money that goes to the erasmus programme is not wasted money. this is the best money in the union and we should all be doing our best, the commission in particular, but also the council, to ensure that there is no shortage of this money. especially since the division between the better and the worse is still there, because the amount of scholarships is unfortunately still a reflection of the division of europe. they depend on what country a person is from. unfortunately, a polish student studying in germany or france is not guaranteed the same conditions - not even financial ones - as a german or french student studying in poland. that's one of the things we have to overcome. the issue of loans is also worth supporting, but the most important thing is that there is no shortage of money. we cannot be ashamed in front of our citizens, we cannot be ashamed in front of our students that the european union has run out of money for one of its flagship, leading, best-executed programmes. i would ask you, commissioner, to do everything you can to ensure that this situation is avoided and that european students have the money to study abroad.
at a time when every european government is saying that unemployment among young people entering the labour market is twice as high as among other age groups, is this information that erasmus is in jeopardy, or is this behaviour of the european council not proof of extreme irresponsibility? we're about to hear from these young people - and i'm not surprised - why they need us at all. we are solving our own problems, not solving the problems of the citizens of europe. it is not only because of the crisis that europe is in a position to prove to its citizens every day that it is needed. this is the signal the council is giving us to prove that we are needed by ourselves. but we are not needed by the citizens of europe. i would like to thank commissioner lewandowski and mr lamassoure very warmly: if it had not been for their voice, erasmus would have died quietly and no one would have spoken about it. i am surprised at the voice of mr migalski, who seems to have a complaint against commissioner lewandowski. we are in a situation today where the council and the commission must speak with one voice to solve this problem. i am glad that the european parliament is taking such a united position. madam president! i would remind you, and through you the authorities of this parliament, that we have laid down the conditions under which workers should work in europe in directive no 654 of 1989, and that directive also speaks of the minimum temperature that should prevail in the workplace. i'm not sure that temperature is in this room. i'm talking about the temperature, not the political atmosphere, but the physical temperature.
i'm not going to let you do this. in a nutshell, this is about building trust. the nearly 2.5 million participants in erasmus are looking at the european parliament, the commission and the council with great concern today, but it is also a great test to see if we are determined enough to seize the great opportunity to deepen even further integration. there is nothing better than gaining qualifications, skills through erasmus, through experiences that young people enjoy throughout their lives. that is why we are holding you so tightly today, so that your work for the erasmus programme is effective in this period and in the future. i know you love sports, and that's why i wanted to give you a symbolic lewandowski t-shirt. after yesterday's match, i wish you could be as effective for millions of young people as robert lewandowski was yesterday against real madrid.
in writing. erasmus is one of the most successful 'dedicated' programmes ever offered to young people across europe. it's been working very well so far, and the fact that more than 2 million students have taken advantage of it is proof of that. first of all, it increases the chances of young people on the labour market, gives them the opportunity to stay in a foreign country, meet new people, gain new experiences, learn a language and improve their knowledge. erasmus students become more tolerant, discover their own potential and learn to cope with being away from home. this program could be a kind of introduction to adult life. it makes people more confident, more mature, more independent, and their life plans for the next few years become more precise. erasmus is doing very well, as is shown by the numerous statements and studies of erasmus students and university authorities. maintaining its current formula and the appropriate level of funding seems to be a priority. we are now dealing with a new commission proposal in this area. its content is a matter for further discussion, but it is worth asking the question at the outset whether to change something that works in such a smooth and beneficial way for all stakeholders. as the saying goes, the best is the enemy of the good. so let's not change the good.
in writing. we often discuss the problems of young europeans in the institutions, especially in the context of difficulties in starting a career. we listen less to young people, we talk less to them about their expectations. in return, without consulting the youth, we propose new programs like the youth guarantee, which they criticize and recognize as those that promote inactivity. they themselves are shouting "we need youth opportunities, not youth guarantees". one such 'youth opportunities' is the erasmus programme. one of europe's few great successes. it's unbelievable that we have to discuss the cost savings of this program now. today we should decide to transfer all the funds not used from 2007 to 2013 to this great program, and not to look for savings in it. why do the council and the commission so often take such irrational decisions?
in writing. the erasmus programme is undoubtedly one of the european union's greatest successes in the field of education. it gives thousands of students the opportunity to study in different european countries. it allows you to get to know other education systems, to broaden your knowledge of a foreign language, but also - and most importantly - to be a place of intercultural exchange for people from all over europe. especially now, when the union is facing high levels of youth unemployment, we cannot allow the erasmus programme and the idea of student exchanges to be jeopardised by a lack of funds. young people can't pay for the crisis. it should be stressed that it is the mobility of students and their opportunities to gain international experience that is their chance to find themselves on the labour market. erasmus is our european identity and a very important part of the common market. it is therefore very important that the member states also fulfil their obligations so that there is no shortage of money for the planned exchanges and for the future operation of this programme. this is also something that member states must bear in mind when discussing budgetary expenditure in the future multiannual financial perspective. we must not be short-sighted and look for the savings needed now at the expense of the erasmus programme, which will bring tangible benefits in the future.
i think it is unacceptable that we should be voting on a particular person - we should be voting on him in secret and his name should not be visible. this is a procedure that is, in my opinion, highly unparliamentary, because we voted for a man whose name is not even on the ballot.
mr. chairman, please! the aim of the single market is the free movement of goods, services and capital between member states, which should lead to sustainable economic growth. however, citizens still face difficulties in ensuring its smooth functioning, in particular due to a number of legal loopholes and a lack of information. i therefore agree with the need to make recommendations to the commission and the member states which will help to normalise the functioning of the single market, since improvement will only be possible with the involvement of the member states. it is necessary to harmonise, for example, the recognition of professional qualifications or access to health and pension benefits and banking services. support requires a functioning digital single market to benefit businesses and consumers. i support the call for the modernisation of national public administrations towards the widespread use of electronic services. i also welcome the call for closer cooperation between parliament, the council, the commission and the member states to increase the influence of citizens in the internal affairs of the union.
the eu and japan together account for more than 1/5 of world trade. many high-quality japanese products have enjoyed the trust of a large proportion of europeans for years. a mutual free trade agreement should make it much easier for our businesses to source goods and expand exports to japan. this is evidenced by the fact that a large majority of them support the opening of negotiations. issues such as customs duties, intellectual property rights, the competitiveness of enterprises and, above all, the removal of non-tariff barriers and barriers to access to the public procurement market need to be systematised. in this connection, attention should be drawn to the need to assess progress in the elimination of non-tariff barriers after the start of negotiations, which is of importance for the future position of the parliament. in order to prevent imports from spiralling out of control, we must also take effective account of bilateral safeguard measures, especially in sectors such as the automotive sector, so as not to endanger european businesses. i support this resolution.
in writing. − both the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and the republic of serbia and the transitional agreement were signed in 2008. i voted in favour of the proposal because the regulation proposed is intended to facilitate their correct and efficient application. the provisions and procedures contained therein will allow the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of the provisions of these two agreements.
in writing. − council decision 2003/17/ec lists the countries to which the principle of equivalence applies to imports of fodder plant seed, cereals, beet and oil and fibre plants from third countries. the current period of application of the provisions needs to be extended in order to ensure the supply of the necessary seed material to the european union market. in addition, it is necessary to update the entry for yugoslavia, which has been replaced by several new countries. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. − i have come across the opinion that the cfp has generally left much to be desired over the last 30 years. today, it seems that the commission shares that opinion. the commission’s comment in its green paper on cfp reform notes that ‘the current cfp has not worked well’. on the other hand, it has been acknowledged that the fisheries management within the 12 mile zones has been a success. the report on reporting obligations under council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 stated that ‘the regime is very stable, and the rules have continued to operate satisfactorily’. it seems to me that there is still a lot of work ahead of us. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the common fisheries policy is of great value to the union. the report was adopted unanimously, which is an exception. the rational use of resources to preserve species and balance is a key issue. however, we must be aware that problems may still remain with respect to individual waters and countries. the report, as a guideline, provides a better and stronger basis for safeguarding the interests of the baltic fisheries and polish fishermen. governments should therefore read these provisions and adapt their policies on stocks, exploitation rules and fishermen accordingly.
in writing. − the principle of limited access within 12 nautical miles and, as a result, the management of fisheries within the 12 nautical mile zone is a success story. it demonstrates that member states are able to manage fisheries in a stable and successful manner. this success stands in stark contrast to the failure of the european union's centralised control and sets the direction in which the reform of the common fisheries policy should go. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the european union and the republic of moldova’s aim to assure the mutual protection of geographical indications in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade as well as to promote quality in the food chain and stimulate value for sustainable rural development. this, of course, is a two-way street: the republic of moldova has an interest to develop and protect its current geographical indications in eu territory and to strengthen its relations with the eu. i am also glad that the rapporteur is of the opinion that eu interests are well protected in the agreement and i applaud the fact that the agreement is paving the way for closer eu-moldova trade relations.
in writing. − the geographical indications of agricultural products in the european union are one of the symbols of the european union's presence on the european table. the system of protection of regional agricultural products in the european union achieves well the objective of protecting the names of these products and ensuring their authenticity. both food producers and consumers have repeatedly expressed their satisfaction with the functioning of such a system. it is therefore appropriate to extend its geographical scope to the countries aspiring to become members of the european union. moldova is one such country. moldova's progress towards eu membership has been positively assessed for several years. moldova is certainly the eastern partnership country that is making the most of its political opportunity. the european union should endeavour to further moldova's rapprochement with the community institutions, including the prospect of concluding a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with the eu under the association agreement with the european union. in the light of the above considerations, i consider it appropriate to conclude an agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs. the benefits of the above-mentioned agreement will be shared by both parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova will ensure the mutual protection of geographical indications. the system of application and protection of geographical indications will be extended between the two parties. this will improve the conditions for bilateral trade, as well as promoting food quality and supporting sustainable rural development. this will also strengthen the relations between the european union and the republic of moldova in the future.
in writing. - in view of the still unresolved problem of hunger, which affects 13.6% of the world's population, and the terrible impact this problem has, especially on children and women in developing countries, i support the new food aid convention of 2012. the convention differs in several important respects from the previous one, and this could make the fight against world hunger more effective. i believe that the mainstream of aid should be directed towards programmes to support reconstruction and rehabilitation which will help to strengthen local production and thus allow a gradual move away from emergency aid. and with this approach, we can reduce the dependency of hungry countries on long-term aid. however, we should continue to work on improving some aspects of the convention, including a system where the convention's commitments should be expressed in terms of value, so that we avoid, for example, delays in food supply caused by rising global food prices. this problem arises from the arbitrariness in expressing its minimum annual food support commitments. it is also important to increase the contribution of food aid in the form of donations, and to improve agricultural productivity in countries affected by hunger.
in writing. − in 2010, an estimated 925 million people or 13.6% of the world population did not have enough to eat, despite decreases in income poverty in several regions. 98 % of the world’s undernourished live in developing countries, and 60 % of them are women. the fac is fully in line with the eu’s ongoing efforts to contribute to reducing poverty and eradicating hunger globally within the framework of the millennium development goals. the modifications made in comparison with the fac 1999 constitute a major step forward. these modifications include: moves from a product-based approach to a more varied, needs-based and locally adapted mix of tools; activities that facilitate the transition from relief to rehabilitation and recovery programmes; a more active forum for donor coordination and mutual learning; and increased transparency and openness. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - hunger and food security are now global challenges. the european union is constantly working to help reduce poverty and eradicate hunger in the world. it is necessary to establish a legally binding framework for the provision of food support to developing countries. the food aid convention will help the european union to make progress internationally in this area. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. − consular assistance is essential if you lose your identity documents, are arrested, detained or have any other problems that you may encounter when travelling outside the eu. in accordance with the provisions of the treaty, citizens of the union are entitled to enjoy the diplomatic and consular protection of any other member state in the territory of a third country where the member state of which they are nationals is not represented. this right is an important aspect of eu citizenship and extends the consular protection of europeans worldwide. however, it is becoming increasingly common for citizens to need help not only for everyday problems, such as documentation, but also in emergency situations, which are a major coordination challenge. it is therefore important to designate a single coordinating body which will, among other things, ensure that all eu citizens, including the under-represented, are covered by emergency and evacuation plans. the question of the financing of such protection is also of great importance in this context. it is therefore important that the report draws attention to this. i fully support the report as it will help to increase consular protection for eu citizens and to provide more effective and faster assistance in the territory of third countries.
in writing. − any citizen of the union who is present in the territory of a third country, in the absence of a representation of his country in that territory, shall be entitled to consular assistance from another member state which is represented in that third country, under the same conditions as nationals of that state. this is provided for in articles 20 (2) (c) and 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the new directive provides for the coordination of assistance, in particular by identifying 'leading states' in third countries, to improve consular protection operations in both day-to-day and emergency situations. the access to a diplomatic post defined in the proposal for a directive, which allows one to reach it and return within one day, is a good solution, especially in emergency and frequent situations (e.g. theft or loss of documents, death, arrest). the obligation of the union delegation to coordinate the provision of assistance in preparation for and in the event of a crisis situation will also place a significant burden on the 'leading country' designated in the third country or any other member state present in the area. i therefore consider these amendments to be necessary and extremely helpful for all citizens of the european union.
in writing. − a new legislative instrument may be required to facilitate the access of eu citizens to protection in third countries. i am concerned about additional costs, but i share the opinion that in crisis situations, where the union delegation has the role of coordination, it should have the necessary financial means to provide that coordination. we should not forget about the prerogatives of member states, because it is their consulates and embassies that, first and foremost, have the responsibility of protecting their citizens. nevertheless, these are not always available. there are cases when even though an eu citizen has his or her embassy or consulate in the third country, it is inaccessible. this is where the eu must play a role because, according to article 23 of the treaty of the functioning of the european union, every citizen of the union shall, in the territory of a third country in which the member states of which he is a national is not represented, be entitled to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state, on the same conditions as a national of that state.
in writing. − according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, every citizen of the union has the right to diplomatic and consular protection in a third country by any of the other member states if the country of which he is a national is not represented there. the proposed solutions are intended to facilitate the exercise of these rights by european union citizens. however, they do not take full advantage of the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty. this is particularly the case with the non-use of the role of the european union delegations. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. − most eu countries do not have, and will never have, embassies and consular posts in all countries of the world. meanwhile, citizens of these countries travel the globe for tourism or business. and sometimes there are unfortunate events that require consular assistance and protection. the proposed directive provides for such protection not only for eu citizens but also for their family members from third countries. this is particularly important as it implements one of the fundamental principles of the eu charter of fundamental rights, which prohibits discriminatory treatment. the draft legislative act also contains a rule on respect for the right of citizens to make their own decisions, which should be reflected in respecting the will of each citizen, for example, in respect of not informing the next of kin about the event or taking into account the wishes of the family as to how the body of a deceased citizen should be disposed of. i believe that the entry into force of the directive will significantly improve the consular assistance process, but it should be noted that it has not yet fully exploited the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty. in particular, the role of eu delegations, which should play a leading coordinating role and even, in strictly defined circumstances, perform consular functions, has been insufficiently emphasised.
in writing. − in view of the increasing mobility of union citizens across the globe and the legal and personal problems they face in third countries, i consider the directive on consular protection of union citizens abroad to be highly valuable and to give our citizens greater certainty as to where and to whom to turn when the institution of their country of origin is not available. i disagree with the voices that warn that such help will be costly. the draft directive is not about imposing additional tasks and costs on anyone, it is about giving both eu citizens and member states certainty and a legal framework for the procedure. it is also worth emphasising that greater coordination and a more efficient division of tasks between consulates of the member states will lead to a de facto reduction in costs. i am pleased that my opinion has been favourably received by the rapporteur and that many of the comments made by the legal affairs committee have been positively considered and incorporated into the final report. i also hope that the council will work with the necessary efficiency to ensure that our citizens can enjoy the full benefits of eu citizenship as soon as possible.
in writing. - during the inauguration of single market week, i heard that citizens are not aware of the benefits of the single market for them. this year's 20th anniversary of the single market is a great opportunity to reflect on how we can better inform citizens about these benefits and what more we need to do to unlock the full potential of the internal market, in particular to promote growth or create jobs. i am pleased that the report emphasises the need to inform europeans better about the internal market. identifying the problems that citizens and businesses encounter in the single market is certainly an important step towards creating a fully functioning single market. i supported the report because i believe that identifying these obstacles and the concerns of europeans is the key to adopting the appropriate legislation that will effectively address these identified problems. of course, it is not enough to create legislation, because it is also necessary for member states to implement it. only then can it work and bring tangible benefits to citizens. i also welcome the fact that the report calls for the monitoring of these identified concerns and problems of citizens and businesses in the internal market in the future, with a view to updating them. it is the citizens who remain at the heart of the eu, and i am pleased that this report is another expression of this.
in writing. − since 1992, the single market has been strengthening the ties between citizens and member states. its essence is the embodiment of an area without internal borders where people, goods, services and capital can move freely. many citizens of the eu, including many citizens of poland, have benefited from these freedoms. unfortunately, many individuals feel that there is a lack of information, and frequently people do not know – or do not sufficiently understand – their rights. they do not know how to obtain the required answers or assistance. this is something that the eu must try to fix. i believe that involving local and regional authorities in the process of informing citizens about their rights within the single market would be a good start. i completely agree that eu action is necessary and should be targeted and focused on the day-to-day problems faced by citizens. in addition, we have to review of all regulations which negatively impact smes, because they are the backbone of our economy.
in writing. − looking further into the subject, it is gratifying to note that the number of committees of inquiry has given it a special status. each of them has analysed in depth the risks that may accompany the emergence of a renewed single market. the subject is so vast that it is difficult to give any particular theme a special ring. a very wide range of issues, from vehicle registration to the needs of disabled people, shows the need for continuous revision of laws and regulations. there are three areas of concern for citizens regarding the functioning of the single market: lack of information, application gaps and legal gaps. sharing those concerns, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the main objective of the creation of the european single market was to strengthen the links between citizens and eu member states by creating a borderless area of free movement for people, goods, services and capital. today, after 20 years of the single market, we are seeing, in addition to the many important benefits it has brought, a certain disparity in the treatment of citizens and businesses, which is to some extent the cause of many of their concerns. these are mainly issues related to the exercise of rights in the field of professional qualifications, the transfer of pension and social security entitlements, as well as fiscal obstacles. the commission's efforts to stimulate growth and to strengthen confidence and competitiveness in the single market are commendable. however, much remains to be done, particularly in terms of adapting the eu legal framework to the existing economic and social conditions, the expectations of citizens and businesses, the full harmonisation of community law with member states' legislation and the need to inform citizens more fully about their rights. to this end, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between parliament, the council, the commission and the member states. this seems to be the only way to remove the obstacles to innovation, growth, competitiveness, job creation and the confidence of european citizens in the single market in the midst of the economic, financial and social crisis in europe.
in writing. - having considered all aspects of the case and the opinions of the committee, i have decided to be neutral in this vote. the candidate's qualifications make it clear that he or she is qualified to be a member of the executive board of the ecb. however, having heard the opinion of the committee, which stresses the importance of promoting gender diversity in management bodies, and having in mind the european council's adoption of the gender pact 2011-2020 a year ago, i have decided as above.
in writing. − the international trade commission (inta), after examining the case of brosmann v council, in which the european court of justice (ecj) delivered a precedent-setting judgment on 2 february, has rightly decided to adopt the commission proposal amending the basis of the anti-dumping regulation (ec) no 1225/2009. the case was urgent because, following the ets ruling, that regulation had become invalid for the purposes of applying it to the examination of applications for market economy treatment under article 2 (7) (c). the ets judgment has shown that there is a need to provide that a decision to limit the investigation to a reasonable number of producers by means of a sample pursuant to article 17 of the regulation also applies to parties under investigation for the purpose of granting met pursuant to article 2 (7) (b) and (c). i also agree with my colleagues from inta that there is a need to introduce legal certainty and to align the regulation with the court's guidelines, as well as to add an amendment specifying the time of investigation in dumping cases, which must be more realistic. i therefore support the proposal to introduce a normal investigation period of 7 months with the possibility of extending it by another month in valid documented cases.
in writing. - i was strongly in favour of amending the regulation on the protection of the market against dumped prices. the threat posed by these practices could damage the economic relations between the cooperating countries. the regulation of anti-dumping duties and the use of the sampling technique will curb the incentives of dishonest producers. in the interests of good governance, these changes should be introduced as soon as possible (simplified procedure).
in writing. - i believe that the eu's priority is to deepen economic and trade relations with japan in all areas. today's data leaves much to be desired: the total volume of eu-japan bilateral trade in goods in 2011 was just eur 116.4 billion, compared with eur 444.7 billion in eu-us trade, eur 428.3 billion in eu-china trade and eur 306.6 billion in eu-russia trade. i am convinced that an eu-japan free trade agreement could benefit both economies. we would also like our partners in japan to effectively remove non-tariff barriers in order to remove a significant proportion of the barriers that impede trade between the eu and japan. i am referring to non-tariff barriers to trade in the automotive sector, such as zoning regulations and other anti-competitive restrictions and practices on electric and hybrid vehicles.
in writing. − following a resolution adopted by the ep in june, the inta committee adopted a resolution to contribute to the debate before the council authorises the mandate and launches negotiations with japan on a bilateral free trade agreement (fta). the report supports the launch of the eu-japan fta negotiations under a strict mandate. the fta should be comprehensive and ambitious and it should cover goods, services, investment, iprs and public procurement. special attention should be paid to the removal of ntbs. in this context, i fully support the further advances towards a reasonable eu-japan trade agreement.
in writing. − the european union's 2011 event was undoubtedly the launch of the parallel negotiation process for a binding agreement on global political cooperation, in particular on a free trade agreement, between the community countries and japan. the european union is japan's third largest trading partner after china and the us, while japan is the eu's sixth largest trading partner. the value of bilateral trade in the first 10 months of 2011 was approximately usd 145,2 billion. the eu is also the second largest investor in japan ($175 billion), while japan is the third largest investor in the eu ($75 billion). there are some 3300 japanese-owned companies in the eu, employing some 400 000 people. in view of the above, i am convinced that the potential for trade and investment cooperation between japan and the eu remains untapped, especially since trade between the two markets was supposed to be a stimulus to economic growth, not the other way around. attention should therefore be given both to factors that may currently hamper trade and economic cooperation between the two countries and to those that may stimulate it.
in writing. − given that the eu and japan together generate more than one third of global gdp, and yet bilateral trade is only eur 116 billion, negotiations on free trade and bilateral agreements should be undertaken with determination. following the experience of the eu-south korea free trade agreement, trade with japan should be significantly increased. in the broader context of globalisation, it is also important to have japan as a political ally. the eu's overarching objective is to deepen economic and trade relations with the world's major economies, such as japan, in order to maximise the potential for job creation. that's why i voted to negotiate with japan.
in writing. the european union remains one of the main drivers of global development. by pursuing its interests and interconnections across all continents, it should show a balanced approach to individual issues. the basis is therefore the development and monitoring of appropriate programmes between the institutions and the member states covering specific areas such as trade, security or migration policy. particular attention should be paid to economic partnership agreements and free trade agreements promoting and supporting development in acp countries. they are based on mutual economic benefits. of course, strategies for agricultural and food policy, energy and human rights are also important. unfortunately, this resolution also contains references to reproductive rights and, in a way that raises doubts in my mind, it deals with the question of the equal status of women and men in society, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted against this report. article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that poverty reduction and, in the longer term, eradication is the main objective of eu development policy. i would like to draw attention to one very important point: at present, only about eur 418 million is allocated to direct action for food, i.e. about 3.4% of the commission's total development aid budget of eur 12 billion per year. i think that's a small amount, considering that about one-third of preschool-age children in the world are now underweight or obese. malnutrition kills about 2.6 million children every year, and if no action is taken, nearly half a billion children will be exposed to the lasting effects of malnutrition in the next 15 years.
in writing. − when i voted for the eu's 2011 report on cohesion policy for development, i was confident that the work done on this issue would bring very rapid positive results. the development and implementation of clear human rights-based policies offers hope for equal and sustainable partnerships with developing countries. the programme is building a trade and investment policy and a responsible agricultural and fisheries policy, which are of great importance to my country, although the use of funds in this sector still needs to be carefully and systematically monitored. i am also pleased to see that the subject of security and related migration is being taken up. the vision of a long-term eu education strategy will help to shape citizens' attitudes to global issues.
colleagues, before opening the afternoon debate i would like to cordially welcome commissioner barnier. i would also like to congratulate him on the wonderful result he obtained last week in bucharest running for the vice-presidency of the european people’s party. congratulations. the next item is the joint debate on - the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairson, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on markets in financial instruments repealing directive 2004/39/ec of the european parliament and of the council (recast) (com(2011)0656 - c7-0382/2011- 2011/0298(cod)) (a7-0306/2012), and- the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairson, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on markets in financial instruments and amending regulation [emir] on otc derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (com(2011)0652 - c7-0359/2011- 2011/0296(cod)) (a7-0303/2012).
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. − mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, so these points are also included in the report. if we want to strengthen the european semester we have to endow it with more democratic legitimacy. we need to clear up the remaining legal ambiguities which may give rise to institutional conflicts, increased complexity of the system, or duplication of competences. the european parliament, which is the only supranational institution with electoral legitimacy, should be involved in economic policy coordination. we should be able to evaluate the whole process, be involved in the follow-up to the annual growth survey and the country-specific recommendations. but we should not do it alone. we must involve the national parliaments and cooperation between the european parliament and national parliaments must be strengthened. however, we do not need to reinvent the wheel and can do this on the basis of the lisbon treaty and protocol no 1 on the role of national parliaments. incidentally, the proposal from the polish government that addresses the question goes in the right direction. if we are to succeed, we have to involve directly-elected institutions in the whole process.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the development of innovative financial instruments can undoubtedly contribute to the growth of public investment in the union, which has been declining since the mid-1990s. innovative financial instruments should pursue the policy objectives of the european union, respect the principles of sound financial management and complement traditional instruments such as grants. they should aim to facilitate the implementation of projects, have a set completion date and attract more private capital for public infrastructure projects where they can guarantee the optimal use of financial resources. a simple legislative framework that does not impose burdens on intermediaries and beneficiaries but makes these instruments attractive to both public and private investors will be important in this respect. however, there is a concern that innovative financial instruments will only be used for short-term investments designed to make a quick profit, and not for projects that provide smart, sustainable economic growth. because of the fear of too much risk and because of the lack of public funds.
ladies and gentlemen! despite the great progress made in recent years, the percentage of resolved complaints that fell under the ombudsman's remit was again relatively low in 2011. in my view, consideration should be given to a more comprehensive awareness-raising of the public, in particular in close cooperation with the national and regional ombudsmen, the parliament and the european commission on the ombudsman's responsibilities. i urge the commission to continue to ensure that the funds are used to the best possible effect and to cooperate with the other institutions of the european union. i fully support the ombudsman's view that the principles of good administration go beyond the law, requiring the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union not only to respect legal obligations but also to set themselves the goal of serving citizens and ensuring that individual citizens are treated fairly and can fully enjoy their rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. mrs oomen-ruijten was right when she said that russia is ranked 120th in the world bank's business-friendliness rankings. and we hope that russia's entry into the wto will improve that situation and make this country more business-friendly, because it's simply the russians' right. commissioner šefčovič spoke of this protectionism or protectionism that we fear. and we have a few other concerns, but i think that's why we're cooperating, why we've facilitated russia's entry into the wto, to fight this protectionism and to give russia a chance to have a liberal, free-market economy. i am also glad that mr cutaşa has said that we do not want to continue to discriminate in the supply of energy and in the diversification of energy supplies, but i am also glad that both mr cutaş and the green representative have mentioned the issue of human rights, because we are indeed expecting - and i see a representative of the russian federation in the gallery. i would ask you to tell your people that we are happy to have you in the wto, we wish you to be the richest society possible, enjoying all the values enjoyed by the societies and peoples of the european union. we wish you to be rich, democratic and free. please convey this to the authorities of your country, but please also convey this to the citizens of the russian federation.
the question was asked by raising the 'blue card' addressed to mr maštálk. - i'm not sure. your speech was in the tone of saying that the wto and we as the european union should change because of russia's accession to the wto. i think it's russia that should be subject to the rules that govern this organization. i don't know if i've understood you correctly, but i'd like to ask for clarification on this matter.
madam president! after 18 years of negotiations, russia has joined the world trade organization. from the perspective of the union countries, this is an opportunity to develop more credible trade relations with this partner. this is particularly true of poland, which is often treated as an instrument by the russian authorities, especially in the field of trade. we all remember the not so long ago problems with the export of polish meat products, fruits and vegetables to russia. for now, the issues will be resolved in an international forum. the union remains the largest foreign investor in russia, and the establishment of effective reciprocal trade policy mechanisms is therefore essential to protect the interests of european businesses. russia's accession to the wto also means a number of facilitations in access to the russian market, such as lower tariffs. the control and enforcement elements will be strengthened. i hope that moscow will now show more responsibility and predictability in international economic relations, and that polish-russian trade will be conducted on sound principles.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the russian president and government have been frequently critical of our eu's third energy package, and gazprom has refused to abide by its rules. they say - and they've started using this argument - that the energy package violates the rules of the world trade organization, that it's a drag on free trade. this is nonsense, as all the expert reports prove. the third energy package is in line with international law. it gives the same rights and obligations to european and russian companies. gazprom uses the provisions of this third energy package, despite criticising it. the monopolist increased its trading activities in the union and bought a number of european energy companies. it also benefits from wto rules. at the same time, european companies cannot expect equal treatment in russia, which was mentioned during our discussion. several of these companies, because of corruption and the lack of rule of law in russia, were actually thrown out of the country. bp is an example. russia also frequently fails to comply with the world trade organization's rules on equal treatment of operators. i think that we must at this moment, when negotiating a new partnership and cooperation agreement, attach great importance to this and consider compliance with article 102, which russia is now accused of violating, as a necessary condition for the signing of a new partnership agreement. the eu must use all its powers and those it has in the wto to force moscow to act in accordance with the law. this is also the case with the antitrust investigation and prosecution being conducted by the european union.
i am not going to say that the commissioner has not been consulted. it's generally good news that after all these years of negotiations, russia is joining the world trade organization. good news for russia, good news for the european union, and i think good news for russia's neighbors, for those countries that are not in the european union but are in the eastern partnership, for those countries that were once part of the soviet union, and today they just want to have normal relations with the russian federation both politically and commercially. i think it's worth looking at at least a few of these countries. the first issue that comes up is the georgia issue. georgia after the conflict in 2008, after very tense relations, gave many expressions of goodwill. the georgian president has lifted visas for russian citizens, opened the georgian market to russian goods. i think it's high time that we say that we expect - we as the international community, we as the european union, we as the european parliament - a similar position from russia when it comes to russia-georgia trade relations. at present, especially as russia is already a wto member, there is no justification for a further ban on the import of food products from georgia into the russian market. we need to make it clear to our partners in russia that we expect this. i expect the european commission representatives to make it very clear in their talks with russia that these wto rules apply to all parties and also apply to russia in its relations with its neighbours, such as georgia, ukraine and moldova. i hope that this relationship will be built on the basis of wto rules.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we are discussing the economic relations between the european union and russia on the 9th anniversary of the imprisonment of mikhail khodorovsky. it's a symbol of the effectiveness of our policy towards russia. we remember that it was based on the idea of opening up the european union's economy to russia, of strengthening relations, of allowing russian investment in the european union, especially in the energy sector, which is so important for the russian budget. in return, we were to bring about the modernization and democratization of russia. let's take stock of that period. russia is a more authoritarian country today than it was when it started negotiating its wto membership. russia is now much more dependent on exports of natural resources, mainly energy, than it was a dozen years ago. our policy has failed, it has failed. this is the moment when we should be clear about this. it is good that russia has joined the wto, but today russia expects further concessions from the european union from the new agreement on cooperation and partnership with the european union, which would cover the costs of joining the world trade organization. this shows the attitude of the russian authorities, who actually expect the rest of the world to conform to the drastic standards that the russian federation is governed by rather than russia conforming to the standards of relations with the european union or wto membership. we have to remember that. we have a lot of common interests that we should be working on, but where our interests conflict, we need to learn from that and be more assertive with the russian side.
in writing. the wto is an organisation of big international business, bringing together numerous countries around a basic idea - the principle of free, unfettered trade in goods, services and intellectual property. in this trade, it is not state protectionism that wins, but competition as the engine of global civilization. but it also creates global challenges: the delocalization of capital, local structural unemployment, and even crises like the one we are seeing in europe. russia is a major economic player on a global scale, which, like china, can influence the european debt crisis, which is the result of free but unsustainable trade. global trade balance balancing mechanisms are therefore urgently needed. as a member of the wto, russia will become a more predictable partner for the eu, which will reduce trade risks with russia and reduce the trade deficit of some eu countries. russia is a major supplier of mineral resources, including gas and oil, and natural resources, such as grain and timber. it is also a huge market for investment and consumer goods. russia's accession to the wto will undoubtedly be beneficial for both parties: the eu and russia. this may be accompanied, as is usual in such cases, by a transitional period of increased unemployment in the country and migration movements, or even dumping. it should also be noted that russia is forming an independent customs union with three non-wto countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! in a recent interview with the british newspaper independent, president alexander lukashenko focused on criticizing western democracies, accusing us of acting as a rogue under the guise of promoting democracy. according to president lukashenko, the west is to demand that belarus change the current government and allow the opposition into it. the president is wrong. we're not concerned with who's gonna rule belarus. our parliament is pluralistic and we have very different views on which party is the best solution for belarus. we would only like to see those who have been elected by the people of belarus in free and fair elections rule. this is not a game of appearances, but our deep conviction that fundamental rights are universal and derive from the inalienable dignity of every human being. our objective is therefore to ensure that belarusians enjoy the same rights and freedoms as the vast majority of europeans.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: you know i respect you and your work. the work on this resolution under mr rouck's leadership was also good, and i thank him for that. i regret to inform you that on the one hand we are doing things like this here, and on the other hand my country is contributing to the worsening situation of the belarusians. ten days ago, it was revealed that the polish ministry of foreign affairs had sent 30 tax returns to belarusian oppositionists, demanding money for the allowances they had received in poland, which made it easier for the belarusian authorities to identify these oppositionists. just the day before yesterday, the ministry of foreign affairs' website revealed all the subsidies that the polish side gives to the belarusian opposition. and to make matters worse, the press was pressured not to publish the scandal. i would like to make a huge apology to all belarusians and assure that europeans and all poles do not think as some officials of the ministry of foreign affairs think. i consider this behaviour to be scandalous, i would like to apologise, inform you and the house, but above all apologise to the belarusians for what the polish side has done. this is not what polish politics should be and this is not what european politics should be. we should all support the belarusians, not snitch on them and denounce them to the belarusian services. the speaker agreed to answer the question raised by the raising of the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
the question asked by raising the blue card addressed to mark migalski. i understand that the mp whose party is not above 1% in the polls has already started the election campaign. i would like to ask the honourable member if you have taken note of the fact that yesterday minister sikorski publicly apologised to the belarusian public for the mistake of an official and that the official was dismissed on disciplinary grounds? i would also like to ask whether you do not think that this type of 'private excursion' on the polish political scene and poland is appropriate in the european parliament? and how will that help the belarusians?
answer the question by raising the blue card. i have the impression that the ambassador made a personal trip. and i'm not gonna take credit for that. i'm gonna focus on the case. yes, i think this is a good place to talk about how member states are fulfilling their obligations. i think what was done in poland is shameful, unacceptable and brings us shame. and i think that what is hurting poland and hurting the belarusians is not my statements in this house, but the behaviour of the ministry of foreign affairs, which is headed by your colleague and in which you have a huge influence on how things look. i'm glad the official who was responsible for releasing these pages has been fired. the only question is, why wasn't he released sooner? turns out, for your information, this man was previously fired without success. either that shows the complete stupidity of the polish ministry, or something a little worse. mr. postle, what are you doing? i hope that with you, with radosław sikorski and with everyone in this house, we will try to ensure that such situations do not happen and do not happen again, because it does not ridicule a particular person, not a particular party, but all of us.
the elections have been assessed in a clear way, nothing can be done about it anymore, but we cannot forget that belarus is still our partner in the eastern partnership. all our efforts should be directed to the belarusian society, first of all to those who may have any external contact and thus to those who are students, who work in companies, who conduct their business activities, and especially as far as private entrepreneurs are concerned, to those who are engaged in independent journalism, to those who will be the future of belarus. and i think that different institutions and different countries could do a lot to help shape this new civil society. the implementation of these activities is crucial to ensure that, when the conditions for such a change are in place, belarus is socially prepared for it. i think that some of the instruments that we are building here in parliament and in the european union can also help. i would like to welcome the efforts of the european commission, particularly in the european dialogue for modernisation. i believe that many of the diagnoses made in this report are valid, and i would therefore like to call for the early implementation of instruments that can help to build what will be a certain platform for building the future of relations between the european union and belarus.
madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to thank the commissioner very much for his speech, because what the commissioner has said, what the european commission is doing or is planning to do, is what we have all been talking about. the case is pretty straightforward. we just have to be consistent, consistent first of all in sanctions against those who violate human rights. we know who he is, and that list is growing. and second, we must be consistent in our support for civil society and free media. i wanted to draw your attention to two specific things. firstly, there is a project called bielsat television, which has been consistently supported by poland and several other countries, but it is time for european funds to be found for this initiative. and the second thing is, we can't leave people who are suffering without help. i literally met a few days ago with alexei michalewicz, a former presidential candidate who was tortured, who was granted asylum in the czech republic. but his family, his wife and children stayed in belarus, and to put it quite simply they have nothing to live on. and that's something we should be doing.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i thank you very much for these words and for your personal commitment to georgian affairs. we spoke just before the elections and i think we will continue this dialogue because georgia needs this dialogue. of course, congratulations go to the winners, but congratulations go first of all to the georgian society, which has passed the democratic test. despite the various tensions, this election was the best election in that part of europe ever - one could say. i think we should thank president saakashvili for recognizing the defeat of his party and handing over power peacefully. it's never happened like this in the caucasus. it remains to be hoped that the new government will continue its current foreign policy and the pro-western direction georgia has taken in recent years. we must of course ensure that everything is in order, that democracy functions normally, that the president, the government, the parliamentary majority and the opposition work together in harmony for the good of georgia.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the georgian parliamentary elections were conducted in a peaceful manner, with full respect for democratic principles and electoral rights. the european parliament's observer mission and the national parliaments, including the polish one, have undoubtedly contributed to this. those directly involved deserve our appreciation and thanks. georgia is one of the founding members of the eastern partnership, which has been committed to broad cooperation with europe from the outset. he is therefore happy to assure the victorious coalition that tbilisi's goal remains integration with the european union and nato, and that the country will never return to the russian orbit or join the post-soviet commonwealth of independent states. the council of ministers of the republic of georgia has adopted a resolution on the situation in georgia. our diplomatic offensive on this matter is imperative. the continuous strengthening of relations with georgia must be one of the objectives of european foreign policy. the new government of bidzina ivanishvili has proposed to continue economic reforms and fight corruption, and therefore brussels should step up its activities to support and promote development. i look forward to maintaining the excellent cooperation with tbilisi and to implementing the actions presented by the new prime minister.
the question was asked by raising the 'blue card' addressed to jaromir kohlíček. thank you very much for accepting the question raised by the 'blue card'. your political group is traditionally pro-russian, but you have the right to be. everyone has the right to their sympathies. but you said that our resolution had anti-russian overtones. would you be so kind as to tell me what those accents are? i think it's not that we want to see the completion of sarkozy's six-point plan to withdraw russian troops from georgia. so would you be able to tell us what anti-russian elements are in that resolution?
i'm not going to let you do this. the georgians did their job. they did a good job. we can of course have some doubts about the financing of the election campaign, about the course of the election campaign. not everyone is thrilled about all this, but they did their job: they held a democratic election. in the post-soviet area, there is already some victory, some success. and if we have any concerns about them, we should first of all direct those concerns to ourselves, because now is the time for us. it is up to us as the european community to make the scenario of georgia's integration with western structures plausible. we should be the ones to demand what we have committed ourselves to, namely the withdrawal of russian troops from georgia, because we are the ones responsible for the implementation of this six-point plan. so the georgians have done their job, now it's our turn. i'm not going to let you do this. i look forward to working closely with you, and i'm convinced that if we are willing, we will understand that it is our moral and political duty now. i encourage you to work hard, i know you can work hard.
poland has never had colonies, so i won't suspect imperialism for sure. i wanted to say three things very briefly. first of all, mp ojuland is absolutely right, oil should not be the message for us on human rights, and of course my esteemed friend mp deva is right that other arab countries are worse off. but that's no reason not to talk about the examples in the united arab emirates. secondly, mp korhola is right when she says that it is now winter when it comes to human rights - only that it could have been predicted earlier. there were those who warned - myself included - that the arab spring would lead to free elections perhaps only once: when islamic fundamentalists came to power. and finally, the european parliament is the place where human rights are talked about more than the european commission and the council, because those bodies pay more attention to the interests and to oil.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is not an incident, this is not an exceptional case, although it is extremely dramatic and painful. this is a thing that's actually happening every moment, not just in this country, but in this region. and just to be clear, unfortunately -- let's say what we don't say out loud -- a large part of this society accepts the taliban and their practices. this is a real drama, because it could affect the future of this country and this region. i would also like to ask our non-european allies who are quietly negotiating with the taliban whether they are doing the right thing by putting human rights aside for cold political gain.
on behalf of the s&d group. on october 9, a 14-year-old girl was shot dead in pakistan for promoting the right of girls to education. the pakistani taliban branch has claimed responsibility for the attack and said in a statement that it will kill anyone who campaigns against islamic law. this tragic incident has made the dead girl malala a national symbol of resistance against the taliban regime. last year alone, there were 152 attacks by armed groups on school buildings in the area. girls are not only victims of violence, they are also forced into marriages, trafficked as commodities. although the pakistani government has recently introduced a series of laws to protect them, it will take many years for them to be properly implemented. in this context, i welcome the union's readiness to support pakistan in its efforts to respect international standards for the safety of its citizens, to eliminate all forms of violence and discrimination, and to ensure equal rights and civil liberties for all groups in society.
in writing – the miraculous recovery of malala yousafzai is yet another testament to the courage of this remarkable young woman. in pakistan there are people who want to use guns to prevent girls from being educated. when the taliban took control of the swat area of pakistan they banned girls from going to school. malala’s diary for the bbc following the ban was the first step in her campaign for female education. she risked her life by standing up to those who systematically victimise women and practise gender apartheid. even after the pakistani military had pushed the taliban out of the cities in swat, malala’s life was in danger. ultimately she paid the price for her courage when she was shot by the taliban earlier this month. as malala lies in hospital in the uk, i pray for her full recovery. i am proud to have voted for this resolution and i hope that women from all over pakistan, all over the world, will be inspired by malala’s bravery.
in writing. i think we can all agree that the malala yousafi case cannot go unchallenged in the european parliament. for the past few days, we've been tracking the health of 14-year-old malala, who, for her courage in pursuing her dreams and those of thousands of other pakistani girls like her, has been the target of a brutal attack. pakistan is one of the three most dangerous countries in the world for women. there are several hundred honor killings and acid attacks on women every year. reporting the case to the police and taking it to court borders on heroism. equal access to education remains a privilege for men, which is also unquestioned in europe. pakistan ranks second in the world for the number of girls without primary education. malala paid almost the ultimate price for her determination and speaking out for almost every girl to decide her own future. it should be remembered that the attack on it is directed at all defenders of human rights and fundamental values. we have to respond. the european union has set itself the objective of building relations with third countries on the basis of the principles of democracy, respect for the rule of law and civil liberties. in this context, i fully support the text of the resolution and call on the european commission to regularly monitor the work of the pakistani government on the implementation of the laws on discrimination and violence against women.
mr. chairman, please! in 1991, cambodia signed the paris agreement, committing itself to respect and protect human rights. 21 years later, restrictions on freedom of speech, attacks on independent media and violence against human rights defenders are commonplace in cambodia. an example is the arrest of 13 women who in may this year peacefully protested their eviction from the new development project. the owner of a radio station and the head of the cambodian democratic association were also jailed for 20 years for allegedly exposing repression against other opposition activists. the problem of the cambodian authorities' blatant violation of human rights also affects women, children and minority communities. in this context, the government of cambodia should be reminded of its obligation to comply with its international obligations and to implement the recommendations of the un special envoy on political reform, including the provision of free and fair elections in which all citizens will participate in the exercise of their democratic freedoms.
mr. chairman, please! the rule of president alexander lukashenko is a denial of all standards of freedom and democracy. for 17 years, no election in belarus has been held without violations of the law. also during the september elections, a number of illegal instruments were used, such as discrimination against the opposition and limiting its participation in committees, censorship of election materials and numerous falsifications, including over-attendance of official figures. in view of the above, the elected parliament still does not represent the will of the public, and therefore belarus cannot be considered a reliable partner of europe. i therefore call on the authorities in minsk to hold a second free and fair parliamentary election. i call on president lukashenko to stop the crackdown on the opposition, release political prisoners and journalists, guarantee the unfettered activities of ngos and the free flow of information. to this end, we must also support the activities of belarusian civil society in the area of freedom, including through tools such as bielsat tv.
in writing. − in the case of the negotiation of a contract which has been in progress for many years and has a positive opinion, the decision to vote in favour of the project required an analysis of the points containing significant adjustments. the analysis of the functioning of the eu-us joint agreement since 2000 has revealed the elements that were not working and replaced them with the correct provisions, so the only issue that raised doubts in my mind was the decision to abandon the principle of mutual recognition. however, the information that the fact that two separate registration systems (eu and us) will not have negative effects, but will significantly simplify registration and reduce costs for the manufacturer, convinced me to support the draft agreement in question.
in writing. − the objective of the financial instruments was to increase investment in the european union in the event of market failures. therefore, when the budget was drawn up, financial instruments accounted for 1,3% of the union budget. the use of financial instruments is governed by strictly defined legal and budgetary rules, which in fact contribute to the sound and efficient financial management of public funds. however, my decision to abstain was due to the fact that the financial instruments in the field of cohesion policy had had different results in different member states, which in turn resulted from the poor quality of the legislative framework and caused delays in the implementation process. in addition, the financial instruments have not always been developed in a coordinated way, which has led to some problems of interconnection.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has exposed shortcomings in the transparency of financial markets. they can have negative socioeconomic effects. the financial system should therefore be strengthened by increasing the transparency of financial markets. to that end, a new framework should be established which establishes uniform requirements for the transparency of transactions in markets for financial instruments. a single set of rules is needed to apply to all financial institutions in the single market. that is why i voted to pass the draft legislative resolution.
in writing. - i voted against the proposed draft resolution mainly because the european semester for the coordination of economic policies lacks sufficient democratic legitimacy. in many member states, both national parliaments and the social and economic partners have not been involved in this process. moreover, the recommendations made to the member states were of a universal nature. no effort has been made to tailor such recommendations to the specific needs of the country concerned.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the resolution on eu-russia trade relations following russia’s accession to the wto (2012/2695(rsp)). russia has long been one of the eu’s strongest trade partners and i feel that this relationship can only be improved with their accession to the wto which came into effect last year. russia has primarily exported energy and mineral fuels to the eu; the eu has covered a vast range of areas in which it has exported to russia, such as nearly all categories of machinery and transport equipment, manufactured goods, food, and live animals. while i certainly agree with the authors of the resolution that we must take care to not allow russia to dictate and in some cases prevent good trade practices, i feel strongly that the positives will far outweigh the negatives in our future trade relationship. therefore, we must take and allow every opportunity for negotiations with regard to future trade relations with russia and take advantage of what is sure to be a great relationship for a very long time.
in writing. − after 18 years, russia has concluded multilateral negotiations on wto accession and has become an official member of the organisation. this is a significant event as the european union is a strategic trading partner of russia, mainly as an export market and investment partner. russia and the european union are also interdependent trading partners in raw materials and primary energy sources. russia's accession to the wto is a promising step towards improving bilateral relations with the european union. that's why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. − the elections in belarus under the lukashenko regime have been, and continue to be, a complete farce. they do not come close to democratic standards. the old soviet-style tactics of this dictatorship are best exemplified by the fact that a number of students and employees of state-owned companies were forced to take part in early voting which started five days before election day. it is evident that these individuals would be fired from their work or thrown out of their university if they refused to take part in this charade. it is unfortunate that belarus cannot take part in the euronest pa, but, bearing in mind the complete lack of transparency of these elections, we would have to have a total disregard for our values to allow the undemocratically-elected parliamentarians of belarus to sit at the euronest table.
in writing. - i supported the motion for a resolution because once again the parliamentary elections in belarus were conducted without respecting the basic standards established by the organisation for security and cooperation in europe. none of the candidates of the democratic opposition were elected to the national parliament. the belarusian authorities have ignored the repeated calls of the international community and decided to further distance themselves from democracy and deepen the isolation of belarus. we are ready for a european neighbourhood policy, but only if the belarusian government shows respect for democratic values.
in writing. - i voted in favour because one of the objectives of the european union's foreign policy is to promote relations with georgia. the new government should be expected to continue this cooperation. the support for georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity that the european union has provided to date should also be continued. it is essential that the new government continues the fight against corruption and implements the political reforms initiated by the current government. we should support georgia in its next steps towards strengthening democracy.
in writing. - for a long time, under the leadership of president saakashvili, georgia has been on the path to democracy. the last election only confirmed that path. the opposition's victory was a significant signal to confirm this thesis. unfortunately, it seems that with him, the demons last seen in georgia before the rose revolution have returned. we cannot have a situation where the opposition that won the election is doing everything it can to increase its victory through pressure and attempts to rig the election. the new prime minister not only speaks unflatteringly about the president's pro-european policies, but also turns towards russia instead of strengthening the alliance with europe. i hope he will reconsider his actions and adjust his foreign policy.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you get away with this. from the very beginning of the work on the report on the revision of the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil matters, i was aware of the complexity of the matter before us. the desire to improve and facilitate the application of a regulation that is generally regarded as a very well-functioning instrument has proved difficult. we have had a lot of issues in the last couple of months, but i think we have been able to work out some satisfactory compromises on all of them, both the more controversial and the less controversial. we have had many meetings in informal trilateral talks during the polish, danish and cypriot presidencies, which have brought us closer together and have allowed us to understand each other's positions to such an extent that today we can speak of an agreement at first reading. the most important issue for which we opened the work on this regulation was the abolition of the exequatur procedure. during the polish presidency we reached a common approach which was overwhelmingly in line with the amendments i proposed in my report. the exequatur procedure will therefore be abolished, which will facilitate the circulation of judgments in civil and commercial matters, reducing the time taken to enforce judgments and significantly reducing the costs of the procedure. at the same time, any safeguards for the defendant which may become grounds for suspension or refusal of enforcement, including the public policy clause, shall be maintained. this change was made possible by a greater level of trust in the legal systems of the member states and today we can consider the abolition of the exequatur procedure as a joint success. the extension of the scope of the regulation to so-called third countries and the consequent 'rebound' has caused a lot of excitement in both the council and the parliament. from the beginning i was very sceptical about this issue - not the idea itself - but rather the rash decision to introduce such broadly defined changes to the brussels i regulation. the compromise reached at our meetings is that the extension of jurisdiction will be introduced for consumer contracts and individual employment contracts. this means that the consumer will be able to sue the seller even outside the union in his member state, including the one in which he lives. this approach has proved very attractive to both proponents and those who consider full harmonisation of jurisdictional rules to be premature. this is undoubtedly a step in the right direction towards widening access to justice for the so-called weaker party. at the same time, the inclusion of the review clause allows us to look in the coming months and years at the state of play of the judgments in these cases and the possible change in the harmonisation of the rules of jurisdiction. the arbitration agreements have been a complicated issue. after much discussion, parliament agreed that the best solution was to leave the status quo in this area, i.e. to leave arbitration entirely outside the scope of the regulation. the european parliament's position was reflected in the final compromise, because in the articles of the regulation we leave the status quo while explaining the application of this principle, in great detail, in the points of the preamble. another issue which i would like to stress is the importance of delegated acts for parliament. they were included in the commission's original proposal but were removed during the negotiations in the council. however, after swift intervention by parliament, the danish presidency restored the delegated acts to our full satisfaction. the question of the agreements on the choice of court also required a lot of thought, and i therefore turn with great appreciation to the cypriot presidency, which has presented specific points of the case in the preamble. i think they are detailed enough to help with any interpretation of the provisions in the articles. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank very warmly all the parties to this legislative process: the commission (and commissioner reding in particular), the polish, danish and cypriot presidencies, my colleagues and fellow shadow rapporteurs from the committee on legal affairs, and all those who were involved in the successful conclusion of the work.
the answer to the question posed by raising the 'blue card' is 'mr president! my dear colleague pasha! do you not think that it would be much more sensible, practical and effective if your political group had been involved in the substantive work during the whole period we worked on the brussels 1 regulation, rather than making a political statement in plenary that has little to do with our work?
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank my colleagues for the discussion and for the presentation of their views. i fully agree with the conclusion that commissioner reding has just made. i would add that when we started work on this document two years ago, each institution - the commission, parliament and the council - had its own ambitions and ideas of how this work should proceed and how it should end. i can say this today: i am absolutely certain that we have not broken a well-functioning legal instrument, but we have improved it. i am absolutely certain that the european legal culture, its european area has been strengthened, that citizens, consumers, workers, managers and business owners are given an instrument that will help them to function better in the common, single market. i am deeply convinced that parliament will adopt this document and i look forward to its adoption by the european council so that we can all say that we have done a good job. thank you all so much again.
the situation we find ourselves in is, one might say, curious. we have a matter of extraordinary importance to attend to, a good matter, and an interagency dispute is blocking it. this is unthinkable, i would say it's outrageous. i am convinced that our discussion today is a huge and heartfelt appeal to the european council to stop fooling around and to take seriously and seriously the situation of many children and many parents. if i were a conspiracy theorist, i would say that the council is deliberately blocking the resolution of this important issue by taking advantage of the dispute with parliament. but worse than that, the council, driven by ambition, wants to prove itself right. the european parliament's legal services have made it clear that the european union has exclusive competence in matters of international child abduction. the council, together with the european parliament, should therefore, in accordance with the treaties, deal with this matter swiftly, in accordance with the consent procedure. we know very well how difficult it is to persuade some countries to join the hague convention, because it is not easy for them. it's not a process that happens very quickly, but it's incredibly important and essential. so i ask all those who have influence not to block the settlement of this very important matter, but to allow the countries that have decided to join this international agreement that protects children and their rights to join the agreement that allows for a greater legal order in this difficult and complicated situation of international child abduction. i have every confidence that we will reach an agreement quickly, because otherwise we will all be laughed at. we don't want that. as the european parliament, we call on the council to put an end to this dispute and to proceed with a meaningful and substantive solution to this problem in accordance with the treaties. thank you very much. thank you.
on 17 november 2012, the xi congress of the polish people's party was held. the psl is a party with almost 120 years of tradition. it was created on the basis of opposition and struggle for freedom and state independence, for improving the living conditions of many poles, mainly the polish provinces and villages. the polish people's movement has always put the human being at the centre of its interests, his living conditions, access to work and education, equal rights for everyone. our people's movement has always participated in the struggle and activities for the regaining of independence by the polish state. poland regained its independence in 1918. in 1920, when the red army invaded poland with the intention of taking over not only poland but europe, poland stopped the dangerous march of the soviet army to the west. the prime minister of the government at that time was the prominent popular activist wincenty witos, who was a three-time prime minister of the polish government. during the second world war, the people's movement created its army in the form of the peasant battalions, which numbered more than 160,000 soldiers. when poland, as a result of the yalta agreements, found itself in the eastern bloc after the second world war, the people's party, led by its chairman stanisław mikołajczyk, stood at the forefront of the struggle for freedom and democracy. we are now actively involved in the government and have been in the coalition government together with the civic platform for five years. the newly elected authorities announced the continued active participation of the psl in the work of the european people's party and the polish parliament. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. more and more eu citizens are making payments with cards, over the internet or via mobile devices, resulting in a continuous growth of the e-commerce sector. in order to promote competitiveness, it is appropriate to eliminate differences between national and cross-border payments, including the emphasis on transparency of payment costs, which are currently in many cases hidden or exaggerated. this is particularly important to avoid a situation where fraudulent practices by different operators are repeated and where a credit card transaction fee is charged multiple times when several purchases are made in one payment transaction (my inquiry of 26 october 2010 e-8649/2010), as was the case with airlines. it is also necessary to standardise and harmonise the operation of payment terminals so that they can handle all types of cards. a separate and equally important issue to be addressed is the growing confidence of payers, who need to be convinced of the security of their electronic transactions. consumers who choose non-cash means of payment should be guaranteed the protection of their personal data and the security of their banking transaction data. the development of the single european payments area (sepa) requires the continued removal of a number of barriers to the functioning of the european payments market, which were identified by the ec in its green paper.
i refer to that last speech, because you are right, indeed, when you say that in every area of life we are faced with a certain conflict between freedom and security. and we, in voting on mrs costa's report, whose work in the committee on culture i highly value, must make that choice between freedom and security, between freedom to browse the internet, between freedom to move in a digitalised world and the safety of our children. and it's not an easy choice. i understand that last voice, because it really speaks of awareness of this danger, whereas it is our duty to warn or save the children of the european union countries from the dangers that mrs costa spoke of: from sexual abuse, from being lost in an unreal world, from being addicted to this world. that is why i think this report is worth supporting.
in writing. i welcome the draft resolution on the protection of children in the digital world. it is very important that, in recognition of the many risks that children and young people face from the uncontrolled use of new technologies, mainly the internet but also computer games, we try to look at the problem in its entirety and encourage both member state governments, the european commission and internet administrators to take effective action to protect minors online. the launch of national hotlines and contact points, the so-called 'safety buttons', the launch of an information campaign for parents on the dangers of dangerous digital content for their children and the creation of a new agency for network security are certainly steps in the right direction and should be strongly supported. i therefore urge the commission to monitor the standards of protection of children against the dangers of the digital world on an ongoing basis, while encouraging member state governments to improve and enhance their legal protection tools in this area.
in writing. – as a society i feel strongly that it is our duty to protect our children and young people from harmful material that is so freely accessible on the internet. the material that i am referring to is that which was highlighted in ms. costas report referring to that of strong connotations of violence, discrimination, sexism, and racism. this type of material has long been statistically proven to have negative as well as adverse effects on children. thus, i feel that it is our responsibility to try to prevent exposure of such material to young people. it is my opinion that we cannot do this alone as legislatures but we must enlist the assistance of parents, schools and the communities in which these children live. in saying that i would like to emphasis that the internet is a viable and necessary tool in which children can learn from and explore, in fact there may very well be children watching us online as we are working now to protect them. therefore it must be said that while we are putting energy in to safeguarding the internet for children just as much energy should be put into the positive side as well.
the rapporteur. - my dear colleagues! ladies and gentlemen! i'm not going to let you do this. i am very pleased to present today the report on the social investment pact in response to the crisis, which was adopted almost unanimously by the employment committee at its meeting on 10 july. this report is part of a wider debate which has been taking place in europe for several years on the strategy for overcoming the economic and social crisis. as a result of the crisis, which continues to pose a real threat to the stability of many countries in the european union, we have been facing enormous problems in the european labour market for some time now, with an unemployment rate of over 10%, high youth unemployment and chronic unemployment among the low-skilled. this situation is exacerbated by demographic problems, a labour market-deficient education and training system and increasing pressure on the social security system. all the measures to restore the stability of public finances in the european union and the related budgetary cuts were and are necessary to ensure the stability of the european economy. without them, the impact of the crisis would undoubtedly be even more severe. however, these actions should be complemented by well-targeted social investments to prepare citizens for changing economic conditions and labour market needs. the crisis requires member states to rethink their social policies and to transform the active welfare state into an enabling state that invests in people and gives citizens the tools and incentives, rather than merely reacting to emerging harms caused by market imperfections. the budgetary policies of the member states should therefore be complemented by measures aimed, inter alia, at continuous improvement of the labour market, investment in education and training and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. social investment covers a wide range of policies and is therefore essential for ensuring the right level of employment in the future and for increasing europe's competitiveness. since they are designed to reconcile social and economic objectives, governments should not view them as an expense but, above all, as an investment that will yield real returns in the future. experience shows that attempts to coordinate the eu's approach to social investment, such as the lisbon strategy and the european employment strategy, have failed due to poor management. it is therefore necessary to ensure better monitoring of the implementation of employment and social policies in the member states of the european union. the report therefore proposes that member states should join the social investment pact, which would provide a better mechanism for managing and monitoring the implementation of the employment, social and education objectives, including those of the europe 2020 strategy. the monitoring of these policies should also be included in the 2013 european semester. in order to make these actions viable, it is also necessary that the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework includes appropriate budgetary appropriations for social investment. in presenting the report entitled 'the social investment pact in response to the crisis', i would like to make it very clear that all the recommendations contained in it are the result of a broad consensus among all political groups, and i would like to thank the rapporteurs-at-large very warmly for the constructive and very good work on the report's texts, as well as all the colleagues who tabled amendments. i would like to take this opportunity to thank in particular professor frank van der broek, whose research has inspired me to prepare this report on social investment. i would also like to call on the european commission to take up the recommendations contained in the report and to propose instruments which will allow a number of good ideas to be put into practice, enabling our european society to cope with the difficult situation we are facing today. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! the economic crisis and its negative effects on the economies of all countries force us to face new challenges. in the face of rising unemployment, especially among young people, and the increasing risk of poverty and social exclusion, it is essential to support broad social investment, including adaptation to labour market changes and the acquisition of new skills. we have discussed many times in this chamber the need to create mechanisms to promote labour mobility, the development of vocational training and the need to combat inequalities in the treatment of employees on grounds of sex. all these aspects of our earlier discussions regarding the social investment package are still relevant. moreover, they fit into it. i therefore call on the commission, as a very important element in the response to the crisis, to work with the governments of the member states to create mechanisms to promote social investment.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs danuta jazłowiecka, on her excellent report and on tackling the important subject of social investment. the report comes at a crucial time when the european union's budget, both for next year and the financial framework for 2014-2020, is a hot topic. the union budget should be an investment budget, supporting the recovery from economic difficulties and focusing on strategic areas for growth and jobs. social investment, which links the social and economic dimensions, is a good way to implement effective and long-term measures to support adaptation to labour market changes, increase employment opportunities for young people, create conditions for the development of enterprises and develop the social economy. i therefore believe that ensuring that social investment is adequately supported financially is a prerequisite for the european union's economy to return to growth.
madam president, please! we have an italian evening in the european parliament. madam president, the commissioner, the vice-president of the european commission, the italian president, and we are discussing a very important issue. i take the floor as a former member of the transportation committee for two and a half years. i think that the debate today is so important that, although it is true that not everything can be regulated by legislation, and i am against this, it is precisely in this case that legislation is needed. indeed, the number of motorcycle accidents, including fatalities, is staggering, even in my own country. we also have a colleague from poland in this room, a member of the european parliament, who miraculously escaped death in a motorcycle accident. although he is not here today (it's a pity, because he could have taken the floor). i think these regulations are necessary, it's good that we're adopting them, i fully support them.
mr president, once again the union finds itself at a crossroads and this time we have a choice between two paths. one way to go is a more loosely integrated framework for the 28 member states, the second path will take us to a multi-tiered union with a stronger, deeply reformed, eurozone core. recent policy reforms have aligned us closer to the second path. there are, however, risks that come with this multi-tiered approach potentially leading to a more fragmented single market, but also repatriation of some policies back to national level and a weaker role for the union in the global world. an eu dominated by a strong core and a large periphery might give policymakers less firepower for a sound global position for europe as a whole. the question of whether a single voice in international institutions for the core only will be the best solution might emerge. as this multi-tiered europe becomes a reality, we should be alert concerning potential risks. we need to minimise unwanted spillovers to the greatest extent possible, and the core may be strong enough to provide the necessary impetus for this, but on the flipside it might not be sufficiently powerful to keep the eu together. let me conclude by saying that i admire the efforts of marianne thyssen to keep us together and, at the end of the day, which scenario will materialise depends on the way we design and manage this ensuing multi-tiered structure. that is why our work is so important.
in the light of today's discussion, i'd like to ask a few questions and make a few comments: 1. lack of a social dimension among the four pillars of strengthening economic and monetary union. 2.is there a need to amend the treaties? we already have some instruments: the six-pack, the two-pack, the fiscal pact, the european semester. the question of openness to non-euro area countries. 4.the need for the european parliament to be fully involved in its work. there should be no question of creating a separate assembly for the euro area. 5.the problem of further delegation at the level of the european union. this is about the loss of identity by member states. the effectiveness of action planning. is the european union credible in its actions? seven, the public doesn't understand anything we do. how can we better inform the public to communicate our intentions for economic strengthening and the various forms of crisis response at european union level? why at union level and not just at national level? how does the budget for the financial perspective 2014-2020 relate to this? thank you, sir.
in writing. the european union and its member states are experiencing another year of huge economic problems. the crisis that began with the collapse of the us banks in 2008 has hit young people the hardest. we should regard as a personal failure the fact that as many as 22% of them are unemployed and in some member states the unemployment rate for this age group is over 50%. the paradox is that the so-called erasmus generation - the first generation of true europeans - is increasingly being described as 'lost'. therefore, in preparing recommendations to lead to the creation of a de facto economic and monetary union, full use should be made of all the instruments provided for in the treaties. i agree with the rapporteur that the social policy potential of the lisbon treaty is not being fully exploited. strong action is needed to support and complement member states' efforts to integrate people excluded from the labour market. this exclusion is particularly relevant for young people. studies show that if they fail to find stable and fairly paid employment within a few years of leaving school, they will be permanently excluded from the labour market. instead of building the future of the union, they will be a source of instability and many problems. we should therefore do everything we can to ensure that these young people, who are often well educated, can reach their full potential. if we lose this generation, we lose the union and the good future of europe.
i'm not going to let you do this. europe is in crisis. in addition to the economic crisis, we have a social crisis linked to unemployment. the european industry is facing increasingly difficult conditions for further development as we impose more and more obligations on it. if it is a commitment to new technology and innovation, we all applaud it. however, most of the conditions imposed are to increase the financial burden. i have a fundamental question on this matter. the european emissions trading system is currently being revised. i ask: why should they be used, knowing that they will lead to the escape of industry outside europe? thank you, sir.
the worst element for the industry is the lack of regulatory continuity and unpredictability in the long run. it is therefore important that the law that is being created in europe is stable. i also wanted to know whether the commissioner would take steps to ensure that the rules remain stable for longer periods, at least ten or fifteen years. we know that investments in industry have a long investment life and investors in industry need to know that the money they invest will come back to them and that it will actually be used in the future.
mr. chairman, please! my question is directed to commissioner tajani. akio morita, co-founder of sony, said 20 years ago in davos that only manufacturing can provide a solid employment at the right scale, and the service sector can survive if there is an industry that can support those services. it is increasingly clear that the main problem facing europe is the flight of industry to other countries and regions of the world. let us not be deceived: until we rebuild our industrial sector on our continent, we will not eliminate the main causes of european economic stagnation. more than two years ago, mario monti pointed out that the union needed a new industrial policy to stimulate the economy. once again, however, it was all words and papers. does the european commission not think that it may be time to start work on a common european industrial policy? if the united states, china and japan have different types of instruments to support domestic investment, it is worthwhile to explore such solutions for europe as well. what are the solutions that we should be using today to develop european industry?
i would like to address my supplementary question to both of you, although i have the impression that it is really a question, a simple question, which should be addressed to the whole commission. many, especially young talent, european talent, to spread their wings, go outside europe, to the united states, to china. what does the european commission intend to do to keep these talents in europe, so that europe finally becomes the continent that leads in innovation, leads in new technologies, leads in interesting initiatives?
madam president! the changing economic situation and the fight against the economic crisis are creating the need for changes in the european labour market and in education systems. the european union should develop a social investment plan, i.e. targeted actions to activate european society, focusing on investing in individuals, families and social groups. that is why, in my report adopted today, i am encouraging member states to sign up to the so-called social investment pact, which will promote, among other things, investment in lifelong learning, business-school cooperation, and on-the-job training and specific training in sectors affected by labour shortages. social investment should aim to instill in us from kindergarten the entrepreneurial and self-reliance qualities that have been dormant in some aspects of social policy today. that is why i voted for this report and why i prepared it, and i would like to thank once again the colleagues who have worked with me.
madam president! the current complex type-approval structure is primarily a source of significant, largely unjustified costs for operators and thus indirectly for customers. the european commission's proposal to simplify procedures is therefore aimed at reducing costs for citizens. the report also contains desirable solutions, such as the harmonisation of exhaust emission requirements and the introduction of safeguards against unauthorised manipulation of vehicles. the inclusion of four-wheel agricultural vehicles in the scope of the tractor regulation should also result in improved road safety. thanks to the efforts of my political group, the introduction of the ab system in motorcycles will only cover single-track motorcycles with a higher power output, and will therefore not apply to those with a larger engine and to scooters. the impact assessment has shown that the existing cheaper braking systems are sufficient for these vehicles. the sustainability requirements for motorcycles and the timetable for the introduction of new provisions also take into account our comments. i therefore support this report.
madam president! the current multiplicity of regulatory provisions on the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles has created a complex system of market surveillance in this field. the commission's proposal to cover these matters in a single regulation therefore seems to be the optimal solution and that is why i supported the resolution. it is worth noting in particular that virtually all types of tractors are subject to the approval requirement, with the exception of manufacturers of trailers and towed equipment. however, it is worth noting that the possession of an eu type-approval allows the vehicle to be driven throughout the union. the introduction of a distinction between tractors on the basis of speed will also clarify the unclear provisions in this field. the additional requirements will only apply to higher-speed machines. the practical elimination of the competitive disadvantages for off-road vehicles, whose manufacturers will be able to obtain type-approval for all types of category t, will be of major importance. farmers will therefore not be burdened with the potential unjustified costs of any modifications to the vehicles.
in writing. - i am pleased with the results of the months of negotiations on new rules of jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. the most important element of the new regulation is the possibility of automatic recognition of crossborder judgments in civil and commercial matters issued in different member states. previously, the cost of confirming judgments varied between eur 2 000 and eur 12 000, depending on the country. the abolition of this time-consuming and very costly procedure will save over eur 47 million per year and will also make it faster and easier for union citizens to exercise their rights. it is also important that member states have retained the right to suspend or refuse entirely to enforce a judgment where it is incompatible with their legal order. in addition, the extension of the procedures to include the possibility of bringing a case in any country of the union against a company or its employee outside the member states, as proposed in the report, will make it much easier to enforce rights in disputes of an international nature. i agree with the rapporteur that this is a good step towards simplifying and harmonising european legal rules to keep pace with the challenges of the single market. the new regulation, which strengthens the current legal framework, will not only facilitate citizens' access to justice under article 23 tfeu, but also make it more understandable and less costly for them, which perfectly reflects the trend towards a more transparent and friendly community law.
in writing. − the introduction of a new section on jurisdiction in collective action cases in the regulation will improve access to justice, inter alia by allowing employees to bring actions against several defendants in the area of employment at the same time in accordance with article 6 (1). that is why i voted for this regulation.
in writing. − the proposal aims to reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks by limiting access by general users to substances or mixtures thereof that are legally used on a large scale but can be used as precursors to explosives. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. - i have read the regulation carefully. in my country, the threat of explosives has been the headline news these past few days. all this after the special services arrested a man who was planning to assassinate the polish authorities with explosives. i voted with conviction for the document. security is one of the most important values of the european union society, which we should take care of. especially now, in times when we are particularly vulnerable to terrorist attacks. at the same time, i am pleased that the author has taken into account in the regulation that certain chemicals are widely used for legitimate uses by ordinary users. therefore, with a reasonable margin of safety for citizens, the document does not impose disproportionately stringent restrictions. this will not have a negative impact on the economy or civil liberties, and will effectively prevent potential attackers from accessing dangerous substances. i believe that the european commission, the competent authorities of the member states and international services will continue to monitor the market for these substances. it is important that their market is properly monitored in order to add a new substance to the annex or to remove a substance from the annex in a timely manner.
in writing. − the report endorses the arrangements for preparing recruitment procedures for the european institutions before croatia's accession to the european union on 1 january 2013. it is important that the administration is prepared for the enlargement process so as to enable the new member states to have equal representation in brussels as soon as possible. poland also benefited from similar provisions in 2004.
in writing. − the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010 has highlighted the need for increased safety and the need for a sustainable management policy for offshore oil and gas operations to protect against pollution from exploration and production. that's why i voted for this protocol.
in writing. − the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements, known as fisheries partnership agreements, with third countries is a key element of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp). these agreements commit the parties to promote a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report approves amendments to the directive on eu citizens standing for election to the european parliament in countries other than their country of origin. article 18 of the eu treaty guarantees that any citizen of the union may stand for election to the european parliament in any eu country. this is an important dimension of european citizenship, established by the maastricht treaty 20 years ago. the amendments to the directive introduce practical arrangements to facilitate the practical implementation of this treaty provision.
in writing. − the next elections to the european parliament are coming up in june 2014. in times of growing euroscepticism, we should be particularly concerned to ensure that the citizens of the union participate as widely as possible in elections and that parliament's mandate is as strong as possible. one of the formal and legal limitations to voting is the difficulty of voting in a country where voters are resident but not citizens. this is a growing group of people who are looking for work or study in other countries. unfortunately, the proposed directive does not solve this problem. it does not extend voting rights, but only introduces administrative facilitation for potential candidates. so it facilitates the candidacy, but it does not support the implementation of the electoral law, which is the possibility of actually participating in elections. this solution is therefore far from sufficient.
in writing. − as some countries have not met the deadlines for transposing the rules on the functioning of financial institutions, it is necessary to monitor their implementation in order to safeguard consumers' interests. for example, differences in the interpretation of the period of notice for a credit agreement require clarification. particular attention should be paid to encouraging financial institutions to provide consumers with comprehensive, relevant and understandable information on the risks of borrowing in foreign currencies before signing any contract. last year's inspection of consumer credit websites revealed that almost half of the websites lacked mandatory information, mainly on the cost and duration of contracts, which is therefore of the utmost importance. the growing popularity of sms lending is also of interest, as it can often put a potential customer in a situation where there is no way out, even though it has many advantages. efforts should be made to ensure effective consumer protection in this respect. i support the report.
in writing. − consumer credit is often a key element in raising the standard of living of citizens. unfortunately, unclear rules, lack of information or even consumer-friendly regulations mean that this instrument cannot really be fully exploited. the consumer credit directive provides consumers with a high level of protection and strengthens the internal market for cross-border consumer credit. the good instrument is therefore in force; unfortunately, it cannot fulfil its objectives unless it is correctly and efficiently implemented in the national legal systems of the member states. i support the report because i fully agree that the correct transposition of eu law by member states, without undue delay, is absolutely necessary for consumers to be effectively protected and for the single market to function properly in this respect. the transposition process was particularly problematic with regard to advertising, pre-contractual information, early repayment and the calculation of the annual interest rate. some member states also failed to meet the deadlines for transposition. i therefore believe that the european commission should monitor the transposition and insist that the member states apply the directive correctly.
in writing. - the consumer credit directive will contribute to achieving a high level of consumer protection and strengthening the internal market for cross-border consumer credit, which is why i voted in favour of the directive.
in writing. − last month, unemployment in europe exceeded 25 million for the first time, and almost 80 million europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. in some countries, the majority of this percentage are between 18 and 24 years of age. the situation is indeed very difficult, which is why creating new jobs has become one of the european union's top priorities. the key issues for europe's development seem to be increasing employment, especially among young people, facilitating the transition from education to employment, investing in entrepreneurship and promoting and facilitating the creation of one's own business. this will be possible, among other things, thanks to the social investment pact, which i voted for today. the pact provides for a series of actions to increase the competitiveness of european workers, significantly increasing the number of new jobs for young people by, for example, introducing graduate recruitment incentives for employers and creating good conditions for business development. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. − social investment is essential to ensure the future of employment and to increase europe's competitiveness. since they are designed to reconcile social and economic objectives, governments should view them not only as expenditure but also as investments that will yield real returns in the future. moreover, the crisis seems to require member states to rethink their social policies and to transform the 'welfare state' into an 'activating welfare state' that invests in people and gives citizens tools and incentives, rather than just acting in response to emerging harms caused by market imperfections. in view of the above, it is necessary to ensure that social investment is an essential part of european economic and employment policies and of the eu's response to the crisis. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. - i congratulate the member of parliament danuta jazłowiecka for her excellent work. i voted with conviction to accept this report. the development of a broad social economy can be very helpful at a time when it is not only the homeless, the long-term unemployed or the disabled who are left without a job and with very limited financial means to survive. the crisis, which affects both employers and workers, is making the labour market more volatile. in times of crisis and continuous job cuts, more and more citizens are at risk of poverty. social enterprises, social cooperatives or professional activities establishments are designed to generate a profit which is then used to achieve social objectives or develop the local community. so they are effective tools to help solve social problems that are important to all of us. social entrepreneurship can also be an opportunity for young people who are unable to enter the labour market. as danuta jazłowiecka rightly pointed out in her report, social policies in eu countries need to change dynamically and introduce effective and long-term ways of tackling social problems. social investment is the best example of this and every effort should be made to ensure that it can thrive in the free market as a strong player in the future and become an effective means of preventing social exclusion.
in writing. − the right to remuneration for the resale of a work is one of the first mechanisms to harmonise intellectual property law across the union. the directive, which was not fully implemented in all member states until 1 january 2012, protects the interests of authors by guaranteeing them the continuity of the remuneration received for each subsequent professional resale of the work, and ensures that the buyer never owns the work 100% and, if he decides to sell it through a 'commercial intermediary', must share in the proceeds. the complex legal issue, which is not easily understood by ordinary citizens, has not, it seems, affected the position of the european art market, which recorded record profits of usd 11.57 billion in 2011, an increase of more than usd 2 billion compared to 2010. third countries, following this trend, are also planning to introduce uniform rules on resale law, which would in practice create a level playing field and contribute to the development of competitiveness. in this context, i support the proposal to postpone the commission's review of the directive from 2014 to 2015, 4 years after the last assessment presented in december 2011, in order to make the assessment of the applicable rates, thresholds and categories of beneficiaries clearer and more appropriate for both artists and subsequent owners of works. the main aim of the directive was to ensure that authors of works of art have a share in the economic success of their works and to harmonise the application of this right throughout the eu. as the estimated value of the european art market for 2012 is usd 12 billion, this law is meeting the challenges it faces.
in writing. − i voted in favour because there are differences between the member states in the quality of the administration of the resale right and the directive on the resale right aims to harmonise the application of this right throughout the eu and to ensure that artists have a share in the economic success of their works.
in writing. - the european parliament must be as transparent as possible - this is what taxpayers want, and all changes in this direction should be supported.
in writing. - i think that interpreting and interpreting is expensive and actually unnecessary. the current technologies allow for the audiovisual recording of proceedings to be made available to all citizens, together with interpretation into all the official languages, not only immediately after the meeting, but also in real time, which is why i voted in favour of changing the current translation system.
in writing. - i support the report and voted for its adoption because i believe it will contribute to improving the functioning of the single market. i support the main objectives of the report, which are to simplify the current legal framework and to define new administrative and technical requirements for environmental and safety and market surveillance, as regards the requirements relating to the type-approval of l-category vehicles. better classification of vehicles is needed to ensure safer and more efficient mobility, which will play an important role in the further development of the single market. this will also require an ambitious but precise and simple timetable setting out the stages of market surveillance, more stringent emission levels and mandatory safety requirements. new drive technologies and the possibility to type-approve l-category vehicles equipped with such technologies should also be taken into account. i consider safety issues to be particularly important for l-category vehicles. studies show that drivers of these vehicles are at a much higher risk of serious accidents. the mandatory use of abs systems or automatic headlamp switches in all new motorcycles is certainly an effective way of improving safety. i also think it is very important to ensure equal access to repair and maintenance information and to recognise the diversity of smes in the sector.
in writing. − the regulation aims to simplify the current legal framework and to define new administrative and technical requirements which relate to the environment and safety and market surveillance. type-approval requirements for l-category vehicles are currently set out in framework directive 2002/24/ec and 14 other directives referring to it, which will be repealed and replaced by the proposed regulation laying down the basic rules and the scope of application. it will also allow for more effective surveillance of the european market, and the proposed requirements for l-category vehicles could facilitate the shift towards more efficient and safer driving.
in writing. − in today's vote i voted in favour of a proposal for a directive to make all new motorcycles, three-wheelers and quads sold in the european union from 2016 safer and more environmentally friendly. under the new rules, larger motorcycles (i.e. those with engines over 125 cc) must be equipped with anti-lock braking systems (abs) and smaller ones (with engines under 125 cc) must have abs or combined braking systems (cbs). all motorcycles from 2016 will also meet the euro 4 emission standard. i believe that the new legislation we have voted on will improve road safety and reduce the number of accidents involving motorcycles and atvs. one of the main reasons why i believe that we should support the adoption of more stringent safety requirements is the alarming statistic that these vehicles, although they represent only 2% of road users, are involved in as many as 16% of fatal accidents.
in writing. - i support the report on the approval and market surveillance of two-, three- and four-wheel vehicles. these are l-category vehicles, and the number in the european union is estimated at over 30 million. in poland, too, this category of vehicles is constantly expanding, as it concerns mopeds, motorcycles and so-called quads. although these vehicles account for only 3 percent of the total mileage of public transportation, their share of fatalities is alarmingly high, as much as 16 percent. therefore, i consider it appropriate to increase the safety of these vehicles by making it mandatory to have anti-lock braking systems (abs) and automatic headlamp switches so that vehicles in this category are visible. in supporting the safety of these vehicles, i would like to draw attention to the fact that this must lead to an increase in the price of motorcycles, motorcycles and quad bikes. so the question is, is it worth it? i believe it is worth it, because the protection of human life, especially that of young people, is worth every penny.
in writing. − to strengthen the single market and make it work better, it is very important to work on the various aspects of the single market. this report is one example, which aims to establish uniform rules for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles, which will not only improve the functioning of the internal market but also ensure a higher level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection. the proposal will significantly simplify legislation on the type-approval of agricultural and forestry vehicles, while maintaining a high level of protection. such simplification is also very important for improving the competitiveness of the industry. by introducing a union type-approval procedure, we will contribute to the completion of the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles. in any event, the specific nature of smes must be taken into account. i also think it is important to maintain and define health and safety requirements to take account of all hazards or to have access to vehicle repair and maintenance information, which is becoming increasingly complex.
in writing. − it is important to establish uniform rules for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles, guaranteeing the functioning of the internal market while ensuring a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection. the proposed regulation contributes to the competitiveness of industry by simplifying the existing type-approval legislation, which is why i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. − i abstained because the access of non-banks to customer bank account data should be subject to a thorough analysis. it should not be promoted until it is guaranteed the same level of security as bank accounts.
in writing. − various actions have been taken in relation to the systemic risk created by the parallel banking system, as highlighted in the commission's green paper. the market has also responded and some parallel banking practices have been abandoned since the crisis. the innovative nature of the parallel banking system can, however, lead to the emergence of new elements that may constitute a source of systemic risk, which is why i voted in favour of the draft resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour because it is certainly necessary to continue the implementation of the safer internet programme and in any case to ensure that the responsibility for protecting children from online crime rests with law enforcement agencies, in an increasingly effective form and in cooperation at european level. action to combat online crime against minors, which has been successfully implemented by some member states exchanging information with internet and e-mail service providers, should be supported.
in writing. - in today's world, we are all aware of the possibilities that the internet offers us. it's not just entertainment, but also education, workplace and a source of information. despite the enormous role that the internet plays in our lives today, we must also be aware of the dangers it poses. first of all, we need to stress the importance of protecting children in the digital world, who, through their simple naivety, gullibility and curiosity, are easy targets for all those who act illegally. children should use the internet primarily for learning. they should learn about the world and acquire new skills that are essential for success in the 21st century. they should not be exposed to inappropriate content, exploited, manipulated or compromised in any way. therefore, cooperation between parents, schools and governmental institutions is important to prevent infringements of children's rights online. i therefore support the creation of a framework directive which will incorporate the relevant provisions and thus regulate the whole area and multi-level governance. it will also accelerate the harmonisation of the laws applicable in the member states and encourage greater coordination between them and the eu.
in writing. − social entrepreneurship in europe has great potential, but it also has some unique characteristics, and because of this, its development faces some specific difficulties. i am glad that the commission has recognised this in its communication and has proposed an action plan, because i believe it is necessary to support types of enterprise with such significant potential. that is why i supported parliament's report on this matter. as an epp group opinion-giver on the imco parliamentary committee, i focused mainly on consumer and public procurement issues. the role of consumers in the development of social entrepreneurship is invaluable. it is consumers, by choosing where to buy products or what services to use from companies, who decide whether or not to be businesses. however, consumers are often unaware of the benefits of social entrepreneurship. it also happens that consumers do not trust this type of company. i therefore believe that the european commission should adopt measures to increase consumer confidence in social enterprises and encourage consumers to actively support them. as regards public procurement, i believe that tackling social exclusion by facilitating access to procurement for vulnerable groups is an aspect that should be promoted, taking into account the principles of free market competition and the need to ensure that the public sector is not excluded from the market.
in writing. - i supported the report on the social entrepreneurship initiative because i believe that this type of entrepreneurship is worth promoting. it combines economic and social objectives, not only by positively influencing the development of social services that meet the essential needs of the elderly, the disabled and children, but also by creating jobs, especially for young people. social entrepreneurship also promotes social innovation and the development of local and grassroots initiatives, which is particularly important in the current socio-economic context.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the social business initiative – creating a favourable climate for social enterprises, key stakeholders in the social economy and innovation (2012/2004(ini)) as it provides our communities with the necessary resources to not only boost local and national economies but more importantly allows for a platform to assist our citizens. this initiative clearly seeks to anchor precise, clear and open general conditions for the next phase of the european social economy that will afford new opportunities. it is through this that many benefits can and will be gained in the following phase. in addition the initiative will help to develop orderly framework conditions and action plans that should leave room for diversity and plurality where these already exist, or establish them if they have been lacking so far. finally i would like to say that by implementing the measures in this document we will be better suited to ‘spread the wealth’ so to speak, meaning that enterprises will not be able to focus on just one location to increase their profits but will be welcome to spread out to rural areas and gain the same benefits as those located in large cities.
in writing. −the objectives of building an ecosystem that fosters social enterprises at the heart of the social economy, social innovation, include both recognising existing structures and opening up to new, innovative forms of the social economy. both aspects will be necessary in the future if we are to meet the social challenges of the europe 2020 strategy and deliver its key objectives effectively. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. − the document prepared by the president of the european council 'towards a de facto economic and monetary union' is a good model for discussing the future of the euro area. i think that at this level of generality, all the parties concerned should be involved in the debate, and it is therefore very good that parliament has been able to formulate a position in such a short time. however, the role of parliament should be even more pronounced in the future, in particular by including the president of the european parliament in the team preparing the roadmap for the reform of economic and monetary union. i would also like to emphasise that the actors concerned are not only the institutions but also the member states, in particular the euro area countries and those with a temporary derogation from monetary union. the report by parliament is a good document, and it contains a number of wise proposals, such as the call for a banking union based on the three pillars and the deepening of the common market. we also stress that the fiscal compact should be transposed into secondary legislation and that economic policies should be more effectively harmonised. despite the reference to many important design assumptions, a clear vision of liability management in particular for the banking union is still lacking. it is difficult to see how transferring decision-making powers to the level of the common european institutions while retaining national fiscal responsibility for the possible consequences of these decisions is conducive to financial stability.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the roadmap to banking union with the ecr group. there are several important factors. the management of the egf would take place within the institutional framework of the union and the ep would have a co-legislatory role, which is however contrary to the current commission proposal and the agreement reached in the council (article 127 (6) tfeu). moreover, making the powers of coordination and surveillance of budgetary discipline binding on the member states whose currency is the euro would help to free the national parliaments of the euro area member states from having a say in their own national budgets, and would facilitate the creation of a common euro area budget. as the 'real emu' requires increased budgetary capacity within the eu budget, we oppose both an increase in the eu's own resources and the introduction of an eu tax on tax transactions.
in writing. − in preparation for the european council in december, which will focus on issues related to deepening budgetary and economic integration within the framework of economic and monetary union, the european parliament, in its report to marianne thyssen, has set out its position on the proposal of the president of the european council, herman van rompuy. the report emphasises the unity of the european union, which is particularly important for poland and other countries not yet in the euro area. welcomes the fact that proposals for enhanced economic cooperation cannot be half-baked solutions that divide the union, but must be implemented with due respect for the integrity of the eu's foundations, such as the single market;
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the joint parliamentary assembly has played and continues to play a key role in monitoring the negotiations on economic partnership agreements (epas). the hearings of the main negotiators from both sides, meetings with business and civil society representatives both in formal meetings and accompanying events and the dialogue between meps and members from the south contributed to the transparency of the process and to a better integration of local issues.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? during the many months of work on this report, i have been able to hear the expertise of many scientists, engineers, practitioners and officials. my goal was to present a report that is not written from a desk, but that actually presents and discusses all aspects of the extraction process of this raw material and the technology used. i've been to shale gas drilling sites, and i've talked to politicians, environmentalists, community leaders. the experience gained was reflected in my proposal for a report. i am glad that a balanced compromise has been reached at the level of my committee on the environment, where the shadow rapporteurs have shared my cautious approach, which emphasises the highest environmental standards and stringent requirements, but at the same time gives shale a chance, a chance to be commercially viable. europe cannot afford not to use its own resources, which can not only help reduce dependence on external supplies and increase the eu's energy security, but also contribute to a policy of reducing emissions. the main message of my report is the already repeated demands for a review of current legislation at eu and national level, better implementation of current legislation, the creation of a catalogue of best available practices and techniques, the highest technological standards, continuous monitoring, full transparency of activities and the responsibility of operators. the obligation to declare the chemical composition of hydraulic fluids in accordance with reach, the minimisation of water consumption in the fracturing process, the efficient recycling of returned water and chemicals, and the careful selection of the location of wells should also be a non-discussed standard. we must not forget that the success of the whole project depends on the social acceptance and approval of the citizens. a sustained dialogue with the local community and a pan-european information and education campaign should therefore be ensured. shale gas is therefore a fuel that can and should be extracted in europe. the successful commercialization of unconventional gas has made the united states an exporter of this raw material with a potential that exceeds russia's. europe also has the opportunity to increase its independence from external supplies. the european commission's communication on the energy roadmap 2050 states that gas will play a key, pivotal role in the energy system transformation by contributing to emission reductions, and this is likely to happen. i believe that a debate at european level on this issue is necessary and that there should be a firm basis for cooperation and a compromise on this issue, but a compromise based on facts, scientific results, a compromise that would remove the demagogy and the a priori prejudices that some of the theses advocate. and in that context, i would like to appeal to all members to reject an amendment that breaks that compromise, an amendment that calls for a ban, a moratorium on the use of fracking technology. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of fossil fuels, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of fossil fuels.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mrs grèze, are you aware that producing 1 kilowatt of electricity from coal requires more water than producing the same kilowatt of energy from unconventional gas, or did you miss this fact?
the question was asked by raising the 'blue card' addressed to catherine grèze. i have a question about which developing countries are going to exploit shale gas, or which developing countries are going to do research on whether shale gas is present in them at all. because, frankly, i don't have that kind of knowledge.
question asked by raising the 'blue card' you mentioned a serious problem, which is methane leaking from places where unconventional gas is extracted. i would like to ask you if you have any information on how much methane is extracted from the 4,000 km yamal gas pipeline, which imports over 30 billion cubic metres of gas from northern russia to europe, and what is the efficiency of the presses on the 4,000 km section of the yamal gas pipeline, which we are happy to use to import russian gas?
the question asked by raising the 'blue card' is addressed to the candidate. first of all, you said there was a moratorium. i do not know whether the people who talk about a moratorium on shale gas all the time are aware that the european treaty states that each country can choose its energy basket. and you can't ban and moratorium. and we will not call for a moratorium on nuclear power plants, demanding that france shut them down, and you cannot demand another ban on other energy sources. the only thing to think about is how to regulate these matters in a way that benefits everyone, taking into account economic considerations. the second thing i want to say is, are you aware that fracking and the substances that are being pushed underground are currently being controlled under the european reach programme? it's not like she's a complete free-spirited american. and the third thing. i want to address this exhibition thing. one of the participants was a coalition of citizens, because in poland there are entire communities that want shale gas extracted on their territory. they just want it.
on behalf of the ecr group. my dear people! unlocking the potential of unconventional gas in europe means a more competitive energy market, lower prices for ordinary citizens and businesses, and thus a more competitive economy. ultimately, this means the ability to reduce co2 emissions more effectively and support renewable energy sources, which sometimes require such support for the simple reason that sometimes the sun doesn't shine and sometimes the wind doesn't blow. i don't understand why the proponents of renewable energy have such a problem with gas, when it is their only solution, as the american experience shows. this potential is very well recognised in the report drawn up by mrs tzavela, member of the committee on industry. i thank her very much for that and i congratulate her. the report prepared by the environmental protection committee looks as if it were written on some other subject. we're being offered a black, even catastrophic picture of the industry. out of 74 points, literally 3 of them suggest a non-critical, non-cautious, sustainable way of talking about gas. the hard-headed left sees in gas only dangerous substances, landscape destruction, water pollution, air pollution, toxic waste, escaping methane, finally and this is the absolute icing on the cake also the increased land prices in africa are related to the use of unconventional gas in europe. it is as if we do not have the highest, best environmental standards in europe, which are eagerly introduced by the member states and industry. the report, because of the compromise provisions, is a complete mess: in one place it talks about the reduction potential, in another it says that co2 emissions could be even higher; in one place it says that the environmental impact assessment directive is being applied, in three other places it literally says that the directive should be applied. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. we are speaking out against security of supply, against competitive prices. these are the reasons why conservatives and reformers in this form cannot support this report. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer questions by raising the 'blue card'. there is only one way to evaluate the potential of our resources in a rational way. we need more drilling, and it's not the politicians, but the geologists and the investors who can decide how to harness this potential. as for the implementation of environmental legislation poland is a country that has no case before the ets for not implementing any provision of eu environmental law, and i do not know anyone in poland, either a politician or a businessman, who would not want to apply these rules, because they make this market better for everyone, make it a fairer market. what do i tell the citizens? i'll tell them that if you're a citizen living in, let's say, the massif central, you have the right to decide politically not to use unconventional sources of gas and oil. but i will say a firm 'no' to such citizens who, living in massiv central, will find that such investments should not be made in pomerania, because it is a bit too far. mr pereiro, on the subject of welfare. and this is certainly a huge opportunity, i've talked about this, it could affect energy prices. the high energy prices today make it increasingly difficult for us to have an industrial policy, and we are losing our competitiveness. in the productivity rankings, our countries are falling because of the price of energy. of course, such activities always involve risks and that is why we must and want to apply the environmental standards that are required by eu law.
on behalf of the efd group. - madam president! - i have to go. for many months, the debate on shale gas has been a clash of arguments, interests and emotions, huge emotions. as co-rapporteur on the environment committee, i am once again aware of the danger of a biased, unbiased view of shale gas extraction. citizens of many countries, such as poland, see the newly discovered shale gas deposits as a great opportunity to reduce energy prices and become independent of external energy supplies, especially from the east. i'm very sorry that environmentalists don't see shale gas as a chance to decarbonize our energy system, which is now based mostly on coal. already, the climate package, especially the further reduction of co2, is setting very difficult conditions to meet and is creating huge economic and social problems in many countries. that's why shale gas is a huge opportunity, not a threat. the european commission has already announced its intention to introduce new rules for the environmentally safe extraction of hydrocarbons, despite the fact that analyses, including mrs tzaveli's report, agree that eu rules sufficiently - i stress: sufficiently - regulate the unconventional gas sector. it seems that only cooperation between the governments of the member states can stop the blockade of gas exploitation. finally, in this difficult context, i would like to once again congratulate the rapporteur members from both parliamentary committees who recognise the strategic importance of shale gas for european energy. i call on all colleagues to support mrs tzaveli's report and to reject the amendment on the ban on hydraulic fracturing of gas tabled a few days ago to mr sonik's report.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question: is the president aware that virtually all forms of energy use water, and can he make a short comparative analysis of how much water is used, for example, in nuclear energy, in mining, etc.? i think that you shouldn't use arguments that are completely populist, because they apply to all types of energy extraction.
the question asked by raising the 'blue card' is addressed to the candidate. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. do you not think that it would be better if the security of the citizens of bulgaria, including environmental security, were taken care of by the bulgarian government and the security of the citizens of poland - by the polish government - rather than the whole union taking care of who is responsible for what kind of security? and the second question: do you know - because you said that the earthquake is one of the reasons why we should stop shale gas extraction - would you be able to tell when was the last time there was an earthquake in poland and what was the magnitude of the earthquake?
the question asked by raising the 'blue card' is addressed to the candidate. we were talking about greenhouse gas emissions, and you said that there's a lot more of it when you're mining shale gas, and my colleagues have already talked about that. i wonder if you are aware of the european commission report which clearly states that shale gas produces less greenhouse gases than coal and also emits less than russian gas transported from siberia to europe. secondly, are you aware that there are very large communities that want to extract shale gas because it will radically change the economic situation, employment, investment in their region? there are people like that, and i know them because i come from that region and i work for that region.
the question asked by raising the 'blue card' is addressed to the candidate. ms rivasi is known to be very critical of this energy source and often even questions the national dimension of the decision on this issue. but you were visiting the committee on industry, energy and research in poland and you saw what the polish environmental regulations are. and i remember you said, with great appreciation, that it was very early, because we had already started this process in the 1970s. do you not think that the american examples - even if there were some mistakes - should not be transferred to the european soil, that there are countries in the european union which, although they have only recently become its member states, have environmental law and authority in this matter such that it allows for the real protection of the environment - and of water resources, and of land, and of many other resources that are associated with the process of exploration and exploitation of gas?
mr. chairman, please! this is an appeal to you if i may ask because from the left once again despite the pleas of mrs. tzaveli there are arguments that the views of this side of this room are the result of lobbying activities. i would ask you to stop using that kind of language because it is really offensive to all of us. and i'm asking you to intervene, to take away everyone's voice, to use those powers that you have. because it's not a debate anymore, it's just a smear campaign. and to you on the left, i ask you: we are really different, we just have different views, get used to the fact that someone who has different views from you just has them, not because they've been bought, but because they have different views. i'm especially directing this to a communist party official.
ladies and gentlemen! i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter. because it turns out that what many european nations see as a great opportunity, for you, it's only a threat. do you know where the oldest working oil well in europe is? in the ashes of the gorillas. it was dug by hand in 1852, when poland was under siege. can you imagine what we have to say in poland, what the mps from the uk and from other countries have to say in their own countries when they return? that the free nations of the european union, contrary to the terms of the treaty - because the treaty guarantees us that right - want to ban shale gas extraction? they want to take away a great opportunity from the nations? what would be the point? when we talk about the need for greater integration, when we say: let's be like the united states, when we look at the fact that shale gas is extracted in the united states without any general regulation, every state does it, then we say: no, let's not be like the united states, let's be like europe! only this europe must be free, must respect the right to make free economic decisions, especially when they are very restrictive on environmental matters. because such regulations are in force in poland and in many countries of the european union. i am disappointed with this report and i conclude that it is not worth having this debate.
mr. chairman, please! the need to diversify energy sources means that we cannot neglect such a significant resource as shale gas. the commission notes that the uk authorities have not provided any evidence that the shale industry is in a difficult situation. it is in the interest of the community as a whole that this fuel be intensively studied and eventually exploited. the commission notes that the polish authorities have not provided any evidence that the shale industry is in a position to benefit from the exemption. that's why the polish government is making shale a priority in energy policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources. such actions are incompatible with the treaties, highly unjustified, harmful and, in the long term, detrimental to the citizens of the member states. i agree with the argument of mr. sonik that we cannot afford not to use our own energy resources. the united states is an example of how rapidly and significantly shale exploitation has translated into gas prices that have been drastically reduced. this obviously affects the competitiveness of american industry and cannot harm our domestic industry.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! i will not go into detail. shale provides jobs, is safe, is green, reduces energy costs, diversifies the supply of energy to europe, which is very important for some countries. and i can understand why you don't understand that. i say that to the left side of our room. i could say and apply the same method you have used against us: you pretend not to litter, that these arguments do not reach you, that you are in the pocket of gazprom, that you are at the service of the french nuclear industry, that you are at the service of those who produce wind power plants in germany. i could say that, but i won't. because i think you have the right to your opinions, i think you have the right to your opinions, even if they're wrong. i wish you all understood that shells are good for everyone. thank you very much. thank you.
the question asked by raising the "blue card" addressed to graham watson. - i'm not sure. i was wondering if you know of any energy-producing activities that don't change the environment? i know of many places where the location of wind turbines as a renewable energy source has sparked public outcry. in your opinion, does the extraction of conventional gas also have no impact on the environment? does coal mining, for example, have an impact on the environment? it's working. for example, does not the harvesting of energy from solar systems have an environmental impact, since we have to use many rare earth elements in them? we had a debate recently on this subject and mr bütikofer, amongst others, spoke about how europe is deficient in many rare earth elements which are needed for modern technologies. they don't come from the moon, they just come from the earth. and we wondered in this report whether certain regulations should also be changed so that they can be used where they are now, for example by changing the rules on 'natura 2000'.
today, the debate on the potential use of shale gas is addressed to a european citizen. the european parliament is already presenting its position today, before the commission's proposal. the worst part is that in this debate, supporters and opponents don't hear each other. the initiatives taken in the european parliament, such as the shale gas round table, hearings, conferences, served to deepen knowledge rather than bring positions closer together. and shale gas is just natural gas that we use every day in our homes and businesses, and the technology for exploration is virtually the same as for example, exploring for geothermal sources. i believe that the doubts about the potential for groundwater pollution with the development of shale gas extraction and the possible leakage from wells, which are treated as disasters in the industry, can be resolved by adopting best practices in the execution of wells and further substantive discussion. the state has a duty to society to take care of the raw materials. in poland, we have extremely stringent environmental standards, which are much higher than those in the united states. there are, of course, many layers that can be improved. one of them is dialogue with local communities, but that's a communication deficit, not a regulatory one. the prospects for gas production in europe are different from those in the united states. that is why no one today is promising that shale gas will make europe completely independent of imports. however, it is sufficient to stabilise these imports and to replace the declining supply of gas from conventional deposits. just having natural gas reserves doesn't guarantee an economic leap. this will depend on the quantities of gas extracted, which are economically viable, and on the efficiency of the acquisition of knowledge and the development of european extraction techniques. the unique opportunity facing the european economy is the potential access to its own energy resources, which should be a rallying point for european public opinion. thank you, sir.
it is rare for two committees to report on the same subject, but it is good that we have this way and we are looking at two different aspects of the same shale gas phenomenon. and i am also glad that in the commission - as the commissioners have mentioned - several commissioners will be dealing with this matter, because this will allow us to take full account of the ecological and environmental aspects, as well as the economic and security aspects in europe. and i very much look forward to the research reports that the commission is preparing, because the degree of ignorance about the effects of shale gas that i have heard today is simply staggering. if the main argument of the members of the european parliament is that they have seen the film 'gasland' and they draw all sorts of conclusions from it, then i think that is very dangerous for our debate. what's really troubling to me in this debate today is that one side has been emphasizing that they care about health and they care about people's health, and that those who talk about growth, about jobs, don't care about health, don't care about the environment. why such accusations? we also care about health and the environment. ladies and gentlemen! i am conducting a public opinion survey in lublin, one of the two regions in poland where shale gas is extracted or is planned to be extracted. because i don't want to talk about the public interest, i want to hear what the public has to say about it. and i want to say that shale gas in poland is 73% of the people who are being studied, and in the agricultural, traditional, eastern lublin region, it's 93% of the people in that region. to the question: what would happen if your town were mining (because that's something you can obviously pay attention to), 56% of poles say: yes, i agree to shale gas mining in my town. in lublin, 73% of the population speaks it. and mr. watson, i assure you that lublin is a very beautiful region and people there are not afraid of the view, they are afraid of their jobs, their income, the development of the region. and they care about it.
today's debate is a manifestation of the unprecedented hypocrisy and the breach of promise in europe. when my country, poland, agreed in 2007 to a dramatic reduction in its international standing by leaving the nice system and moving to a double-majority system, the lisbon treaty was to compensate for this loss by introducing a clause on european energy solidarity. in our eyes, this record, this principle is violated. under the lisbon treaty, the nordstream pipeline was completed as a vital element of energy solidarity. here's russia, the largest country in europe, germany, they would rather have a pipeline under the baltic sea, and pay three times the price, to bypass a european union member country, poland. today we have another step in this work, namely the absurd accusations against shale gas, echoing the interests of russia, which wants to maintain its monopoly, and france, which wants to maintain its dominance in the sale of nuclear reactors. and lastly, mr president, if the principle of european energy solidarity is to make any sense, then i say to the other side of the room: hands off shale gas. let europe enjoy this great wealth which can be the driving force behind our economic development, our economic independence, our energy. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to refer to the comments made by my predecessors which raised the issue of the possible seismic risk of fracking. well, i wanted to inform you that such a specialized study was conducted in pomerania, poland, in my region, and it turned out that the seismic response from hydraulic fracturing is less than the response after a lightning strike, and i don't think anywhere in the world has it been that lightning has caused any, even a local, earthquake. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the report, both reports, and i am sure that i will vote in favour of them and i would also encourage you to support them.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i think it was one of the most lively and dynamic debates of this term, which shows the passions that lie dormant in the members of the european parliament when we start talking about shale gas, and also shows the difficulty i had in making the report i was preparing meet the hopes and expectations of the whole house, or indeed of the majority of my colleagues. on the one hand, it is argued that there is no moratorium on it, and a moratorium amendment is now being tabled. on the other hand, the ecr colleagues on the right say that it does not meet their aesthetic impressions in the right way, because the report contains left-wing misasmas. so i was, or am i in the situation of someone who is piloting a ship in a storm? the most important thing is to get to the harbor. it is true that on the way, the outbuildings sometimes fall off, the masts sometimes break, and the crew sometimes get lost. but i think there is a voice of reason in this report, because what i am talking about is to review the current legislation at eu and national level, to create a catalogue of best available practices and techniques, to ensure the highest technological standards, to have continuous monitoring, to develop the highest safety and risk management standards, to clearly define the responsibility of industry for damage caused on the basis of the polluter pays principle. full transparency of operations, obligation to declare the concentration and chemical composition of hydraulic fluids, minimisation of the use of toxic substances, minimisation of the use of water in the fracturing process, measurement of water quality before and after drilling. so we have taken into account all the fears that exist today - not in all societies, because as the example of poland shows, most are positive about shale gas extraction - but we have to take the average and assure european citizens that a clear message is coming from brussels or strasbourg - and we have done our best to ensure the safety of the environment and citizens when extracting shale gas.
in writing. while congratulating the rapporteur, it is worth noting that the revolution in shale gas exploration and exploitation that is taking place before our eyes could prove to be a real boon for europe. the extraction of shale gas on the one hand means diversification of gas fuel sources, which is a prerequisite for ensuring energy security, and on the other hand it ensures the reduction of emissions from combustion, the reduction of air pollution from the energy sector and the increase of energy efficiency. the eu economy needs shale gas to recover and help create jobs, while breaking the link between economic growth and co2 emissions. shale gas means better implementation of the union's climate policy through a change in the energy balance resulting from a gradual move away from a high-carbon economy and towards greener energy sources. is it possible to extract shale gas and not lose anything? of course, this is what our colleagues are saying in the reports we are discussing today. the recipe is simple: transparent regulations, honest dialogue with the public and environmental organisations, promotion of the safest extraction technologies, dedicated monitoring of the areas where extraction takes place. europe needs good, cheap energy to keep growing, so it has been given the gift of shale gas. to reject it would be a grave mistake, to exclude our continent from being a respected player in the world energy market.
in writing. in the face of economic collapse, all steps must be taken to strengthen european competitiveness, strengthen the economies of the individual community countries and reduce the cost of living for citizens. there must be a consensus in parliament on these objectives. i don't understand the behaviour of the representatives of the european left any more. behaviour that is not only contrary to the spirit of integration, but also to common sense. the attack on shale gas the remedy for europe's energy problems is marked by the one-sided, narrow-minded viewpoint that has characterized the lobbyists of russia's gazprom the monopoly that loses the most on shale gas extraction. let me remind you that a recent cera report estimates that shale gas reserves in europe are 173 trillion cubic metres. the ability to extract and exploit up to 10% of these geological resources is a game changer for european gas security and a major boost to the european economy. this is all the more so as cera estimates that by 2025 european gas production should be between 60 and 200 billion m3. moreover, unlike russian gas, it is located within the boundaries of the european market. consequently, once europe has developed its extraction of unconventional gas and has adequately controlled its costs, it will be in strong competition with both russian gas transported from far siberia and lng produced from shale gas and imported into europe from the usa.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr president of the committee on industry, ladies and gentlemen, the steel sector is a key sector for european industry, employing 360 000 people, with a turnover of eur 170 billion, and it occupies a key position in the manufacturing value chain. following restructuring efforts and mergers and acquisitions in the 1980s and 1990s, the steel sector is today a dynamic and globally competitive industry, although it suffers from a number of problems. although today 12% of the steel sold in the world is produced in europe - our companies supply about 80% of the european market and export 80% of their products - we cannot help but note that, on the one hand, the economic crisis and the stagnation of the euro zone, combined with the ever-higher prices of raw materials and energy, are a problem for all our steel companies, to which is added strong competition from countries, especially asian countries, with a steel industry that produces at lower cost. the demand for steel products from non-european countries is also falling, as is the demand for imports. electricity prices are among the highest in the world and unfortunately, if we compare, for example, the price in the united states, the price of electricity in europe costs twice as much as overseas. so we have a number of problems with this overall framework and that is why i have kept the commitment i made before the summer break, following a meeting with the trade unions accompanied by president pervenche berès, to set up a high-level group to implement a european commission action plan before the summer of next year. the first meeting was held on 19 september, at the end of which the stakeholders, i.e. the industry and company representatives, identified the main challenges facing the steel sector. one of the key messages is the right balance between the objectives of the different policies in order to safeguard the competitiveness of the sector in europe and also the employment prospects, in order to avoid an erosion of the value chain based on steel as well. the next meeting is scheduled for 6 december, at which time we will seek to deepen the issues addressed at the first meeting and present an action plan to the college of commissioners before the 2013 summer holidays. i am absolutely convinced that steel can and must be supported, because we believe that this is not a structural crisis but one linked to the particular general economic situation, which is why steel can again play a leading role in our industrial policy in the coming years. it is no coincidence that in the text of the policy on the reindustrialisation of europe we are looking at some sectors which should be given special support, including efforts in innovation and substantial public and private financial support, high-quality sectors - i am thinking of eco-friendly construction and the green car sector - which are two of the main customers of steel. steel therefore fully fits into the overall strategy of the european commission, which has set itself the objective - as i have already explained to the parliamentary groups and before that to the council - of ensuring that by 2020 20% of the union's gross domestic product comes from the manufacturing sector. of course, we will have to work harder to promote more advanced business technologies, also because manufacturers can then increase their capacity for innovation: it is also important to focus efforts on innovation in the steel sector. i am therefore optimistic despite the difficulties. the european commission is absolutely determined to work intensively in this area, so much so that i have also asked commissioner andor to participate in all initiatives aimed at achieving this objective, since my action is twofold: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the steel industry, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its future work. so , what ? the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i think that these are the two words on which we can work in the coming weeks and months to ensure a future for the steel industry, which i believe can be a positive future. i believe that if we work together intelligently, we can achieve the objective we all believe in and which is at the heart of the question put by the committee on industry in this parliament, to which i have tried to give an answer, being in perfect harmony with the sentiments of the european parliament.
on behalf of the efd group. the steel sector in europe is experiencing a crisis of declining competitiveness and rising production costs, largely due to the wrong decisions to adopt an energy and climate package mandating a reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020. in poland alone, the implementation of its provisions will increase unemployment by about 250 thousand people and increase energy prices. due to the increase in production costs and reduced demand, more than 600 people are now planned to be laid off in the sędzimir hut in kraków alone, and similar group layoffs are planned in sosnowiec, chorzów and warsaw. if the situation does not change, there will be further closures of large furnaces and a shift of production to ukraine and india, where no climate restrictions apply. the re-launch and return of the industry to europe will be unlikely. this is all the more sad, given that the sector accounts for 7.5% of all european industry, and is one of the largest employers in the european union's industry. the steel rescue programme should therefore be based on the suspension of the provisions of the energy and climate package, which is leading to the deindustrialisation of europe. another important factor is the blocking of imports of low-priced steel from the former soviet union and china. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! in europe and poland, there are regions where people have lost their jobs and their employers are importing cheap steel from india. and this is a classic example of carbon leakage. if the european commission continues to change the emissions trading system, the situation will only get worse and we are very concerned about this. the commission's proposed backloading is a major problem for the steel industry today. some say that not only will we feel the impact of the decision on prices, but everyone knows that backloading is the first step towards structural interventions, set-aside and various similar solutions. it is true that we have adopted state aid guidelines allowing for compensation for indirect costs, but all the evidence shows that in times of crisis member states simply do not have the budget and the money for such compensation. and on thursday, we will vote on the draft resolution for cop 18. the document expresses concern about the increasing level of imported emissions. before we do anything, we need to make sure that what we do really helps and that we are not exporting jobs to import pollution.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. chairman of the committee on petitions! ladies and gentlemen! ladies and gentlemen! at that moment the visegrad group was in the chamber, because the president of parliament is from the czech republic, the commission representative is from slovakia and i am from poland. but to return to the main topic of our meeting, i would like to emphasize the importance of the committee on petitions. it is often a lifeline for the desperate citizens, taxpayers, voters of our member states. these people often feel that the european parliament is sometimes just the committee on petitions, because it is the address of many complaints, aches and pains, the problems of ordinary people who are not interested in big politics but in their specific problems. these are the problems that my esteemed predecessors in this room have been talking about wisely. i would like to say that the committee on petitions is concerned with problems which are, quite frankly, mega-political, because i would remind you that in the last term of office the committee on petitions of the european parliament gave the direction to the whole of the european parliament when it came to the nordstream gas pipeline. the european parliament, after the petitions committee's decision on the matter, adopted a sceptical decision. unfortunately, the governments of the member states, or some of them, have decided otherwise, but the committee on petitions of the european parliament has behaved in a very decent way in this matter and in accordance with the intentions of the citizens of the member states who contacted it. i would also like to remind you, although it may not please some in this room, of the case of spain which is being discussed here. and rightly so. or another famous case: radio cope, a catalan radio station that was denied a licence and, thanks to debates and pressure from the committee on petitions, won the battle with the president of the european parliament, josep borrell, and was subsequently granted the licence. i am talking about specific cases where the committee on petitions has been very influential and effective. but there were also some very minor matters. i will speak specifically about my country, poland, where citizens complained to the committee on petitions about importing cars from abroad when they had to pay double duties. the petitions committee also dealt with this matter. these are extremely important, perhaps trivial, but concrete matters which build the authority of the european parliament. this is extremely important and the committee on petitions should be thanked for it.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to congratulate mr chichester on his excellent report and, above all, to express my appreciation for the great and very important work of the committee on petitions - a work which is somewhat overshadowed by the work of other committees, those on substance which deal with draft legislation. the committee on petitions, on the other hand, plays an extremely important role - that of liaison, of dialogue with the citizens of the european union. it is in this committee that you can learn how european law works in relation to specific people. and it's very important to check how this law works in practice, which we're establishing here in this room. it is regrettable that the committee on petitions is not able to meet all expectations. there are many people who have petitioned, but there is only one committee, and of course its work, which is very important, is too modest for these needs. and we should consider whether, in the future, the committee on petitions should also be involved in examining petitions in some way, so that these petitions can be better recognized. the report is very good, although it may be a little lacking in information on the effectiveness of these petitions, what has been changed by these petitions, what has been achieved by citizens who petition parliament. i would also like to draw attention to the need for such a response to those petitions which have been declared inadmissible. of course, the possibilities for dealing with petitions are limited, they can only concern those matters arising from european law, but the point is that those citizens who approach petitions - those that cannot be recognised in parliament - also obtain some satisfaction. and it seems that, for example, it would be desirable to forward these petitions to the relevant national authorities with some such gesture of interest in what happens to them next. among the subjects to which i would like the committee to pay attention in the future is the problem of harmonized taxes, vat. in my country, poland, there are many complaints against national authorities which, in the opinion of the complainants - and in my opinion the complainants are right in this case - do not fully comply with the principles of european law and these are matters worth looking at by the tax committee in the future.
thank you, mr. chairman! the committee on petitions plays a very important role in the process of monitoring community law, and complaints from european citizens enable the european parliament to draw attention to any cases of infringement. the issue of non-compliance by member states with the charter of fundamental rights is one of the most frequently raised in our discussions. in this context, the recent case law of the court of justice on article 51 is of particular relevance, underlining that the fundamental rights of the individual in the union are now protected and guaranteed by treaty provisions. they must therefore be strictly observed by the authorities of the member states. the creation of a single window for citizens wishing to lodge appeals, to file a complaint or to receive information through the your rights in the european union portal was a good step. this initiative, together with the new petition portal, will further bring the european parliament and commission's procedures closer to union citizens, potentially increasing the number of petitioners. while congratulating the rapporteur, i would also like to underline the continued need to monitor the implementation of european law in the european union, especially in the areas of environmental law, justice and the internal market, as the vast majority of petitions received in 2011 concerned breaches of law in these areas. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! in 2011, our work in the committee on petitions focused primarily on two issues: environmental protection and the protection of fundamental rights. this year, as in previous years, the number of petitioners increased to 1414. unfortunately, 416 of them were found to be unacceptable. it is therefore necessary to increase efforts to inform citizens about the scope of the legal framework in which our commission operates. i welcome parliament's decision to involve the committee on petitions in any hearing on a successful european citizens' initiative. the fact that the committee responsible for the case is represented by a committee of inquiry confirms the status of the committee on petitions as the body with the greatest experience in dealing with the citizens of the european union. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of the decision to introduce technological solutions to improve citizens' access to petitions, including the development of a more transparent and practical portal on its website, as well as the creation of a 'single window' for citizens seeking information or wishing to lodge an appeal.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first i would like to thank mr chichester, the committee on petitions and mrs mazzoni once again for their excellent work and cooperation with the commission. we will of course try to work together on the deepening of this cooperation and also on how we could express it even more explicitly. therefore we would like to include next year – especially in the report on the application of european law as mentioned in my introductory remarks – the very valuable input we received from the committee on petitions, indicating citizens’ complaints concerning the applicability, application and respect for european law. from this debate, i would also like highlight how much we appreciate the european parliament’s plan to upgrade the website, with a focus on the commission’s reply. i believe this would complete the picture, showing what happened with a petition and how the committee dealt with it as well as the input and response from the commission. so this is an excellent initiative and of course we very much look forward to cooperating with you on these issues. because of the time restrictions i can only respond to two issues, which were probably those mentioned most often. the first one relates to the environmental petitions and to the speech made by mr boştinaru concerning the revision of the environmental impact assessment directive. it is true that the proposal was adopted on 26 october 2012. we would like to make the process through this new proposal shorter, with clear timelines, but also much stronger with regard to the quality of air reports through the use of accredited experts and mandatory assessment of the reasonable alternatives. i believe that this would also give a bit of clarity to the process and strong assurances to citizens that all the environmental impacts are assessed properly. concerning the spanish coastal law, which was raised by mrs auken and mr cashman, i would just like to inform you that the commission has raised the issue with the spanish authorities on several occasions in recent years because we have been aware that the number of complaints is actually very high, not only from spanish but also from eu citizens. we are still keeping a very close eye on this issue, especially on the new draft law which was proposed. we are in contact with the spanish authorities and of course the commission will follow the process leading to the adoption of the law very carefully and will look at the final text to see whether it affects eu law or not.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first i would like to thank madam lichtenberger for her report, her continued support and for the gentle pressure she continuously exercises on the commission in this very important area of cooperation. as we have clearly indicated in our 2010 annual report on monitoring the application of eu law, it is quite clear that our two institutions attach great importance to the correct application of eu law. i very much appreciate the opportunity to have regular exchanges of views on this subject. with regard to the issues raised in the report by ms lichtenberger, i would just like to highlight the following points. firstly, i am very pleased that parliament endorses the commission’s smart regulation approach. as an important element of this policy, the commission will continue to assist member states in their efforts to transpose directives in a timely fashion. if, despite these efforts the member states miss the transposition deadline, the commission will systematically propose financial penalties and sanctions, exactly as was highlighted and suggested by ms lichtenberger. the commission will also work with the member states to ensure that eu law is correctly implemented on the ground. i am equally grateful for the report’s positive tone with regard to the early resolution of problems related to the application of eu law. we will continue to work with the member states to try to solve the problems. the objective is for the infringement procedure to become unnecessary, since problems could be solved at an earlier stage. this would benefit, first and foremost, citizens and businesses. however, i repeat once more that, if no solution is found, the commission will vigorously use the legal instruments at its disposal. the 20th annual report underlined once again that petitions from citizens and businesses are very valuable signals highlighting possible violations of eu law. the same is true for complaints from citizens and organisations, with 4 000 complaints having been received in 2010. i take note of parliament’s remarks on procedural law under article 298 of the treaty. we consider that the complainants already benefit from the comprehensive administrative guarantees, and we will have the occasion to continue the discussion on this issue when the report by mr berlinguer is tabled in parliament’s plenary session. concerning transparency – the item raised by ms lichtenberger on infringement procedures – and especially the transparency of eu pilot projects, the commission fully complies with the rules laid down in the revised framework agreement from the very start of investigations into cases. the legal and factual elements are often unclear, and since we strive to have correct information and respect the principle of sincere cooperation with the member states, it is not possible to divulge full information at certain stages of the procedure, especially early on. the commission welcomes parliament’s interest in ensuring the correct application of eu law for the benefit of eu citizens and businesses, and the commission looks forward to continuing its work with parliament on this very important aspect of the smart regulation agenda.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on petitions. - thank you, mr president! as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on petitions on the 28th annual report on the monitoring of the application of european union law in 2010, i welcome the final text of the report. the proper implementation of union law in the member states is also directly linked to the need to establish a transparent and understandable national legal framework for citizens. in particular, the proposal to introduce additional mechanisms for the enforcement of eu law by member states and the parliament's demand for the introduction of procedural law in the form of a regulation under article 298 tfeu, which would ensure that the commission respects the principles of an open, efficient and independent european administration, and that parliament can play the role of co-legislator and guardian of the rule of law, are to be supported. i would also like to emphasise the key role of the 'eu pilot' system as a method of handling complaints at the first stage of the procedure. as a result of this practice, in 2010, 88% of infringement cases originating from the 18 participating countries did not reach the court of justice, as the member states themselves had corrected the wrong regulations. however, the european commission should clarify the status of the 'eu pilot' and extend its scope to the whole union so that it can help an even wider group of citizens. however, the 28th annual report on monitoring the application of community law raises concerns about the numerous delays in the transposition of eu law, which in turn prevents citizens from relying on new legislation. the good solution is therefore to apply article 260 tfeu, which allows the commission to refer to the court of justice for the imposition of financial penalties on member states for late transposition of the directive. i congratulate the rapporteur and fully support her report and the effort to make community regulations clearer and more transparent and thus more citizen-friendly. i would like to point out that petitions by citizens and civil society organisations are the main source of information on non-compliance with eu law by the various levels of member state authorities. they are also the key mechanism linking citizens, parliament and the commission. petitions to the european parliament have led to infringement proceedings in many areas, such as environmental protection and the respect of fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights. much has been done in this area, but there is a continuing need to improve the european legal system at all levels, especially at local level. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to congratulate mrs lichtenberger on a very interesting report on the issue of law enforcement. we are concerned with the respect of the law by the european institutions, by the national institutions, but i think we should sometimes pay more attention to how we ourselves make the law and whether we always remember the treaty provisions that are most important to us. the proposals under discussion today are, for example, the reform of the common agricultural policy and the system of direct payments to farmers. and there, the differences between member states in the distribution of subsidies discriminate, clearly discriminate, against certain member states, especially the new member states, in flagrant violation of the treaty provisions. we should not allow legislation which in such a way - so obvious, so obvious - discriminates against certain people and breaks the provisions of the treaty.
blue-card question. – i have just two very simple questions for mr farage. if you believe that this house is useless why have you run for election to this house to represent your constituents here? and why do you come to strasbourg each month to take part in our debates?
mr. chairman, please! tomorrow in brussels we will see how much the new european budget will strengthen european solidarity and cohesion and how much it will be a reflection of the particular interests of the net contributor countries. how much will it be an investment in common development, the rapid development of the european union, and how much will it be a budget of stagnation, a budget that deepens the differences between the individual countries of the european union. it is understandable, ladies and gentlemen, that today we are talking about potential cuts in this budget, we are talking about the size of this budget. it's obvious and it's absolutely justified. however, there is less public comment on how many of the proposals on the table contain provisions that could simply prevent, weaken or limit the future absorption of eu funds by the eu countries. i am referring to the waiver of vat eligibility, to the economic conditionality on which the absorption of eu funds will depend. i am referring to the so-called capping, i am referring to the system of adjustment of net projects, which assumes that contrary to what is in the current perspective future projects that will not be subject to the proper assessment of the european union will be lost in brussels and the funds will return to the union. ladies and gentlemen! today we must ask ourselves whether these restrictive limits, the restrictive rules contained in the negotiating proposals which will be negotiated tomorrow in brussels, will not simply limit the absorption of eu funds in the future in the context of the new financial perspective. if that were the case, then, ladies and gentlemen, both the countries of the new union and the old one should give very serious consideration to the fact that these proposals should be significantly restricted, and if that were not the case, then a country like poland should simply veto these proposals.
thank you, mr president, commissioner and minister. i would like to begin by referring to the speech by mr mavroyiannis, who said on behalf of the european council and the cypriot presidency: 'we are living in difficult times, times of crisis. we cannot ignore this crisis when planning the eu's budget expenditure. yes, it is a fact, and no one is disputing that we are facing a crisis. but there are also a lot of voices -- i would say, a very large majority -- saying that if we're going to deal with this crisis, we're not going to do it alone. we must work together, we must achieve synergy, we must strengthen our community, we must have more union to be effective in the fight against the crisis. mr minister, you cannot have more community, a stronger european union for less money. it's just not possible. earlier, both mp kasoulides and the polish prime minister spoke about this in bucharest at the european people's party congress. more union means more money. how should this money be spent? president barroso has spoken about this. the eu budget is an investment budget that can help us create more jobs, growth, and make up for the backlog and delays that are particularly affecting new members of the european union, countries like poland. and poland is an example of how effectively that money can be used. how european support can generate growth, jobs and support the european economy not just the polish economy, but the european economy. i therefore appeal to the minister (and on your behalf to president van rompuy): there is no more room for cuts! and i would like to appeal to president barroso, congratulating him on his excellent speech today, to defend with the same vigour, determination and consistency this budget that the commission has presented - a good budget - at the summit tomorrow and the day after. thank you, sir.
in writing. – the battle over the figures on the eu’s long-term budget for 2014-2020 is heating up ahead of the council summit of 22nd and 23rd of november, which is focused solely on the mff. while the european commission proposed a eur 1.025 billion budget for the next seven-year period, the latest proposal from the council, issued by herman van rompuy, suggested cutting the commission proposal by eur 80 billion. the european parliament has made its position clear on many occasions. we want a long-term budget that will allow growth, investment, flexibility and transparency, in order to allow the eu to tackle future challenges and unforeseen needs. a reduced budget will only put eu policies in jeopardy and damage the eu in the long run. on the eve of the council meeting i wish to remind the council that the parliament’s approval is needed for any agreement on the mff, and we will be ready to use our veto if our position is not taken into consideration. lastly, i should like to underline to the council that failing to compromise and reach an agreement on the mff sends bad signals to foreign investors, to economic markets, and certainly to eu citizens whose socio-economic interests are at stake.
in writing. can you have more for less? no, you can't. we cannot have more europe with less multiannual budget. understandably, in times of financial and economic crisis, public money seems to be more difficult to come by. but it's worth remembering that the greatness of politicians is often measured by their ability to look beyond the horizon of the next election. the size of the current leaders of the member states will therefore be measured by their potential ability to reach an acceptable compromise. net payers should explain to their constituents why it is worth investing in cohesion policy. the common market should not be, and is not, the only successful venture of the european union. you can't just pick the raisins out of a cake and not care about the rest. failure to compromise will hurt everyone. and the net payers too. all those who fear the possibility of a veto should consider whether a no-deal would hurt the interests and expectations of their own constituents. i believe that the values on which the european union is built - solidarity, dignity, freedom - will prove stronger than the short-term interests of some political parties. the strength of the european project has always been that it appealed to values that were not just material. while funds are essential to increase cohesion, something worse than cutting the budget would be the feeling that we have lost the solidarity that is the envy of the world.
in writing. i believe that reaching a compromise on the new multiannual financial framework is the most serious challenge facing europe today. the economic, political and social costs of not implementing the budget are difficult to estimate, but would certainly be enormous. therefore, all parties should be prepared to make concessions and actively seek to break the deadlock. in seeking a compromise, solutions that least affect cohesion policy should be encouraged, as cohesion policy is a key instrument for promoting growth and jobs, which is what europe needs most. i also believe that in times of economic difficulties, positive signals are particularly important. the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework is a hope for stability, a possibility for long-term planning and an opportunity to increase citizens' trust in the european institutions. it is also, in my view, the only way to overcome the economic difficulties and return to growth.
in writing. the state of negotiations on the 2014-20 mff should be of concern to all those concerned about eu growth, employment, cohesion and the fair distribution of resources. first, the deepening of cuts in cohesion policy. i fail to understand why the council consistently discriminates against this expenditure, despite its unquestionable merits in promoting investment and growth in the regions most in need. secondly, the proposed cuts in the common agricultural policy (cap) call into question the rationale for introducing new burdens on farmers. if we want to require them to follow advanced greening practices, we must also ensure that the subsidies associated with these practices are at a sufficiently high level. otherwise, we will create a situation where farmers may lose the incentive to meet any environmental criteria in exchange for decreasing direct support. thirdly, the proposed cuts in the second pillar of the cap are unacceptable. rural areas across europe urgently need funds for development, not just for agricultural production or environmental protection. the second pillar of the cap is open to all rural dwellers who need modernised infrastructure, specialised healthcare, investment in education, recreation, tourism or sport. all of this is necessary to stem the unfavourable trend of rural-to-urban migration. in the light of the above, parliament should strongly oppose any cuts in these budgetary areas.
thank you very much. thank you. madam president! the original shape of the report on shale gas extraction by amendment has been completely distorted, indicating the real purpose of the regulation. development, economic growth, energy security, all of which could be an opportunity for many countries in the european union, will be blocked as a result of today's decision. all this is happening under the banner of deeper european integration and more europe within europe. at the same time, as part of the programme for the exploitation of shale gas in the united states, the price of this raw material for consumers has fallen to 70 us dollars per 1000 m3, while we in europe have to pay almost 8 times more to russia, which is the only beneficiary of this abnormal situation. the final shape of the report is an attack on the sovereignty and security of individual countries, which can never be agreed.
today is the day when we have rid ourselves of our illusions, and especially those who thought that the european parliament could bring something good to the table. it is clear from what you have said that this report will be used for. i therefore call on all colleagues who have good intentions and want poland and other countries to take advantage of the opportunity to do so not to agree to any further regulations in this respect. that is why i abstained from this vote, to show that this is not a matter for the european parliament, that this is a matter for the nation states, for the governments, and it should be left to them. the result of today's vote will be: delaying the competitiveness of european shale extraction (the united states will be ahead even more), delaying the possibility of generating income from shale in poland and other european countries (others will do it faster), and as a result we are left behind, we have no positive results, we let the european parliament in with all the possible ideologies and nonsense that the european left is saying against the development opportunities of those countries that have a chance to shale ahead of them.
madam president! i was strongly opposed to the final version of this report, i voted wrong. i voted yes, and i hereby resign. i was, am and will be against it, especially since a number of amendments - one might say - have torn the teeth out of this report. i think we're dealing with a complete misunderstanding here. i don't want to go into the functioning of the nuclear energy lobby or the gazprom lobby or any other pressure group. i have the impression that there is a complete lack of empathy and understanding on the part of many of my colleagues. i am deeply convinced that today's decision by the european parliament is very damaging and does not build the authority of the eu institutions.
thank you, madam president! it is probably because of a malfunction in the machine that my vote for mrs tzaveli's report was not recorded, because i am a strong supporter of exploiting the opportunity that shale gas offers both for the achievement of the objectives of a low-carbon economy and for economic development itself. i would like to say, however, that i do not discount the concerns that are associated with shale gas extraction and in particular with hydraulic fracturing, as mentioned in the report by mr sonika. i am aware that there are concerns and perhaps even real dangers, and therefore it is good if the extraction of gas is carried out in compliance with high environmental standards. i do not agree with the views of my colleagues in the conservative group, because mr sonik's report clearly states in paragraph 2 that the responsibility for shale gas extraction and energy matters lies with the member states and not with the european union. and it's a good thing the moratorium was overturned. and for anyone who's concerned or curious about shale gas extraction, i invite you to an exhibition that's currently underway, where you can learn about the facts, not the dangers or the myths. thank you, sir.
today the european parliament issued two contradictory messages: 'yes' for shale gas in the report by niki tzaveli and 'no' for shale gas in the report by bogusław sonik. it's strange the behaviour of this part of the house that is doing everything to make europe weaker economically and energy-wise. it is strange that the part of the house which voted against the niki tzaveli report is violating the principles of energy solidarity in europe, it is also violating the principles of european competitiveness. europe will become competitive when it has access to cheap, self-sufficient, independent energy resources. the united states was stronger then, even stronger than before, when it went from being a net importer of gas to being a net exporter of gas to the world, thanks to its own shale gas resources. for these reasons, the report by niki tzaveli should have been supported. i am proud that niki tzavela was able to present her report in poland at a special seminar organised by solidarity poland and that it has successfully opened the way to the industrial exploitation of shale gas in europe. i hope so.
madam president! the committee on petitions is a very important tool for citizens to bring to the attention of the european institutions a number of administrative irregularities in the member states. every year, an increasing number of complaints are received by parliament from poland - also through members - with the most striking being those concerning cases of clear discrimination by the institutions of other countries. i would like to draw attention here to the activities of the german office for children and youth, whose policy on custody is highly controversial. i am glad that the committee on petitions is taking an active part in this problem and i hope that it will be resolved in a positive way. a large number of petitions concern matters relating to the functioning of the internal market, which also shows the importance of our commitment to systematically improving its functioning and raising the level of protection of citizens. i support the call for decisive action on waste management, including the prevention of illegal landfills in border areas. i accept the report.
madam president! the committee on petitions is in fact a transmission belt for petitions, complaints and problems of citizens, taxpayers and voters in the countries of the european union to the union as such. it is a very important issue indeed: let me remind you of the last term of office, when very important political issues such as nordstream (the northern gas pipeline) and the withdrawal of the concession to catholic radio stations in spain were followed up, but also issues concerning ordinary citizens, such as the additional taxation of cars imported from abroad to poland. last year, the number of cases that go to this committee increased, which is a good sign. i hope that she will continue to deal with the jugendamt, the german office which unfortunately very often makes controversial decisions concerning children from mixed marriages: polish-german, french-german or italian-german.
in writing. - tonio borg has repeatedly expressed radical views in public statements on abortion and homosexual relationships. particularly disturbing was his statement that maltese law should only protect those who 'deserve it' - the context of which was the debate on the right of same-sex couples to apply for social housing. added to this is the radical opposition to divorce, which was recently put to a referendum in malta. tonio borg is a candidate for commissioner of health. this is a sphere of public activity that is particularly vulnerable to the influence of the candidate's personal beliefs. this is particularly true of borg's beliefs on abortion and homosexuals. yes, abortion is regulated by the legal systems of the member states. on the other hand, the european commission and its individual members can create the climate for enforcing this right. in poland, the anti-abortion law is extremely restrictive. worse still, in many cases where abortion is permitted, it is actually made difficult or impossible. therefore, the assumption of the post of health commissioner by a radical anti-abortionist should be welcomed with concern. the same is true of homosexuals. first of all, i'm talking about the access of same-sex partners to information about their partner's health. in many member states, this practice is not in line with the standards of respect for human dignity. in view of the above, i have decided to vote against the appointment of mr. tonio borg as commissioner.
in writing. − in the context of the 2012 budgetary procedure, the european parliament approved the draft amending budget allocating the union's solidarity funds to help the emilia-romagna region of italy, which was hit by the earthquake in may this year. despite the difficult negotiations on the eu budget in 2012 and 2013, the approval of the draft amending budget by the ep and the eu council shows that the solidarity dimension of the union budget remains strong. poland also received support from the solidarity fund following the 2011 floods, amounting to eur 105,5 million, which was to be allocated in particular to the reconstruction of infrastructure.
in writing. - in may this year, italy was struck by a great tragedy, which requires that we take appropriate steps to help and show solidarity. we cannot ignore the problems of the southern member state, which is still reeling from the effects of a strong earthquake. the positive response to italy's request for assistance is obvious and the need to mobilise the european union solidarity fund is urgent. many people lost their homes, but it is also important to remember that the earthquake affected the most industrialized areas, which generate the largest part of italian gdp. northern italy will have to deal with the negative effects of this natural disaster for a long time to come. it will affect the whole country's economy, and the union will feel it too. i therefore hope that the proposed aid of over 670 million euros will help to repair the damage done to agriculture, infrastructure and other important sectors of the italian economy and, therefore, of our common european economy.
in writing. − the significant increase in imports of processed poultrymeat is having a negative impact on the interests of domestic producers. in addition, the imported products often have a low meat content, which obviously affects their quality. in seeking to develop favourable agreements with brazil and thailand and other countries, we must take account of european food businesses, whose activities also have a direct impact on the economic conditions of the member states. i am pleased that, thanks to the commission's commitment, mutually satisfactory adjustments have been agreed to compensate for the increase in the related duties. while supporting all measures to improve consumer protection, i fully support the demands to close loopholes and other existing forms of circumvention. in support of the recommendation, i agree to the agreements.
in writing. - the legal loopholes that allowed the circumvention of the rules on the import of processed poultrymeat should be closed. this is the purpose of the international trade commission's regulation, the preparation of which was preceded by agreements with the leading poultry suppliers to our market brazil and thailand. the increase in rates is necessary to reduce the negative consequences of the increase in imports of processed poultrymeat into our market. the tariff quota provided for in the agreement, which is intended to compensate for the increase in the duties imposed primarily on the two largest exporters, will limit the negative effects of the changes for both countries and will guarantee the continuation of good trade cooperation with both brazil and thailand. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fishery products, which would allow the commission to take part in the negotiations on the common organisation of the market in fishery products.
in writing. - the need for these changes is obvious, it stabilises the relations between the eu and tel aviv, which is very much needed now.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the reduction of russian timber export tariffs is also a clear benefit for polish importers. the rate for particularly desirable spruce wood will now be 13%, which is almost half the reduction in the duty applicable outside the quota. a significant, though smaller, reduction will also cover the export duty on pine. i am very pleased that the protocol on the technical conditions for managing the quotas has been concluded. it also provides for specific consultation and dispute settlement procedures, which is an important safeguard for trade with countries such as russia and strengthens the stability of mutual economic relations. i look forward to a favourable and unhindered partnership between moscow and the union in the trade of these raw materials, especially with regard to russia's neighbouring countries. i consent to the conclusion of the agreement by the council.
in writing. − i have regularly stressed that the proper transposition of eu law into national legal systems is crucial for the proper and effective functioning of the single market, which is why i supported the report. unfortunately, for many directives, member states do not meet the implementation deadlines or implement eu law incorrectly. and that's why good, effective law can't work. i think it is absolutely necessary to have more ambitious implementation of the rules. the european commission has the means to motivate member states to implement eu law efficiently, and it must apply them. the procedure before the court of justice of the eu is one such tool and should be used by the commission to ensure the timely and correct transposition of eu legislation by member states, especially with regard to environmental matters, which are one of the most vulnerable policy areas. i fully agree that national courts in the member states play a huge role in the application of eu law and that training for judges, lawyers and civil servants should be stepped up. it should also be stressed that citizens as complainants play a key role. they are the ones who suffer most from the non-implementation or ineffective implementation of eu legislation.
in writing. − as every year, the legal affairs committee has prepared a report on monitoring the implementation of eu law. we always call on the member states to transpose eu legislation into national law with due care and in a timely manner. this is not an easy process, we know, but we also have to realise that delays in implementing eu law are holding back the development of the single market, preventing citizens and businesses from doing business. we also call on the commission to be more diligent in its role as guardian of the treaties and to strongly criticise the member states for their shortcomings in this area. the need to remind the commission and the member states of their responsibilities is clearly still very much in evidence, which is why i fully support this report.
in writing. − despite my appreciation for the enormous effort made by the rapporteur in working on the report and negotiating the necessary compromises, i was unfortunately unable to support the final version of this report. it contains, inter alia, a general prohibition on fracking in 'particularly sensitive areas', which risks being interpreted very broadly. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the levying of the levy on the extraction of coal by the united kingdom would have been justified by the fact that the levy was not imposed on the extraction of coal by the united kingdom. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment protection of natural resources is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. i could not support a report that would be an argument for the european commission in its unrelenting drive to expand the so-called 'green legislation' which is already having a negative impact on the competitiveness of our industries, especially in countries like poland.
in writing. − the environmental impact of shale gas extraction has been of considerable interest in poland for several months, although we are still not sure about the actual resources of this raw material. there was a lot of emotion about the fourth amendment and the section 34 in the section that deals with the prohibition of coal mining in the coal mining areas. since a majority was obtained to reject the preventive ban on hydraulic flushing, the whole report deserves support. the problem is that this is an own-initiative report, and therefore of little legislative significance.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mr sonik because we cannot afford to lose the benefits of using shale gas. it is not just about reducing emissions and having a good economic outlook. the issue of the conversion of energy sources should be a key one. the shale could be a step toward our energy independence. at the same time, i am aware that there may be concerns about the hydraulic fracturing technology used in shale gas extraction. economic considerations and energy security in this case must clearly go hand in hand with the fulfilment of high environmental standards.
in writing. − europe is seeking to reduce co2 emissions substantially, and shale gas and other unconventional gas sources are now a potential, important and new source of supply in europe and its neighbours. the exploitation of shale gas is a huge opportunity for the european economy. just look at the united states, where shale gas has caused a real economic revolution, and the places where it is found have been called the real eldorado. i understand all the concerns about the whole fracking process and its possible negative impact on the environment and people. but consider this argument: if the united states, with over 150 billion cubic meters of gas produced annually, had a negative impact on the people and the environment, it would have been noticed. the lawyers there would have their hands full when it comes to enforcing civil damages. moreover, technological advances are now immense, and safe methods of extraction are being developed all the time. shale gas is a great opportunity and immeasurable benefits for my country poland and europe, so i can't imagine not taking this opportunity. that is why i voted in favour of the report by mr bogusław sonik.
in writing. - i am strongly in favour of shale gas extraction; i believe that regulation in this area is unnecessary and even harmful. it could limit gas extraction, which would be detrimental to the economies of many eu countries. in this context, i find amendment no 34 particularly worrying. the large-scale extraction of shale gas and shale oil will contribute to the diversification of energy sources in the european union. the commission considers that the measures under investigation are imputable to the state and that the commission has not established that the measures under investigation constitute state aid. my concerns about the shale gas regulation contained in the report led me to abstain.
in writing. - the exploitation of shale gas is a hotly debated issue. on the one hand, we can see the success of shale gas development in the united states. this technology is transforming the united states from an importer into an exporter of fossil fuels. on the other hand, environmental organisations report on the environmental risks of hydraulic fracturing. shale gas is a huge hope in the countries where it is found. they are particularly high in countries whose economies are dependent on imported natural gas. they are therefore particularly sensitive to energy security issues. the exploitation of shale gas is seen not only as an opportunity for economic development, but also as an opportunity to increase energy security. one of those countries is poland. that's why shale gas is so close to my heart. i'm not one of those people who's blinded by the sight of a gas eldorado. on the other hand, i think that shale gas exploitation cannot be abandoned. we have to give fracking technology a chance. at the present state of knowledge, it cannot be categorically dismissed as harmful to the environment. at the same time, the results of scientific research in this area should be continuously monitored. in view of the above, i decided to vote in favour of the report on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction.
in writing. - i do not support the report on the environmental impact of shale gas and oil extraction. there are a few important prerequisites. the individual report entries on the proposed changes to individual eu directives are a major problem. so, the rejection of the amendment calling for a moratorium won't change much here. the report is unacceptable because it prohibits fracking in coal and drinking water sites, calls for a change in the emissions trading system to charge co2 emissions to gas extraction, and suggests that gas extraction is contrary to eu climate policy. the possible and likely effects of implementing the report's recommendations will be to raise the cost of investments to the limits of their viability in the eu.
in writing. - despite the heated debate in the european parliament, mr sonika's report seeks to promote a balanced approach to shale gas extraction. importantly, the parliament's position emphasises the right of member states to exploit their own natural resources and the fact that shale gas, extracted within the appropriate regulatory and legal framework, has the potential to become a new, important source of energy in europe (also in the form of lng). the proposal for a european moratorium on shale gas extraction was unacceptable, and was rightly rejected by the european parliament.
in writing. − despite my appreciation for the enormous effort made by the rapporteur in working on the report and negotiating the necessary compromises, i was unfortunately unable to endorse the final version of the report. it contains, inter alia, a general prohibition on fracking in 'particularly sensitive' areas, which risks being interpreted very broadly. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the levying of the levy on the extraction of coal by the united kingdom would have been justified by the fact that the levy was not imposed on the extraction of coal by the united kingdom. the commission has already, at the level of the environment committee, reworded the vast majority of the rapporteur's sensible proposals, rejected amendments designed to create conditions for the exploration and exploitation of unconventional fossil fuels, and adopted a number of inconsistent and unfortunately sometimes absurd paragraphs, such as the statement that shale gas extraction is a threat to developing countries. i could not support a report which would be an argument for the european commission in its unrelenting drive to extend the so-called 'green legislation' which is already having a negative impact on the competitiveness of our industries, especially in countries such as poland.
in writing. - i strongly supported the report by mrs niki tzaveli. it has done a very valuable and difficult job, which has resulted in the adoption, at the level of the parliament's committee on industry, energy and research, of a report which is reasonable, balanced and, above all, respects the right of each member state to seek and exploit the sources of energy suitable for it. mrs. tzavela has managed to defend herself against the green propaganda covering the interests of the monopolists in the conventional gas and nuclear energy markets. congratulations and thank you.
in writing. - the report on industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil extraction is supported by several important arguments. shale gas may prove to be very important in the light of the growing demand for gas imports in the eu and its significant potential should therefore be highlighted. the decision on the composition of the energy mix is a matter for the member states and the principle of subsidiarity should therefore be strictly applied. eu environmental legislation sets out certain minimum standards which may need to be improved in the light of large-scale commercial exploitation. all these measures contribute to increasing energy independence and security. they can also help to lower energy prices for citizens, as has been the case in the us.
in writing. − a report prepared by the committee on industry, research and energy highlights the positive aspects and potential of shale gas. referring in particular to the shale revolution that has taken place in the united states, it calls on the european union to make full use of the opportunities created by the increased role of unconventional energy sources in global energy markets. the commission notes that the us shale gas market is characterised by a high level of supply and demand, and that the us shale gas market is characterised by a high level of supply and demand. the report presents a holistic approach, also focusing on the industrial and economic aspects of shale gas, the need to implement appropriate licensing arrangements, adequate public engagement and the exchange of best practices.
in writing. the report adopted today by the european parliament by niki tzaveli, mep from the epp group and member of the committee on industry and energy, gives the green light to the development of unconventional gas extraction in the eu. it highlights the clear economic and social benefits for europe of a new technology that has been spectacularly successful in the us, providing cheap gas, economic development and independence from external imports. i'll just remind you that thanks to the shale revolution, the united states has gone from being an importer of natural gas to an exporter of natural gas in just a few short years. its price on the local market is 70 dollars per 1000 cubic meters, europe is paying russia for the same amount of gas today, depending on the country, at least, more than 8 times more. the report by mr bogusław sonik of the ppe group, member of the ep environment committee, was adopted by a majority of 70 votes, but it gives the sector a de facto green light and is unfavourable to polish interests. this is a very bad signal for the industry, which is the one that most of all dislikes, of course, regulatory ambiguity and uncertainty. the balance is still unfavourable for unconventional gas. in times of crisis, the eu should deregulate and curb unnecessary legislation, simplify and facilitate new investment and economic development
the european parliament is the guardian of the budgetary commitments of the european union. that is why, during the conciliation procedure, we could not agree to start talks on the 2013 budget, when the eu's coffers for the current year are empty. member states must first agree to amend the eu budget for 2012 by an additional €9 billion. this is in the interests of the member states, because this money will be returned to them in the form of reimbursement of funds for investments already made in the regions under cohesion policy. they will also be given to entrepreneurs and researchers, and to national executive agencies that manage, for example, erasmus grants for students. solving the deficit problem in 2012 will allow us to resume budgetary negotiations for next year 2013. however, it must be made clear that without an additional contribution from national budgets, the eu's institutional credibility will be undermined and the european commission may be forced to face possible legal consequences.
thank you, mr president! i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! i would also like to begin by thanking mrs maria eleni kopp for the preparation of this comprehensive and balanced report. in my view, one of the key factors in the effectiveness of enlargement policy is the effectiveness of the instruments of pre-accession assistance. like the rapporteur, i welcome the european commission's proposal on the future shape of the instrument for preaccession assistance, in particular the increase of the financial support by more than 7%, the proposal to increase the diversification of aid tailored to the needs of the beneficiary country and the award of a prize for good performance. i believe that these changes will help to raise the level of support, among others, for the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises which are crucial for development... (the president cut the speaker off)
thank you very much, mr president, for finally allowing me to speak. mr president, minister, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. a common security and defence policy sounds good. and it is right that it sounds like that, but i think we all realise that - because listening to colleagues from different political groups, i get the impression that in most cases we have a common view - that this policy, the common security and defence policy, is still a great challenge today, because firstly, the world is dangerous, and secondly, we are not yet fully implementing it. and it is regrettable to say that not all the countries of the european union, including one of the largest countries in the european union, participate in the development of the common security and defence policy. i regret to admit it. but it is still a good thing that the ministers are meeting, it is a good thing that the european council on security and defence policy is scheduled for next year. it is good that the ministers of almost all the major countries of the european union are making some proposals for a common security and defence policy. these proposals also come from our lips from the european parliament and i hope that both the leaders of the member states and the european commission and the high representative will listen to our proposals, because we are one of the bodies that support the common security and defence policy.
well, i just wanted to say thank you. i wanted to agree with the theses of the material which was presented at the beginning of this debate today, but i would like to draw attention to the fact that we are not making enough progress in europe in terms of a common security and defence policy. there are two main reasons for this unfortunate phenomenon. the first reason is that the group of states remains reluctant to engage in joint european security and defence endeavours. these countries believe that nato is the only thing europe needs. i think that's a wrong opinion. the second reason is that there is not enough impact in the creation of joint capacities. i'm thinking here mainly about the potential of air transport, the aerial refuelling capability, the necessary fleet of unmanned aircraft. i would like to draw attention to the fact that we have too many words and not enough actions.
ladies and gentlemen! i had the opportunity to go to kazakhstan twice, to monitor human rights issues. i think that the agreement is necessary because trade and economic relations need to be regulated. but we must never forget that the opposition has a big problem today. vladimir kozlov was sentenced to 7 years in prison for fighting for the rights of workers who died in the city of zangaozen. in comparison, the militiamen who fired the gun received five years in prison. today we learned that the prosecutor wants to shut down all independent media: 23 news websites, tv channels and websites. i think we need to adopt certain amendments today to suggest in this report that we are fighting for human rights. therefore, i call on the kazakh authorities, and also on the catherine ashton administration, to take the necessary steps to support the activities of independent media and i make a very strong appeal to us to accept this agreement, but with amendments that will guarantee respect for human rights in kazakhstan.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to express my appreciation for the open and interesting exchanges we had on kazakhstan today. this debate has been very useful and helps the european union to inform its policy on kazakhstan. relations between the european union and kazakhstan are at a turning point since the joint decision to enhance bilateral relations in 2009 and the start of the negotiations for a new pca agreement in 2011. kazakhstan is one of the key partners of the european union in central asia and with the future deepening of the eu’s cooperation with kazakhstan, there is a need for such open debates and analyses of the eu’s policies towards kazakhstan. the european union has been supporting the reform process in kazakhstan both in the political and economic spheres since 2007. we have not only been looking at economic development and business competitiveness in kazakhstan but also concentrating on good governance and the rule of law. in parallel, the european union has been dedicating considerable efforts to the development of civil society as well as engaging on human rights and rule of law issues with kazakhstan. this approach of representing the eu’s interests in seeing progress in political reforms and in deepening our economic engagement with kazakhstan is a balanced one. this is why we have been surprised and are concerned by the initiative taken by the almati prosecutor-general’s office in declaring the alta party and people’s friend movement as extremists along with eight independent newspapers and 23 internet outlets and banning them. of course the european union supports efforts to combat extremism and terrorist activities. however, combating extremists should not be used to justify restricting human rights. human rights and the respect for the rule of law are best secured through open dialogue, political pluralism and a vibrant civil society. you can be sure that i will pass on your comments and your advice to the high representative/vice-president who will make a visit to kazakhstan next week and remains as committed as ever to ensuring that this partnership develops in a way that promotes both economic development and human rights commitments.
in writing. we all want kazakhstan to become a stable democratic country, so that nothing stands in the way of strengthening our economic relations. i am pleased that kazakhstan is showing the political will and commitment to further deepen its partnership with the eu. the human rights situation is dead. human rights are not negotiable in the european union. respect for freedom, democracy and human rights is therefore the basis for deepening relations between third countries and the eu. in december this year, i organized a seminar on the trials of opposition activists in connection with the december events in the city of żangaözen. i have been hearing with concern about the worsening human rights situation in kazakhstan. in the wake of the resolution, i therefore call on the kazakh authorities to release political prisoners and to commit to fully bringing their legal system into line with international standards. all the recommendations of the resolution are key and necessary for the start of negotiations on an eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement. human rights and democratic principles require the introduction of specific, measurable, achievable, time-bound objectives to enhance respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights and the rule of law. our resolution contains the first set of such objectives. now it's up to the kazakh authorities to act.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the multiannual plan for the conservation of baltic salmon is a very important element of the management of marine resources in the context of the common fisheries policy. i must refer to the role of the multiannual management plans and the impasse in the council which blocks their implementation. the regulation provides for a comprehensive approach to the protection of salmon in the baltic sea, covering new areas and issues not covered by the common fisheries policy. i would like to mention here that a wide-ranging consultation of stakeholders has taken place. because of time constraints, i'm going to focus on just a few. one of the main issues covered in this report is recreational fishing, which is still unregulated and has a significant impact on the state of the stocks. the lack of regulation has led to the uncontrolled growth of recreational fisheries in some countries, and the introduction of specific names for vessels, such as service vessels, has put them out of control, contributing to the growth of unreported catches of baltic salmon. there are also known cases where recreational fisheries have used advanced fishing gear such as trawls. member states have not complied with their obligations to provide adequate information on catches, which has resulted in a poor estimate of the stock of salmon in the baltic sea. the second issue not covered by the existing regulations is the impact of predators on the baltic salmon population. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, this report shall specify the studies to be carried out in order to determine dependencies and to assess the resources correctly. another important issue is the reproduction of baltic salmon. in the current situation, we are facing a decline in salmon populations, and trying to establish rigid limits to the reproductive potential is not a good solution, because it can contribute to further decline in the population. the possibility of a flexible method of fishing adapted to the current state of the stock should be maintained. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the current common fisheries policy has not been a success, but rather a victim of the environment, its resources, fishermen and the coastal community. the multiannual conservation plans and, above all, the new common fisheries policy, are intended to be a solution to the current, diametrically opposed situation. this is the only way out of the crisis, which should be accepted by the commission, the council and the european parliament. only then will we be able to make a difference. now, at this point, i would like to ask the council whether we will have the chance to proceed further with the codecision procedure. will the blockade which the council is currently imposing on parliament in individual agreements continue? unfortunately, we don't have that chance, because the board has probably already made a decision and it's just not there.
thank you, mr. chairman! i'm not going to let you get away with this. first of all, i would like to thank mr grubarczyk for his very good cooperation on the report on the multiannual plan for baltic salmon stocks. the beginnings of the work were not easy, however. unfortunately, a number of solutions proposed by the european commission have not been implemented in many places. a lot of work has gone into making this regulation comprehensive and fully enforceable for the benefit of fish and fishermen. the content of the commission's proposal, which we have been waiting for for a long time, was not the basis for a constructive exchange of views - unfortunately, this regulation will have a huge impact on salmon fisheries. fortunately, despite the divisions, we were able to work together to produce a good document and to reach a strong compromise, which has not led to any further amendments being tabled in this plenary session. i congratulate you, mr. ambassador! i would like to draw your attention to a few points. the most important thing for me is the matter of fishing. fortunately, the footage of the fishermen in a very bad light has been removed. the main focus now is to obtain better quality, genetically safer, relay material and to eliminate improperly relayed material. only poorly managed fisheries can have a negative impact on the genetic diversity of the baltic salmon population. and let's look at the fact that without the restorative fisheries in many rivers, we wouldn't have salmon at all. it is also pleased that 20% of all landings are inspected. i think that this provision, which is in line with regulation 1224/2009 establishing a common control system to ensure compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy, is a very good compromise. the question of including both industrial and recreational fisheries in the plan has been taken into account by mr grabarczyk, and i am very pleased about that. congratulations again, mr. ambassador! i'm going to the hospital. thank you, sir.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. to return to your statement on predators, it was not our intention - and it is not my intention - to force the commission to take any action. as you said, 20% of the salmon catch is recreational and you know that. what we want is for you or the commission to know what percentage of the stock is being taken by predators. this is a fundamental issue in the context of estimating them and determining how much of this fish we actually have. i'm glad we agree on that. but what is more important for us, for me, is the future of this report. will it, like other management plans, be put into the proverbial bin or freezer, or will we be able to implement and implement it and pass it on to the individual countries? i have serious doubts about this, because as you said at the beginning, you are pleased that the subject of fisheries is attracting an increasing number of members i have to say that the council's interest is inversely proportional to the interest of the members. and this one's dead. i would like to thank the commissioner and all the rapporteurs for their work and for their contribution to my report. i also thank mr walesa for his warm words and i ask that you support this directive tomorrow. thank you very much. thank you.
i am very concerned about the brutal practice of decapitating sharks on the decks of ships and dumping their carcasses into the sea. this practice is a huge cruelty, a waste, and an action that directly threatens many rare species of sharks. that is why i voted in favour of the european commission's proposal to strengthen the eu's ban on the removal of shark fins from ships without any exceptions. i voted against these amendments, which would have widened the existing loopholes in the prohibition of retaliation, and which proposed the use of costly and notoriously ineffective methods. the natural fin policy has been in place and tested for a long time in many countries, such as the usa and australia, and most eu member states do not allow the practice of shark fin removal on board ships. the union rules shall not allow for any derogation from that prohibition. thank you, sir.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! the enlargement process is not only an opportunity for further economic development in europe, but also, and perhaps above all, an opportunity to strengthen the security of the european peoples, especially in such a sensitive area as the balkans. these countries are making systematic progress in adapting their legislation to eu solutions. i hope that the others will soon follow croatia's example. i would also like to stress the need to continue to commit ourselves to the policy of enlargement to the east. the situation in ukraine is of particular importance to poland, as a large neighbouring country it has a huge influence on relations in the region. the new georgian government should also be actively encouraged to fully implement the declared continuation of the country's pro-european policy. i consider the support for enlargement expressed in the report and the efforts made to increase the level of public confidence in this idea to be highly desirable and fully in line with the interests of the citizens of the member states. i voted for the report.
armed conflict is a highly undesirable solution in any situation. on the middle east peace process, we have repeatedly supported the right of israel and palestine to coexist as independent states. we've also been very committed to the security of this inflammatory region. the current situation requires us to renew our call for an end to the use of force and for peace talks to resume. the continuing and murderous rocket attacks by hamas on israel must be strongly condemned. a similar position should be taken with regard to the illegal arming of palestinians from outside. faced with the need to defend its citizens, the government in tel aviv was forced to conduct counter-operations against palestinian aggression. in supporting this resolution, i am in favor of two independent and democratic states with jerusalem as their capital. i would like to express my solidarity with the people of israel, who are the victims of brutal aggression, and my disapproval of the actions of palestinian extremists. so i disagree with the call to end the blockade of gaza.
mr. chairman, please! i am sceptical of such very short-term attempts to create a common security and defence policy, because i have the impression that it is a ritual which is, in fact, far from a reality. in recent years, we have seen that on every major issue of foreign policy, the major countries in the european union have differed, sometimes in a diametrical way. it is the same today, and that is why i expressed my scepticism in voting for this report. i have the impression that today we do not need charms, we do not need slogans, a slogan about a common foreign policy, i am more open to thinking about a common defence policy.
closer and deeper community cooperation with kazakhstan is an opportunity for mutual benefit, particularly in view of its important role in world energy policy. as this country is in the orbit of russia's economic influence, for example through participation in the customs union, it is in our vital interest to take action to bring astana closer to europe. the partnership and cooperation agreement will create a comprehensive framework for mutual economic development. in parallel, the kazakh authorities should of course be encouraged to join the wto as soon as possible. however, the partnership must take into account issues such as the rule of law, good governance and democratisation, as these are the mechanisms on which european policy is based. the regulation of the status of the caspian sea is also of great importance in the context of kazakhstan, which also has implications for cooperation with other central asian states. in this field we should encourage the acceleration of the desired solution. i support the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! kazakhstan is one of the most important countries in the region, a country with huge resources. it is an important partner for the european union, for individual countries in the european union, and i note the economic progress that this country has made in the last two decades. i've been to kazakhstan seven times, i've had a lot of experience here, and i think that progress should be seen. of course, we must pay attention to human rights issues, these are important matters and it is the duty of the european parliament to do so, because - let us be clear - neither the council nor the commission will do it for us. and i would like to show that today kazakhstan has many formal agreements with russia, economic and political. it is worthwhile to attract kazakhstan to brussels more so that it is not only in the russian orbit of political and economic influence.
in writing. - once again, as representatives of european society, we must call for the rationalisation of fisheries policy. the data that predicts future resources is frightening. in the next few decades, with current fishing policies, we may see some fish species disappear altogether. as people who value the wealth of nature, who have the european economy at heart, but also the future generations, as conscious consumers, who make conscious choices in their everyday purchases, we must appeal to reason. the benefits we receive from nature are not infinite, which is why it is so important to take care of their sustainable use. attention should be paid to the practice of recreational fishing, which, as uncontrolled, contributes significantly to the decline of salmon populations. it is also necessary to introduce more regular and accurate checks on landings, as this is also where many irregularities occur.
in writing. i've been hearing about the cruel practice of shark finning. recently, my office has received a lot of applications from environmental organizations and individuals. i agree with their demands that this should be stopped as soon as possible and that the trade in raw materials, especially in the regions of south america, should be stopped. i support this resolution.
in writing. − european countries cannot afford to continue to finance unilateral emission reductions. there is no sign that the us, india or china will agree to follow europe's lead and make significant cuts in greenhouse gas emissions before the next climate conference. even the complete elimination of industrial emissions in the eu will not change the global trend, analysts predict, without the contribution of these countries. and there are still no rational signals as to whether this is a trend caused by human activity or whether it is natural climate change. i would ask the ep to reconsider its position. that's why i voted against the resolution. i am personally surprised that parliament can be against the exploitation of shale gas, which can bring about real emission reductions, and at the same time be in favour of further unilateral reductions, which will be strongly felt by european industry. it's time to think about where this policy is taking us.
in writing. − i am glad that this report clearly states that any european state that respects the values shared by the eu countries can apply for membership. judging by the growing economic strength of many central and eastern european member states, it is beyond a doubt that eu enlargement is a story of success. we have to go beyond what is often called enlargement fatigue and see the bigger picture: many of our neighbours have european aspirations and we should make an effort to facilitate their european dream. let us take ukraine, for example: it is unfair to take away the perspective of membership from ukraine, considering that a large majority of its citizens look very favourably on the eu.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? dear colleagues! i welcome the report by my greek colleague, mrs maria eleni koppa. welcomes the support for enlargement expressed in the report and calls for action to raise awareness and public confidence in the process. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of drawing our attention to the eastern partnership countries, in particular ukraine and georgia. both countries have recently held elections. in this respect, it is necessary to demonstrate to the new georgian government that we expect the full implementation of the declared pro-european policy. relations with ukraine are also of great importance. i hope that eu-ukraine relations will improve in the near future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution. it is repulsive that hamas has placed its rocket launchers in areas densely populated by civilians. it does this knowingly and thus places its civilian population at risk of israeli bombardment. but apart from hamas, the other perpetrator of violence is iran. it supplies hamas with the fajr-3 and the fajr-5 missiles that have brought israel’s major cities within range. it is very telling that a huge billboard hangs on an overpass of the niayesh highway in tehran with an illustration of a green missile on a launcher and a text in persian saying ‘destination tel aviv’. let us hope that the ceasefire lasts; but let us also remember that israel has the right to defend itself – both against hamas and against iran.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i abstained because i believe that palestinian membership of the united nations must be the result of negotiations and compromise with israel, not a vote.
in writing. - the current situation in gaza should not be read in isolation from the overall situation of the palestinians in the middle east. it is a community that is internally very divided and poor, focused on one goal: an attack on the state of israel. and that makes him a tool in the hands of egypt, iran, saudi arabia, syria, who are all eager to talk about attacking israel. that is why i am suspicious and distrustful of the reports about the lifting of the naval blockade of the gaza strip, especially in the context of the reports about the planned transport of missiles from iran. the account of two states with jerusalem as their capital is also completely unrealistic. this resolution will not change anything, because changes in the relationship between israel and palestine cannot be made painlessly. geopolitically and materially, the region is too small for israel's ambitions as an independent and sovereign state and for the independence aspirations of a divided and vengeful palestine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it is reassuring that the eu and nato, which are united by a strategic partnership reaffirmed at the chicago summit, are both active in a number of theatres, such as kosovo, afghanistan and the fight against piracy in the gulf of aden and the indian ocean. i would like to draw attention to the fact that external operations in recent years, whether in iraq, afghanistan or africa, including libya, have created a significant financial burden for those states that have participated (or are still participating) in these operations. this is particularly true for poland and my country’s military’s operations in afghanistan. for this reason, our common security and objective of securing peace should be met with a common approach, commitment and burden-sharing.
in writing. − the debate on european security and defence policy, and in particular the very meaning of its existence, has been going on for some time. is there a need to further develop and strengthen it in times of crisis, or is it not better to allocate the invested funds, for example, to building the eu's energy security by diversifying sources of supply? the european community is particularly important as it is already a member of nato, a strong and proven alliance. how can the policies of the north atlantic alliance and the csdp be reconciled? i did not find an answer in the resolution under discussion, and that is why i abstained during the vote.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that mutual defence and solidarity in case of aggression is the foundation of lasting peace in europe. i believe that nato is the ‘keystone in the arch’ in this regard, but the eu also has its role to play. twenty-one eu member states are also members of nato. but we also need to be prepared for situations involving non-nato eu member states or eu member states’ territories that are outside the north atlantic area and are therefore not covered by the washington treaty, or situations where no agreement on collective action has been reached within nato. i am glad that in the report, we have reminded member states of their unequivocal obligation of aid and assistance by all the means in their power if a member state is the victim of armed aggression on its territory. the definition of ‘aggression’ is also changing and i strongly agree with the statement that non-armed attacks, for instance cyber-attacks against critical infrastructure that are launched with the aim of causing severe damage and disruption to a member state and are identified as coming from an external entity, could fall under this category.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that cyber challenges, threats and attacks are growing at a dramatic pace and constitute a major threat to the security, defence, stability and competitiveness of the eu member states as well as our private sector. we all remember the three-week wave of massive cyber attacks waged against estonia in 2007. for this reason, eu institutions should develop their cyber security strategies and contingency plans to include in their risk analysis and crisis management plans the issue of cyber crisis management. this should be done in cooperation with nato and our ally, the united states. we should deepen eu-us mutual cooperation to counter cyber attacks and cybercrime, as these are threats which we can expect to increase in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it tackles a phenomenon which we are witnessing more and more. populations with deteriorating access to fresh water and foodstuffs as a result of natural catastrophes are forced to migrate, thereby overstretching the economic, social and administrative capabilities of already fragile regions or failing states and creating conflict. thus it is important that the eu, in its external action strategies, policies and instruments, takes into consideration the effects of natural disasters and changes in the climate on international security and further strengthens and develops existing instruments that can deliver humanitarian aid.
in writing. - despite the current crisis, we should not be guided solely by profit when concluding and negotiating trade agreements. as a global peacekeeper and defender of human rights, the european union should use its trade relations and market power to enforce human rights and respect democracy. economic support for developing countries is also essential, but not at any price. we cannot allow the trade agreements we make to contribute to the violation of human rights, freedom of speech and other civil liberties. and we contribute to that by supporting the economy that such a regime runs. it is necessary to find instruments that would allow the development of this country to be supported, while at the same time supporting the formation of civil society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i am very much in favour of parliament’s opinion on the ongoing negotiations and the matters which we believe should be addressed while negotiating the pca. these include: human rights; the rule of law and democratisation; education; trade and investment; and energy and transport. on economic cooperation, we encourage kazakhstan to take the necessary final steps for swift wto accession. it is important that we have noted that kazakhstan’s participation in the russian-led customs union and the eurasian economic union is not an obstacle to closer cooperation with the eu.
in writing. − the main objective of the reform of the eu's fisheries policy, the need to conserve sustainable, renewable fisheries and marine resources, as highlighted by the cypriot presidency, also applies to traditional and coastal fisheries. the joão ferreira report on the cfp in small-scale fisheries draws attention to these and other issues of great importance to the sector. traditional and coastal fisheries are specific, they face different problems than large fisheries, and therefore they should also be treated differently. its problems, potential and diversity should be more widely represented in the cfp, as the committee on fisheries points out. the conclusions and suggestions made in the report are hardly untrue. taking them into account by the european commission will make the cap more effective and responsive to the needs of traditional fishermen.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. small-scale fishing is often associated with strong ties to the local economy, social structure, culture and traditions of coastal towns and communities. i agree that small-scale fishing is prone to greater structural weaknesses and that this sector is more exposed to certain types of external shock and to rapid changes in the availability of resources. for this reason, i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to give greater consideration to small-scale fishing in the reform of the cfp. greater consideration is needed of its problems, but also of its potential.
in writing. - in preparation for the european parliament elections, we have adopted a position on the date of the elections. this is the beginning of a debate on the shape and context of the plebiscite that will take place in two years. in order to reflect the role of the parliament in the eyes of european voters, the ep's position calls for as many commissioners as possible to come from the european parliament. there are many similar ideas, such as the european people's party's proposal that european political parties nominate their candidates for the 2014 european commission president. such steps are important to strengthen citizens' engagement in policy at union level and thus to increase the democratic legitimacy of institutions in brussels.
in writing. − any decisions on elections must be taken at the level of the member states alone. the european parliament and the council should only be able to consult on the month and the year. there is no need to specify a date or change the month of the election. i do not agree with attempts to increase pan-european power; true democracy, its heartbeat is within the nation states. according to the survey, poles, germans, czechs and spaniards feel more like poles, germans, czechs and spaniards than eu citizens and 'europeans'. therefore, decisions on the choice must be taken at the level of the nation states. all of it. that is why i voted against the resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, this is not the first time we have criticised iran for its executions, but unless we take some serous action, the regime will continue this. some things should not be forgotten: in 1988, when mir-hossein mousavi was prime minister, 30 000 political prisoners were executed in cold blood in less than three months. most of them were from the people’s mujahedin of iran. this is one of the worst crimes in modern history that has not yet been brought to any international tribunal. i also wanted to draw attention to the difficult situation facing kurdish people. there are at least 23 kurdish political prisoners on death row, including ali afshari, houshang rezaei, behrouz alkhani and loghman moradi. it is time for us to take action. we must immediately stop all business with iran and impose full sanctions so that the regime realises that human rights violations will cost it dearly.
our resolution is also addressed to the people of iran. it is a signal from the very heart of the european union, the voice of the free world, to express concern and to ensure that they are remembered. but above all, it gives hope that freedom and civil liberties will come to iran in the future. our greatest strength is solidarity. that's how we've always had the most success in europe. and i would like to tell my french colleague that for several years, in this or another room of the european parliament, debates and resolutions have been held on freedom, liberty and civil rights in central and eastern europe, and finally that wall has fallen. we must not lose hope, nor should we lose confidence and faith in the meaning of these meetings and resolutions. our help is essential to all who suffer.
mr. chairman, please! mrs vergiat, with whom i never agree and we differ on almost everything, was right that it is possible to feel dissatisfied that we produce more documents and more resolutions and nothing comes of it. but that's our job, that's why we were chosen here, to produce these words, because these words are important. it's also important for those of us who are in iran today, and the danger of iran or the danger that iran brings is two-fold. the first is the internal threat, and that's what we're talking about today, which is that this regime is threatening its citizens and taking away their basic rights. and we should also remember the second threat, or the second problem with iran, which is that it is also a state that threatens the outside world, and we should remember that by fighting for the rights of iranians, we are actually fighting for the rights of all of us to live in peace and quiet.
mr president, i am also very appalled by these executions in iran. just between 22 october and 14 november this year 100 people were executed by the regime. we know there have been about 120 000 executions since 1979. no other country in the world has this rate of executions, and still we have a french delegation in parliament seeking to improve relations with iran. it is really controversial. political executions in iran today are carried out on the pretext of alleged drug crimes. most of the executed prisoners belong to the people’s mujahedin of iran, an organisation that has been pressing for democratic change for three decades. some of the pmoi prisoners currently sentenced to death are habibollah latifi, zanyar moradi, mostafa salimi and habib afshari.
in writing. human rights violations are commonplace in iran. the media and international organizations are constantly reporting on the mass executions that iran is becoming a specialist in, ranking second in the world in the execution of death penalty. we know that under sharia law, the death penalty is imposed for murder, adultery, rape, armed robbery, drug trafficking, and apostasy. they are carried out in public, including on minors, and the court proceedings often fail to meet any fair trial standards. one of the most recent high-profile cases was the hanging of 22 people for drug trafficking, there are also cases of political murders within the confines of prison walls, such as the recent murder of sattar beheshti. he was arrested on charges of cybercrime, which turned out to be blog posts commenting on the socio-political situation in the country. after a few days in custody, he died. the circumstances surrounding the death of the 35-year-old blogger are shrouded in mystery. we should therefore join the calls for the iranian authorities to provide a full explanation of the circumstances of these events. cases of suppression of freedom of speech in iran are commonplace. many opposition activists and journalists, including foreigners, are in prison. today, as the winner of the nobel peace prize, the european union has a special duty to speak out against human rights violations.
the author. - when we discuss the situation in burma, we cannot ignore the problems of the chinese minority. it is an estimated 1.5 million ethnic group living in the indian borderlands, almost exclusively christian. for decades, the population has been subjected to systematic religious persecution: citizens are tortured, arrested, and executed without charge, women are raped by soldiers, places of worship are destroyed, and clergy are harassed. the motive behind these criminal and reprehensible acts is to force the people to abandon christianity in favor of buddhism. the most dramatic disaster is the permanent famine, which is the main result of the treatment of this minority by the burmese authorities. 70% of the chinese population lives below the poverty line, with no chance of any help. i therefore call on the burmese authorities to stop the persecution and to start a humanitarian policy, in particular allowing aid organizations to operate, allowing un agencies to operate freely and allowing access to information. of course, this applies equally to the rohingya population in the neighbouring state of rakhine and to other persecuted communities. our financial support must take into account the need to ease the policy towards minorities. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the regime in burma is indeed one of the most brutal and you are right about the situation of christians in burma, about the behavior of buddhists, but i have the impression that the authorities there apply the typical for regimes and autocracies principles of 'division and rule' and that these religious divisions are used to a large extent to simply use it politically. mr. kelly, who spoke about the irish example, i think he will confirm that very often it is the case that the religious background is used politically, which means that we should not think about the ideological differences between buddhism and christianity because there are so many things in common, but understand the essence of this regime, which is based on division, on the imposition of groups on each other under the pretext of religious differences. the european union has a positive role to play in this context.
mr. chairman, please! on october 21, myanmar's rakhine state was hit by a new wave of violence that quickly spread to other regions of the country. in just one week, the death toll has risen to nearly 90. while the exact causes of the current conflict are not known, it is known that the unrest has displaced 28,000 people, bringing the total number of people displaced by the current and june conflicts to over 100,000. it should be added that the people in the refugee camps are in tragic conditions. the current humanitarian aid is inadequate, with a lack of food, water and medical care. the scale of the violence reflects years of tension, particularly between the buddhist community, which makes up the majority of the country's population, and the muslim community, which is a minority. given the current and previous bloody conflict in june this year, the burmese authorities must put an immediate end to the violence that is spreading in the country. in addition, the burmese government should implement a more effective integration policy at the source among all minorities, which would allow the ethnic-religious conflicts to be avoided. an important first step in this direction could be to allow the muslim minority to obtain burmese citizenship.
- thank you very much, mr president. it is a pity that you look at me when you speak of this one minute, which i always observe, mr president! it's hard to say. i would like to say that this resolution is very important because it deals with a problem which is not exotic but with people who come to european countries, although sometimes they go a little further. and that needs to be regulated. although, of course, you can ask yourself the question. these people were running away when gaddafi was there, when the fighting was going on. are they fleeing, or are they trying to emigrate now as well? so the question is, is the new government really what the libyans had in mind? it's on the sidelines of this important resolution that i have the honor of authoring. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the s&d group. libya is a hub for asylum seekers and refugees from africa, asia and the middle east. under gaddafi, they were exploited economically, forced into slave labor, persecuted, detained, arrested, tortured. their situation has not improved since the regime was overthrown and remains tragic: many foreigners, including pregnant women, infants and unaccompanied children, are detained by paramilitary groups and held indefinitely in inhumane and degrading conditions in detention centres or directly by armed forces. the libyan authorities must ensure that all foreign nationals, regardless of their immigration status, are protected from violence, exploitation, intimidation and abuse. it is necessary to ratify the convention relating to the status of refugees and to introduce national legislation on asylum and migrant workers that is consistent with international law.
mr. chairman, please! libya's geographical location and well-functioning economy have made it an attractive transit point for hundreds of thousands of migrants, mainly from sub-saharan africa. the international organization for migration estimates that as much as one-third of libya's total population is made up of migrants, most of whom are in the country without valid documents. these illegal residents, including refugees, have been subjected to exploitation, racial discrimination and even physical violence by the libyan population and authorities. the lack of any status or legal protection deprives them of the possibility to seek help from the appropriate institutions or courts. the revolutionary libyan government promised to address human rights and immigrant rights issues as soon as possible in line with international standards in this area. an important step forward would be for the libyan authorities to ratify the 1951 un convention relating to the status of refugees and to recognise other agreements on international human rights standards.
mr. chairman, please! the regulation we are going to adopt tomorrow in the plenary is extremely important because it shows how this very important article of the lisbon treaty on the common investment policy can be put into practice. i would like to thank all my colleagues who have worked on this directive - the european parliament, the socialists, the liberals, the greens, the ecr - mr moreir, mr de gucht, whose team has presented a very interesting concept. the greens have indeed presented a very far-reaching community regulation which clearly shifts the burden of safeguarding the interests of european investors to the european union. negotiations with the council have shown that this is not possible. nevertheless, the regulation we are voting on tomorrow is also a community regulation. it may not go as far as our green colleagues wanted, but it seems to me that it guarantees the most important elements. firstly, there will be a common system of protection for european investors, without any division between those who are better protected and those who are less so. and it's well known that some countries use these differences in protection for various kinds of political pressure. secondly, we know how - that is, until a general european system is established - these european agreements will operate. it is important that these european agreements be negotiated as soon as possible - here the commission, commissioner de gucht, has a major role - and i am convinced that soon - perhaps next year, i hope - the first such agreement will be the canadian agreement - we will have the first community agreements. it is extremely important that at this moment in the european union, when we think of the individual, we think of such very individual interests, that the community interest through this regulation is... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the debate on fundamental rights in the european union is both interesting and disturbing. the foundation of a common europe is the respect for human rights, such as dignity and freedom. it is necessary to guarantee equal treatment and respect for fundamental rights for all union citizens, not for selected social groups. the proper protection of the most vulnerable, including the elderly, the disabled and children, is particularly important. in the current debate on fundamental rights, those that are not considered fundamental are considered to be fundamental, for example, i find the concept of universal access to drugs, unconditional abortion or euthanasia pushed today as a form of death-worthy, controversial. in the european parliament we must promote christian values and reject what is not in the interests of humanity.
mr. chairman, please! it is almost universally known that women live longer than men. few people realize, however, that they are living in a worse physical and mental condition after retirement. the data presented in the report clearly show that women over 65 years of age are much more likely to suffer from diseases typical of older people. this is particularly important at a time when successive governments have decided to raise the retirement age without providing adequate health care, including preventive health care for the elderly. a wide-ranging action by both the union and the member states is needed to raise awareness of the need to prepare for old age. prevention, as a healthy and active lifestyle, leads to improved physical and mental health in old age. this action should be particularly strongly focused on women, who are doubly discriminated against by the economy, which offers them a lower salary, and by nature, which makes them much more vulnerable to the diseases typical of the elderly, as is clearly shown by the report by my colleague, roberta angelilli, whom i congratulate on her excellent report.
in writing. fellow students and colleagues! in europe, almost 24% of the population aged 50-64 are at risk of poverty, let alone access to healthcare, especially women living in rural areas. older women are more likely to be socially excluded and to be poor, usually because of lower accumulation of pension benefits. the reasons for this are also linked to the consequence of lower pay for women compared to men and to periodic reductions, for example during maternity or parental leave. when we talk about fighting poverty and social exclusion of women and demographic challenges, there is always one fundamental question that comes up, and i think that should be a priority in this debate. what about prevention, how do we highlight and promote its role? now that the year of older persons is over, the eu institutions should work with national and local partners to promote behavioural strategies in society that will promote active ageing. new screening programmes should be established which take into account existing input from different parties and partners and which remove numerous administrative barriers. we must remember that high quality healthcare should be a priority for all member states in the eu.
in writing. the draft resolution draws our attention to a very important social issue. it is a challenge to ensure that older people, and particularly women, are treated equally in access to health care and to create conditions that promote their full integration and active participation in society. unfortunately, older women are all too often in danger of social exclusion. this is due to both economic and social conditions. many older women are naturally single households, which negatively affects their financial situation. it's harder for them to maintain their homes and meet their health care needs at the same time. for many elderly women, access to medical services is also limited by the place where they live. this is especially true of older women in rural areas. it is therefore very good that the draft resolution recognises these dangers. with their awareness, we can't in any way belittle them. i therefore urge the commission to work closely with the governments of the member states to develop programmes to promote active ageing in women and thus to prevent their social exclusion on account of age and health.
madam president! the single market with over 500 million consumers is a huge asset for the european union. unfortunately, not fully utilized. once again, we are discussing the great potential of a digital single market covering all member states. the digital revolution is giving europe's economy the opportunity to generate growth and, in turn, create much-needed jobs. it is sufficient to mention that companies that fully exploit the potential of the internet create more than twice as many jobs as those that do not. so if we are now asking how we can help young people affected by unemployment, the answer is to create a digital single market. however, it is clear that the member states are still not willing to make the necessary changes. we cannot afford to continue to sit on the sidelines, we cannot afford to continue to have discussions that end with nothing but assurances that action is needed. dear heads of government, digitization is not as bad as it seems. it is a great opportunity for europe. it's time to act.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to point out that the report presented here is extremely important for the functioning of smes, because it deals with such important issues as exports, imports and investment outside the european single market. according to the european commission's statistics, there are currently over 23 million smes operating in the european market. this is particularly important as only one in four of these companies operate outside the eu. we should therefore develop a special strategy to encourage them to enter external markets more quickly. the two key aspects, which are well-developed in the report, are: first, access to information to better understand the markets of third countries. as part of this information, the european commission would have to develop special databases and reports to facilitate access to information for businesses as part of its activities. second, access to capital, so as to strengthen the opposition of enterprises as more competitive and innovative. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is a very important day the conclusion of many months of work on the creation of a unitary patent in the european union. our primary task is to ensure that the european union, our common market, has its rightful place in the global economy. in times of crisis when it is necessary to create a modern economy, to create new jobs, to make us all cope with the effects of this crisis, both economic and financial the preparation by the institutions of the european union of instruments that lead to this end is obvious and absolutely necessary. i'm excited to see us finalize the work on an instrument that will do that, that will push innovation, that will encourage the will to be innovative. the enormous costs that were and still are associated with patenting all sorts of things have meant that many very interesting, interesting ideas that could strengthen the european union's position in global trade, that could strengthen the european union's position as a strong player, have been sitting on the back burner. these are, of course, completely unacceptable situations. i talked to a lot of scientists in poland who said that it just doesn't pay to patent because the cost is so huge, and the likelihood that this invention will be used in industry is unfortunately very small. this work we're doing is supposed to make a difference. of course, we could have finished this job sooner, and that was the way it was going to be. it is fair to say that the six months' delay compared with the several dozen years of debate on the common patent is a minor one. it's true, six months is a slippery slope. but when i remember the enthusiasm with which we started working on the unitary patent during the polish presidency, it was a bit of a pity that because of the council's inappropriate behaviour or at least because of some kind of misunderstanding or quarrel that occurred there, we had to start looking for a compromise. this compromise was worked out. i think a special word of thanks here goes to mr cameron and our british colleagues for their ideas to try to change things up so that perhaps some british interests were better served at this point. i am pleased to say once again that this work has finally been completed, but i would like to point out that we should not be complacent about this, because the establishment of a common unitary patent, the establishment of a special court is a very important element, but we must now ensure that the patent process itself is wise and logical, so that it does not become absurd, for example in seeking to patent biological processes or in seeking to patent computer-aided inventions or software patents. we can't go to the absurd, because then we'll have more and more opponents than supporters. i congratulate the commissioner, my fellow rapporteurs and i am very pleased that we are finalising this long process.
mr. chairman, please! after more than 30 years of what might have seemed impossible negotiations, we are now at the end of such an important legislative process as the patent package, which allows inventions to be protected by a single patent application covering 25 eu countries, greatly simplifying today's complex system and reducing the cost of patenting by up to 80%. the tool for increasing competitiveness and the community market is finally ready. the cost of obtaining patents in the union is now ten times higher than in the us, and the total cost of obtaining a patent covering the entire territory of the union is now estimated at around eur 25 000. with the package, these costs can be reduced by five times. until now, many european inventors could not afford such expensive protection of their intellectual property, so they often sold their technical ideas overseas. the proposed unitary patent system provides inventors with a choice of available patent protection tailored to their needs. the european union is not imposing on businesses, but is simply putting in their hands new patent protection tools - faster, cheaper and safer than before. each individual will now be able to decide for himself which solution is most advantageous to him and to choose between a national patent, a european patent valid in one or more of the contracting states of the european patent convention, or the unitary patent currently being created. this is an opportunity for all, including small and medium-sized enterprises, which can greatly benefit from this proposal, as it provides for special facilities for translation and eu programmes to support patent initiatives. after months of debate, i believe that a compromise has been reached to the satisfaction of all parties on the transfer of articles 6 to 8 of the regulation to the interinstitutional agreement (the unified patent court agreement) and thus on the maintenance of the appropriate legal basis and the operability of the text. the design is still consistent, only slightly modified from the original version. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr rapkay, mr baldassarre, mr lehne and mr barnier on a very good final document.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating today very important changes in the legal system of the european union, which, despite the extremely optimistic tone of this interesting debate, unfortunately also involve real risks that must be borne in mind, especially in relation to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, especially from the new member states of the european union those smaller member states of the european union. the new rules give an exceptionally strong position to multinational companies, mainly from the major countries of the european union, japan and the usa. in 2011 alone, 88% of patents issued by european patent offices came from these countries. the proposed rules will allow them to better protect their patents and at the same time increase their profits by using their monopoly on their use, and it must be remembered that sometimes patent strategies are also used by these large companies to block and hinder new companies from entering the market. for example, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector in poland accounts for 76% of gdp and, according to deloitte's analysis, the cost of obtaining patents will increase very significantly, causing an increase in the costs of the polish economy of pln 28 billion over 30 years. so you have to see these doubts and think about them.
madam president! the european patent protection system was designed to stimulate innovation and facilitate access to judicial protection. the patent package, however, has the opposite effect. its introduction means that most citizens and companies will be forced to accept in bulk patents created outside their own jurisdiction in languages that are not official languages in their territory. the judgement in these cases will be transferred to foreign courts, which will conduct proceedings in foreign languages. this will increase translation, procedural and legal costs. access to justice and legal protection will be hampered. a system will be created where the strong will become stronger and the weak will be weakened. the european patent package will thus become a protectionist mechanism that will make it harder for smaller players to enter the innovation market. given that most patents are filed by companies in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, the proposed regulations will restrict competition to the detriment of european innovation.
madam president! winston churchill once said, "every time i've been right, i've been outnumbered". i remember being in the minority in this room against sugar reform, and i was right, because it had very bad consequences. and today i am in the minority - judging by the debate so far - in opposing the uniform patent act, and i do so because in my country, poland, this act is perceived very differently by the economic circles, including by the scientists dealing with this issue. they see the cost of both obtaining and enforcing patent protection increasing, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. they see the regulations in the draft as subordinated to the interests of powerful users of the patent system with crossborder disputes with a large territorial reach. i would like to add that i am strongly opposed to the patenting of living organisms, plants and animals. this kind of patent protection is harmful to agriculture, it leads to the treatment of agriculture as an industry and this too is unacceptable. that's why i'm voting against the uniform patent act.
in writing. this regulation is not yet a community patent, which the union has been trying to introduce without effect for years. we have to wait for such an innovative patent, not only in terms of legal procedure but also in terms of form. this case is, in my opinion, crucial. some current patent-molochs, such as those in the field of pharmaceuticals, are as long as 800 pages! an innovative standard of patent form is needed to shorten the patent period, eliminate high translation costs and generally reduce the total cost of protection. the current patent law has been deliberately - in my opinion - so confused that it serves mainly its strongest actors rather than the real innovators. a so-called uniform patent protection system is based on the current patent law; it favours large and wealthy corporations and discriminates against small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those from central and eastern european countries. the proposed regulation is a flawed draft containing many unknowns. it does not analyse the real effects on member states' economies, but oddly expresses concern for the non-eu budget of the european patent office. why no simulation of the administrative costs of the epo and the costs of the common patent court? i suspect this project was prepared by the epo. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! we are systematically seeing the rise of e-commerce and online services. more and more operators, including especially small enterprises, are conducting their business activities online or through the network, with significant cost savings. the internet is developing new business models, creating new professions and directly translating into job growth. unfortunately, there are many challenges to online transactions. for example, because different vat rates are applied to the same goods sold in traditional shops and on the internet. the protection of intellectual property also requires appropriate regulation. however, the main problem seems to be the inconsistency in the enforcement of the rules in the different member states, which is a clear obstacle to the smooth conduct of cross-border online transactions. i fully support the move towards a digital single market. i hope that the specific demands and recommendations contained in the report will be implemented to the benefit of the citizens.
mr. chairman, please! in countries governed undemocratically, the internet is playing an increasingly important role in the fight for human rights. as the arab spring demonstrated, the integration of the information society can stimulate far-reaching political action. in europe, too, the example of acta has highlighted the potential and ability of internet users to influence issues that are important to them. although it is difficult to imagine the possibility of completely isolating the public from access to information, some authoritarian countries are developing electronic curtain mechanisms. these technologies are designed to cut off citizens from the global web. such actions are, of course, to be condemned. however, they require us to commit ourselves to guaranteeing freedom of expression and to countering attempts to block digital freedom. at the same time, international security issues cannot be neglected. in the hands of terrorist organizations, international criminal groups of all kinds, and, above all, hostile states, the internet can be a dangerous tool. i support the report.
mr. chairman, please! this agreement is the first bilateral interregional agreement of the community since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. as the union remains a major investor in the central american region, the implementation of the provisions of the agreement will allow for closer trade relations between the two countries, and will also have a positive impact on issues related to the development of democracy and respect for human rights, going far beyond free trade and significantly strengthening political dialogue. the key benefit for the economy is to expand the range of goods and services covered by a free trade area while ensuring the security of transactions and exchanges. the development of scientific and technical cooperation will be an important element. the provisions of the agreement also provide opportunities to enhance social cohesion and sustainable development as an element of economic growth, stability and democratic engagement. this will have a direct impact on improving the effectiveness of the fight against poverty, inequality and social exclusion, which is a key objective of regional cooperation policy. i support the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! the european patent system - as we know, we have been working on it for many years - is extremely complex. if we want to achieve scale and allow innovative entrepreneurs, creators to operate freely throughout the large european single market, we need to put an end to the 'i'. we must adopt the appropriate solution that entrepreneurs have been waiting for for many years. that is why i believe that a uniform system of patent protection is extremely important it avoids very complex litigation and legal disputes. we are able to reduce the cost of obtaining patents, especially translation, significantly. that is why i fully support the european patent, hoping that the government will allow even more innovative thinking to develop, first of all by removing the complicated administrative barriers, and then the costs will be reduced.
in writing. − in 2009, the kyrgyz republic was hit hard by the global economic crisis. soon after, its economic problems were exacerbated by the social revolt that overthrew president bakiyev's regime in april 2010, accusing it of corruption and lack of democracy. free parliamentary elections were held in october 2010 and resulted in the establishment of the first parliamentary democracy in the central asian region. in support of the pro-democratic efforts of the kyrgyz authorities to mitigate the consequences of the tragic events, the international community (mainly the international monetary fund/economic and financial committee, the world bank and the eu) and regional donors, such as the asian development bank and the eawg crisis fund, committed to provide assistance to the kyrgyz republic at the donors' conference in july 2010. the commission is therefore proposing to provide the kyrgyz republic with macro-financial assistance of up to eur 30 million, to be disbursed half in the form of loans and half in the form of grants. i support this proposal for concrete assistance to the kyrgyz republic and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i would like to support the commission's proposal to provide macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic of eur 30 million. it is intended to be a half-subsidy in exchange for a loan. we know from our analysis that there are important external financial needs in this country and without the support of the european union it will not be able to function efficiently in the coming financial year. i would like to stress that similar proposals for aid to other countries cooperating with the european union have been accepted by the ep in recent months, including support for countries such as ukraine and georgia. they are different, but from a procedural point of view they represent convergent positions.
in writing. − the kyrgyz republic is a small, mountainous country where the agricultural sector dominates as the main component of the economy. farmers mainly cultivate potatoes, sugar beets, and wheat, and they raise livestock. unfortunately, the lack of opportunities for development in other economic sectors has left the kyrgyz republic with a high debt burden and high inflation. and then there's the heavy reliance on russia. that is why, especially in the current situation of the coming economic crisis in the world economy, it is so important to help these countries that are in a very difficult situation. i hope that the financial aid granted to the republic will contribute to some extent to the improvement of the economic situation in that country.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal was to amend regulation (ec) no 106/2008 in order to adapt the implementation of the energy star programme to a new agreement between the united states of america and the eu (the agreement was approved by parliament in october) on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the itre committee adopted only five amendments (a number of others were rejected due to an ecr/epp majority in the vote) and the council accepted all five amendments without needing to open trialogue negotiations. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i hope that the energy labelling programme for office equipment will have a positive impact on the environmental awareness of office workers in particular. as the work so far has shown, this method has worked. i am referring to the energy star programme, which has been successful in saving energy in the office equipment market, estimated at around eur 1.8 billion. of course, this is a considerable amount, which was left in the proverbial pocket of entrepreneurs and could have been spent, for example, on the restructuring or modernization of the above-mentioned workplaces. therefore, this development should bring further savings in the future.
in writing. the digital revolution has brought new challenges, but also new opportunities. the online world has created a huge space for interaction with others, for trade, for information, for access to cultural resources, to which the european legal framework now needs to be adapted. for example, the intellectual property laws in each country now set virtual limits on the trade and accessibility of european cultural assets. europe must follow the progress. we need flexible new rules that harmonise the online market in such key areas as vat, postal services and intellectual property law. in the last five years, in some g8 countries, the internet has generated 20% of economic growth and as much as 25% of job growth. in addition, bcg research shows that by 2016, there will be 3 billion internet users worldwide and the g20 internet economy will reach $4.2 trillion. this is a huge potential which, in these times of crisis, should be seen as an opportunity for the community as a whole. unfortunately, due to legal barriers in the 'non-uniform digital market', on average 62% of all european cross-border orders are not fulfilled; this is a huge loss, as without these obstacles the total economic gains for european consumers could reach around €204 billion, equivalent to 1.7% of eu gdp! i therefore encourage the commission and the council to step up their legislative work in all legal areas in order to harmonise and create a genuine single market also in the digital space.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the resolution on the creation of a digital single market because i believe that in the 21st century we cannot but base our knowledge, our learning, our work or even our economy on the internet. the digital market covering all member states is an opportunity and a potential that we cannot afford to lose. we can't afford to give him up either. the single market with over 500 million consumers is a huge asset for the european union an asset that is not being fully exploited. the digital revolution is giving europe's economy the opportunity to generate growth and, in turn, create much-needed jobs. it is sufficient to mention that companies that fully exploit the potential of the internet create more than twice as many jobs as those that do not. so if we are now asking how we can help young people affected by unemployment, the answer is to create a digital single market. in parallel with the introduction of the digital market, we must ensure that awareness-raising and preparation activities are carried out to prepare people, especially older people, to use it and to move in the digital space.
in writing. - it would be unwise to question the informational or economic power of the internet and digitalisation today. we use the internet to communicate and exchange data every day, and the use of this technology in business is providing a significant increase in gdp in many countries. however, in europe we still face many challenges that are holding back international economic development with the use of digitalisation. the diversity of legal provisions in the member states is one of the biggest barriers for businesses wishing to benefit from the single market. taxation, online payment systems, crossborder shipping and insurance are areas that need to be harmonised and simplified before the european union can fully exploit the potential of the online economy. and i'm not just talking about the good of service providers, but also the good of consumers - secure online transactions and guarantees of fast and seamless delivery will improve trust in this type of service. to ensure europe's strong and competitive economy in the future, we need to invest in digitalisation today, starting with proper it education, building the right infrastructure (broadband) and providing our citizens with easy, secure access to online services.
in writing. − this report followed the commission communication of january 2012 entitled 'a coherent framework for building trust in the digital single market for e-commerce and online services' which focused on growth and employment, smes, overcoming the remaining barriers in the digital single market, building confidence and trust in the digital single market, and a more competitive and inclusive europe. i voted in favour of this report because it covers several important factors: inconsistent enforcement of rules in member states, the promotion of a digital single market test and its inclusion in the commission's impact assessments, the strategy to boost digital entrepreneurship, including the promotion of training for online traders and sme development programmes, and the need to tackle cross-border delivery services, which are identified as one of the main concerns of consumers.
in writing. − the digital market has enormous potential, and it is our great opportunity to exploit it, especially in times of crisis. we're slowly removing the barriers to its full development, but there are many pieces to the puzzle. one of the most important is the lack of consumer trust in the network. this situation can be improved, inter alia, by work on the law on the protection of personal data.
in writing. − the rapid pace of the digital economy in europe and worldwide has given rise to a european digital agenda. the next step is to create a digital single market. the digital revolution that we are witnessing has changed the way we do business in many socio-economic areas. a prime example of this is the enormous impact of the internet economy on our lives. the internet is responsible for 20% of economic growth and 25% of job growth. the union must become a dominant player in the itc area in order to remain competitive. the pan-european coordination of the digital market will be a very important task for the community, as it can ensure its dynamic development and maintain its existing competitiveness.
in writing. − statistics show that over 90% of enterprises in the eu are small and medium-sized enterprises, which provide around two thirds of jobs and maintain a high gdp. however, only 8% of them export their goods and services to other eu countries. the internationalisation of companies would certainly be easier if it were not for the recurring difficulties in accessing capital. i believe that national governments should support smes through, inter alia, export credits and provide sme finance in the form of increased access to loans, including start-up loans, and co-financing, especially for young entrepreneurs. in europe, there is a clear under-exploited potential for entrepreneurship, especially among young people, who often, despite having developed innovative and credible business plans and a wealth of background, have great difficulty in setting up a business due to a lack of sufficient equity capital. given that the unemployment rate among europeans, especially those aged 18-30, is increasing year by year and is one of the biggest and most urgent challenges in europe, there is a need to increase the pressure on the promotion of entrepreneurship internationally. this is supported by the report by mr zahradil, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - small and medium-sized enterprises are the driving force behind the european economy today. their actions have been the driving force behind weak economic growth in recent years, for example in poland. that's why we should do everything we can to help them. our actions should be two-pronged. on the one hand, financial aid an important initiative by mr zahradil on the other, a reduction in administrative costs. unfortunately, on the second point, we are still adding unnecessary financial burdens to the sme sector within the union, for example through the single european patent system which we are voting on today.
in writing. - i voted to accept that recommendation. the outcome of the second reading of the trilogue contains many positive provisions: first, to protect investors by guaranteeing them equal treatment and a level playing field in third country markets as part of the future eu investment policy; second, to guarantee legal certainty by limiting the commission's right to review existing bilateral investment agreements and terminate them only in cases where these agreements are contrary to eu law or impede the conclusion of eu agreements with third countries; third, to allow flexibility for investors to conclude new bilateral investment agreements by member states if those countries are allowed to exercise their exclusive eu competence in the field of foreign direct investment.
in writing. - i'd like to support the idea of financial aid for georgia. as a member of parliament from a country which has been ruled by a communist regime for 50 years, i am well aware of the cost of recovering from the trauma of building a new state and its economy. in addition, since regaining independence, georgia has been torn by both internal disputes and conflicts with the russian federation, on which it is also economically dependent. looking at the changes that have taken place in this country over the last decade, i am convinced that the money will be well spent and will help to unlock the full potential of this country. progress in fighting corruption and building democracy is truly remarkable. this assistance also confirms the eu's policy towards the east, as well as the many declarations and assurances of european politicians that they are willing to cooperate with georgia.
in writing. - i consider the report by mr vital moreira to be a substantive document and have therefore voted in favour of its adoption. i agree with the rapporteur that, given that georgia has been suffering from the effects of the economic crisis since 2008, which has resulted in a deterioration in its financial situation, the granting of macro-financial assistance is the appropriate response from the european union. the aim of the assistance is to support the economic stabilisation of georgia and to meet its balance of payments needs. at the same time, appropriate coordination between the different support instruments, such as the financial assistance received from the international monetary fund, should be ensured. in this context, it is necessary to ensure that the expenditure allocated contributes to the priorities of the european union's external policy, such as democracy and respect for human rights, while respecting the principle of transparency. thank you, sir.
in writing. − relations between georgia and the european union are developing under the european neighbourhood policy. the union has granted budget support grants to georgia under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) amounting to eur 37 million per year for the period 2010-2012. the eu's macro-financial assistance to georgia amounts to eur 46 million (half of which is loan and half grant). the objective of the assistance is to stabilise the economy of georgia and to meet the balance of payments needs of the country as set out in the current imf programme. georgia is an important eu partner in the south caucasus and should receive the financial support necessary to continue reform and modernisation.
in writing. - at the european parliament's meeting on tuesday, i voted in favour of granting further macro-financial assistance to georgia. georgia is an important partner of the european union and one of the most important, best-developing countries in the eastern partnership. the global crisis and the war with russia have weakened the country's economic potential, as it is in the midst of major reforms to restructure the georgian economy. the assistance provided by the european union (in the form of grants and loans) is not only an important element in maintaining the current pace of positive pro-democratic change, but also an important political signal that the union is willing to support its partners.
in writing. - i am concerned about the changes taking place in georgia after the elections won by bidzine ivanishvili and his georgian dream: the closure of the pro-presidential ministers, the crackdown on the opposition and the strong rapprochement with russia, which is reflected in the revision of the energy transfer treaties from azerbaijan to turkey and europe. europe must therefore now redirect its efforts to bring georgia into the fold of its community. that is why it is so important to provide strong financial support to tbilisi, while also looking after and promoting democratic standards in georgia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the document prepared by mr fleckenstein because i believe it represents a balanced compromise between the commission's proposal and the positions of the european parliament and the council. i believe it is desirable that emsa should play a greater role in the future in adapting the training and retraining system for seafarers to the changing challenges in the maritime sector. i am pleased that emsa will play a greater role in improving training and access for seafarers. the new regulation, which enables the agency to promote the exchange of best practice, can help representatives of the maritime professions to plan their careers and to make informed decisions on further training and professional development. moreover, the exchange of good practices will help to develop the educational offer of maritime universities, both in terms of undergraduate and graduate courses, which will contribute to improving the chances of european maritime personnel on the labour markets and to enhancing maritime safety, which is one of the priorities of the european union.
in writing. − unfortunately, the european parliament has voted amendments which introduce a lot of ambiguity in the definition of the patent market and divide it, which is to be uniform both in terms of patent rights and the potential licensing associated with them. the unequal treatment of the market of the 25 contracting states suggests that speculation in licences in these countries is permissible. this may also concern the future profits of the intermediary, the epo, which it will be reluctant to share with the contracting countries. the original ec definition of the innovation market is based on population, and thus depends on the potential demand that this population creates. this is important because the distribution of 50% of the epo's profits to the contracting member states will depend on the understanding of this case. it's about putting the market for inventions under the long-standing anti-innovation patent monopoly. this appropriation could be used to support patent initiatives submitted by small and medium-sized enterprises. the fact that these companies are not able to defend their interests before the national courts in the language of those countries may lead to their total elimination from the market. i voted against the adoption of this regulation because it does not protect all single market economies from global competition; instead, it makes it harder for smes to operate, especially in the economically weaker eu countries, by subjecting them to the monopoly of large corporations from financially stronger eu countries and non-eu corporations.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mr rapkay on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of a unitary patent protection system, even though i know that europe needs a unitary patent. however, at the moment, with the design of the patent, i think the long-term costs of introducing it may outweigh the benefits.
in writing. − under the current legal system, a company wishing to protect its product throughout the union must obtain a patent from the european patent office in munich and certify it in each eu country. its costs are the payment of patent attorneys, translators and clerks. in total, to get protection in 25 eu countries, a company has to spend 41,000 euros. to this must be added eur 28 000 to ensure that the protection is valid for 10 years. the introduction of the unitary european patent will significantly reduce the cost of patent protection. the cost of obtaining patent protection in 25 european countries (excluding italy and spain) will be €5.5 thousand per patent and €7.5 thousand for its maintenance. this is a clear win for the most innovative entrepreneurs, on whom the economy should be based. so is the polish economy. it is high time for poland to invest in innovation. we certainly cannot be afraid of innovation, otherwise the so-called development drift scenario will become a real threat to poland. moreover, as analyses available to the polish ministry of economy show, the rejection of the unitary european patent will mean that the polish economy will lose pln 48 billion over the next 30 years. the work on the single european patent has been going on for over 35 years. it's time they were terminated. to the benefit of the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. - i strongly object to the wording of this resolution. the introduction of the single european patent is a threat to the european economy and could worsen the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. as i mentioned earlier, they are at the heart of europe's economic development and should therefore be at the centre of our attention. these costs are enormous, especially in terms of administrative and operational costs. in the new european countries, the jurisdiction of the sme sector will increase fivefold. the cost of purchasing licences under the new system will be, depending on the scenario, between 90% and 180% higher than the current system. the cost of patent clearance will increase by as much as 40 times. it is also difficult to calculate the cost of the time spent by entrepreneurs in completing documents. all this with the constant cost of obtaining a patent and the constant cost of opening up new markets. it is therefore worth asking the question of the meaning of further development of the unitary european patent.
in writing. - i voted against the report by raffaele baldassari on the proposal for a council regulation introducing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of a unitary patent protection system with regard to the relevant translation arrangements, even though i know that a unitary patent is needed in europe. however, at the moment, with the design of the patent, i think the long-term costs of introducing it may outweigh the benefits.
in writing. − for nearly 50 years we have been working to introduce a common patent protection system in europe that would be able to ensure easy, cheap and fair registration of designs on a european scale. the problems we faced were the enormous costs of patent examination in a few or a dozen countries, which, because of the translation work that is usually required and the annual renewal fees, were several times higher than the patent costs in countries like the united states and japan. moreover, the legal protection of a design at union level has forced the patent holder to engage in legal disputes in many countries, on different grounds, since infringement cases were subject to national jurisdiction. today, in the quest to simplify and standardise the system, we should focus on patent holders, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are crucial to our economy. the documents adopted today should make a strong demand for cost reductions and simplification of administrative procedures, as well as for free translation services for those wishing to register their project abroad. the single patent system should extend the business opportunities of our entrepreneurs, not just the largest ones, to the entire european market and provide them with the legal protection they deserve. i cannot therefore accept the report as it stands, as the provisions contained therein may impose a heavy financial burden on undertakings in some member states.
in writing. the european parliament has voted on reports which introduce a number of ambiguities both as regards the definition of the patent market and the potential licensing associated with it. the market share of the 25 contracting states suggests that speculation in licences in these countries is permissible. the commission's definition of the innovation market, originally based on population, i.e. potential future demand, should also have been adopted. the regulations adopted do not protect all single market economies equally from global competition; instead, they may make it more difficult for existing smes in the weaker eu countries to operate, subjecting them both to the monopoly of large corporations from financially stronger eu countries and non-eu corporations, and reducing the innovation of those who are already merely duplicating existing solutions. on the one hand, the cost of patenting itself will be significantly reduced, while on the other hand, the cost of legal defence against real or imagined intellectual property infringement claims may be higher. the latter issue may concern mainly countries with an official language other than that adopted in the regulations. i voted against because the proposed regulations completely ignore the possibility of further reducing the cost of patenting through new standards for the preparation of patent descriptions, which would eliminate the non-transparent and very expensive patent giants. that's too bad. it was a unique opportunity to generate an innovative, cheaper than the us and japan, real european patent, in line with the existing convention.
in writing. − the single patent protection system was intended to stimulate innovation and competitiveness. unfortunately, i believe that accepting it will have the opposite effect. the big multinational companies will undoubtedly gain, and it should be remembered that very often these companies use patent strategies to block the entry of smaller companies and small and medium-sized enterprises will lose. in new eu countries such as poland, the cost of obtaining a patent will increase. the costs will include translation, procedures and legal services outside the home country. i therefore voted against the adoption of a uniform system of patent protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the inclusion of a bilateral safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the eu-central america association agreement. the objective of the clause is to implement monitoring and reporting measures and wto-compliant market protection measures (e.g. re-establishment of customs duties) in order to avoid the risk of injury or damage to the eu industry as a result of the conclusion of the eu-central america agreement, with particular regard to the outermost regions in accordance with article 294 tfeu.
in writing. - i voted to accept this report. the association agreement with central america is an important precedent, as it is the first interregional bilateral association agreement signed by the eu since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the eu is central america's main investor and second largest trading partner, as well as its largest donor of development aid. the agreement contains a very important trade part which will expand the range of goods and services benefiting from the free trade area and establish a framework of security and legal certainty which will stimulate the flow of goods, services and investment. i would also like to draw attention to the question of respect for the principles of democracy and fundamental human rights, which are also the subject of the association agreement.
in writing. - i voted with the ecr group in favour of the eu-central america association agreement because there are several important factors behind it. the agreement is an important precedent as it is the first interregional bilateral association agreement signed by the eu since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. moreover, it will not only significantly strengthen trade relations with central america, but also contribute to stability and democracy in the region. the agreement contains a very important trade part which will expand the range of goods and services benefiting from the free trade area and establish a framework of security and legal certainty which will stimulate the flow of goods, services and investment. the association agreement also addresses the issues of respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights. it also refers to other areas of cooperation, such as modernisation, environmental protection, the fight against poverty, scientific and technical cooperation and cooperation within civil society.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because the benefits of the eu-colombia-peru free trade agreement are impressive. the agreement will fully exempt eu exporters of industrial and fishery products to peru and colombia from customs duties estimated at half a billion euro. at the latest 10 years after its entry into force, eu exporters in these sectors will save at least eur 250 million per year in customs duties in these two countries. after gradual liberalisation over a slightly longer period (up to 17 years), new savings of eur 22 million per year on exports of agricultural and processed agricultural products will be achieved, meaning that the overall benefit to eu exports at the end of the transition period will be more than eur 270 million per year. economic development of the partner: the agreement is expected to boost the economies of colombia and peru by almost 1% of gdp. in total, 91% of colombian and peruvian exports will be covered by the eu's tariff relief.
in writing. − the promotion of free trade between the european union and third countries should be considered desirable. that is why i welcomed the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. i think it is particularly worth noting that the agreement also contains provisions on the protection of democratic principles in peru and colombia. i consider the provisions on guaranteeing labour and social rights to be equally important. it is a great achievement that the agreement will contribute to improving the legal situation of workers in peru and colombia. it is also worth stressing that this agreement is part of the wider context of the bilateral human rights dialogue between the european union and peru and colombia. the european union has an important task to strengthen the fight against social inequalities in the countries of the region. i hope that the economic development expected as a result of the agreement will also contribute to reducing social inequalities in peru and colombia. at the same time, i am pleased that the agreement remains open to the other andean community countries. it is highly desirable that these countries should join the agreement in the future, which i believe is beneficial to all parties. in view of the above, i have decided to support the conclusion of a trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs roberta angelilli on the prevention of age-related diseases in women. according to eurostat, 87 million europeans are over the age of 65, 50.5 million of whom are women. despite statistically living longer, women are more likely to suffer from chronic diseases that cause disability. the ageing of the population, the increasing proportion of women affected by serious diseases and the current european year of older persons and solidarity between generations call for action to reduce the incidence of age-related diseases. in this context, it is particularly important to guarantee access to health prevention and diagnosis, as well as high-quality research and medical care for all women, regardless of their material and social status or place of residence. in addition, it is essential to organise social campaigns promoting healthy and active lifestyles among older people and providing reliable information on the risks faced by older people. the aim is to raise public awareness of the risks associated with regular preventive examinations, to identify appropriate behaviours (how to actively contribute to improving health) and to highlight the importance of involving older people in various local initiatives.
in writing. − throughout europe, the problem of an ageing population and age-related diseases is evident, especially among women. the main factors are poor access to information, especially in rural areas, a significant difference in the quality of healthcare between urban and rural areas, and the unequal economic and social situation between women and men. but here i want to emphasize the huge role of active older people. in my region of the subcarpathian region, 17 universities of the third century are active, in each municipality there are activities in the vicinity of rural hostels, and this number is increasing every year. the women organise conferences, volunteer, participate in sports and recreation activities, cooperate with local government, encourage a wide range of activities, use of new technologies, the internet and improve their skills. and i want to commend all these ladies for their enthusiasm, their tremendous strength and their willingness to organize all these seminars on healthy living, proper nutrition, promoting preventive research. i support the report by roberta angelilli and that is why i voted for it.
mr. chairman, please! the european union needs good news, and the adoption tomorrow of the budget package for 2012 and 2013 is such a good sign. this decision will ensure the liquidity of the eu's finances for the coming year, but will allow very importantly the disbursement of six of the nine billion euros outstanding for that year. this money is waiting for local governments, scientists, entrepreneurs, but also students benefiting from the erasmus programme. for me, the fact that we have to adopt an amending budget is proof that europeans are making effective and active use of european funds, but it also shows that the eu institutions should ensure that the union is able to meet and finance the commitments it makes to beneficiaries and to cooperate more intensively with each other in this respect. for me, this is not just a question of budgetary integrity, but also of the credibility of the european union as an institution, as a joint venture. i hope that the council will share my view here and take into account in its action the respect of those declarations which we will adopt tomorrow on the additional payments for 2012 and 2013. i am far from delighted with this decision and with the compromise we will accept tomorrow by our vote, because i believe that the imbalance between commitments and payments which we have seen for some years now requires serious, fundamental reforms in the structure of the union budget. the problem we are facing at the moment, with too low a level of payment, is that the level of payment was too high in the first years of implementation of the eu programmes. the money has been going back to the member states, and now that the money is needed, the member states are pretending that they don't know what's going on and don't want to pay the backlog. i call on both the commission and the council to take this sad lesson of recent years into account in the planning of the next multiannual budget of the union, in order to achieve the right balance between commitments and payments in the union budget.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you so much. i join those members who are positive about the compromise on the 2012-13 amending budget. in a time when we are bombarded by either very bad or only bad news every day in europe, this is one of the few good news of recent times. it's not just about an extra 6 billion euros to meet commitments, although that's important too. we are discussing the credibility and predictability of the european union. i think that commissioner janusz lewandowski has rightly emphasised this in his speeches. the union has therefore maintained its financial rating today. i have only one question on this can because when it comes to credibility, we need to know what happens to liabilities that are not funded this year. when will that be? because this is a very important thing.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating myself on the fact that a compromise on the budget has been reached and will hopefully be voted on tomorrow. i think that a provisional budget would be the worst possible solution, both economically and politically. it is worth noting, however, that the problem of payment has not been solved, but merely postponed. the eur 6 billion that the council accepted in the amending budget will only cover part of the 2012 needs, with the remaining eur 3 billion likely to increase as it does not take into account the invoices for november and december, when cohesion policy payments are cumulated. it is therefore inevitable that an amending budget will be adopted in 2013. i look forward to the commitment and competence of successive presidencies in this matter.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank my colleagues and counter-rapporteurs very much for the many long meetings during which we were able to discuss and reach many compromises. we're in the run-up to the ground handling vote today. contrary to what may appear, the main objective of this document is not to liberalise the groundhandling services sector. the objective of this document is to prepare the european ground handling sector for an appropriate level of global competitiveness. we all remember coming home for christmas two years ago. a lot of us are stuck at airports. why would you do that? because suddenly we ran out of liquid to de-cool the planes. not because the airports were negligent, but because the airlines were not prepared for the winter conditions. as the european parliament, we have proposed for the first time in eu legislation minimum standards, minimum quality requirements for ground handling, including a minimum amount of de-icing liquid for aircraft, so that similar situations do not happen again. each of us has had to wait more than half an hour for an airport check-in or several dozen minutes for a suitcase to be delivered, unless, of course, the suitcase was lost earlier. we've been working on that, too. once the minimum quality requirements i propose are in place, these situations will be kept to a minimum. this regulation will also introduce a single european approval for trading companies. there will therefore be no obstacle to a french company providing its services in, for example, germany. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2013 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013. unfortunately, the debate on what this document is really about has been dominated by the question of market opening at several european airports. i would not call this opening a liberalisation, but a further, very cautious and conservative opening of the market. for how can we talk about liberalising the services sector if we only offer one additional handling company at the largest airports? this is the case for 90% of european airports. because not two, not three, not four, not even eight companies are providing these services. many times during the discussion of this document, i heard the following arguments: the quality of services and security will decrease. the commission has not found that the measure is compatible with the internal market. if they fall below these requirements, member states at the request of the airport will be able to impose financial penalties on the companies or suspend their licence. argument two: worsening working conditions. untrue: the european commission's proposal included, among other things, the compulsory takeover of employees of the company that loses the tender and a guarantee of employment. social rights have been further strengthened by the employment committee, thanks to a report by mep thomas mann. thirdly, it will have a negative impact on european airports. untrue: the real liberalisation of the sector was carried out in 1996. there are 11 categories of ground handling services. the market for seven of them was fully liberalised over 15 years ago. however, for the four categories: ramps, baggage handling, mail, passenger handling and refuelling, there must be no less than two handling agents at the airport. ladies and gentlemen! as rapporteur, i ask you to look at this document as objectively as possible. not through the eyes of a few airports that want to maintain their monopoly position as an airport and ground handling company, but through the eyes of the tens of millions of passengers who travel from european airports every year.
the question asked by raising the blue card. this is a question for congressman klinz. what do you call radical liberalization? i understand your favorite airport is frankfurt airport. there are actually two companies providing handling services there today. one of these companies has 85% of the market, and the other has 15%. in my document and in the amendment i tabled for tomorrow's vote, i proposed three (from two to three). it is not a 100% increase, but a 50% increase, and as far as social issues are concerned, i am sure that we all had the opportunity today to see several thousand unionists in yellow jackets standing in front of parliament. i had a meeting with them right after they finished their protest. do you know what they said? they said they want this document back to the transportation commission.
mr. chairman, please! i understand the commission had good intentions, only that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. the commission intends to improve the efficiency and quality of groundhandling services by further increasing 'competition between service providers'. unfortunately, the commission did not take into account the specific conditions of the industry. these conditions mean that the re-imposition of the regulation would have the exact opposite effect to that which was intended, at least in the declarations. remember, the smaller the market share of service providers, the more so-called downtime occurs. as a result, increasing the number of service providers at the same time, in the same airport, reduces the productivity of the crew instead of increasing it. i understand that the patent that the commission has, i.e. the increase in productivity, is to be implemented by reducing wages and that is how you might intend to achieve it. well, increasing the number of competitors doesn't increase efficiency, because there's basically nothing to improve. remember, the number of competing service companies doesn't just add more planes. i met with the protesters. they want this project to be sent back to the european commission. so i turn to my esteemed foreword, mr. higgins, and i turn to mr. gross. let's make a decision tomorrow, let's vote. this project should be returned to the european commission. let's get a new design that takes into account the interests of the passengers and the need for professionalism and safety.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to refer to the discussion on the third project, namely the project to deal with airport services. this is the project that has been the most contentious among us here. it would seem that a greater opening of this market should be beneficial for passengers. but the fundamental question is, would that be the case in practice? i believe that the safety of flights and passengers is of paramount importance. we must be absolutely certain that increased competition will not lower safety standards in any given situation. i therefore have a question to the rapporteur: has this been given due consideration in the regulation? because in every situation, flight safety must be the priority.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'll try to be as quick as possible and answer the most common questions. in general, this discussion showed how difficult the subject was. and suddenly, in this discussion, the biggest liberal in this room is a conservative, and the liberal who represented the liberal faction turned out to be very conservative and very conservative. i'm glad we've been able to reach so many compromises. i hope that once this document is returned to the transport committee, these compromises will allow us to finish working on this document. many arguments were used. my liberal colleague, who i no longer see in the room, used the productivity argument as the main argument against this document. what is this productivity? that's the time when an employee doesn't have five minutes in eight hours to even drink a glass of water. 100% productivity would be if he had absolutely no time for anything else. three weeks ago, i visited narita airport in tokyo. this is an airport that is completely liberalised, there are no barriers to companies being able to do free business, i.e. between airlines and handling companies. there are nine operating handling companies, including three independent ones. i asked about productivity, what do employees do when there's no rush hour, there's what's called off-peak hours? is it to their detriment? the japanese, who are known to have a high regard for work and working time, were very surprised by this question. they told me that if they had a little time off, they could eat, they could rest, and they could even get some training. they don't have three days of training, as we want to introduce in this regulation, but they have these trainings every day, every other day, every third day, depending on whether the workers have a moment off or they don't have that moment off. it's a matter of safety and security. my colleague zemke asked about this issue among others. of course, this was one of the most important issues in the document. any handling company that is approved under this regulation will have to prove that it is a safe company and that it meets all the protection requirements. these are very important issues, indeed crucial for this regulation. and now the question which should interest my socialist colleagues, my green colleagues, my colleagues from the gue, and also my colleagues from the ppe in the frankfurt airport area, who have mentioned so many times today how important social issues are, how important the safety of workers is, how important it is today that these workers feel safe. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. – today's debate on enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax (ftt) marks an important milestone in the long-anticipated introduction of the policy. applying a low-rate, wide-base tax on the main financial classes, the ftt is expected to generate tens of billions of euros to the public purse, further decreasing the financial burden on ordinary eu citizens. importantly, the ftt could also be used as a tool to regulate markets, curb speculation and encourage sustainable economic growth. i would have liked to see the ftt applied throughout the entire eu; however, as that is impossible, i welcome the decision of 11 member states to introduce the ftt in the framework of enhanced cooperation on the basis of the commission proposal of september 2011. even with the participation of 11 countries, enhanced cooperation on the ftt would contribute to a stronger single market with fewer barriers and distortions. it would also ensure a fairer contribution from the financial sector, which is currently under-taxed by about €18 billion a year. i remain hopeful that more member states will consider joining the common ftt system once it has been established in order to support the eu’s internal market, financial recovery and long-term growth.
in writing. the draft financial transaction tax was strongly opposed by the european parliament from the outset. some meps saw it as a tool to punish banks for causing the crisis, a way to introduce a genuine eu tax that would directly feed the eu budget, or a way to fight speculators. the commission notes that the ftt is a tax on the supply of services and that the tax is not a tax on the supply of services. the result of this deep division is the situation we have today. eleven countries have decided to introduce the tax on their own to set an example to encourage its introduction throughout the european union and eventually the world. we should not oppose the establishment of enhanced cooperation between these countries as long as it does not disrupt the common market, which is also a requirement for the establishment of such cooperation. as we know, the debate on the structure of this tax will take place after we have given our consent, and it is therefore important that the final version of the tax does not have a negative impact on countries that have not joined it.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? we are living in the 21st century europe, we are not barbarians, but a civilization of people with a certain sensitivity. this sensitivity requires us to treat animals - sentient beings who experience fear and pain - in a humane way, worthy of our civilization and culture. we have regulations in the european union on the humane transport of animals, which we are paying attention to today. we have received a report from the european commission on the implementation of these transports, which are increasing. every year, almost 30 million pigs, over 4 million cows, 4 million sheep and over 150 000 horses are transported between member states, with more than two thirds of these transport journeys taking more than 8 hours, and the number of animals transported, except horses, increasing year by year. animals are transported over very long distances, for long periods of time sometimes more than 24 hours and it is very difficult to ensure effective control of these transports. the situation is ripe for serious consideration of the idea put forward by many civil society organisations and many citizens of the union to limit the transport of animals to a maximum of 8 hours. this is also the position of my report, which was adopted by a large majority in the committee on agriculture and rural development. shorter transportation times mean better welfare for animals. shorter transport times mean healthier meat, since it is known that prolonged stress deposits toxins in the animal's body. the shorter transportation also means lower costs, because long-distance transportation is very expensive, and the costs are borne by the farmer who receives less for his animals and by the consumer who pays for these transportations at a higher price for the meat he buys. shorter transportation also means fewer vehicles on the road and less co2 emissions, and it also means the possibility of developing local meat processing in rural areas, close to the farms. the current concentration of the meat industry in the big corporations is not good. the serious consideration of the idea of limiting animal transport to 8 hours, as proposed in the report, is a compromise. we're not saying it's going to happen immediately; we're not saying it's going to happen everywhere, because we're making exceptions, for example, for geographical reasons for islands or peripheral regions. we want to bring this report to the attention of the commission and we cannot remain silent to the voice of the citizens, and more than a million union citizens have signed a petition to limit the transport of animals to 8 hours. we cannot ignore the voice of those people who, out of a sense of vulnerability, are demanding such a limitation. we cannot agree with the commission which ignores these voices and says 'no because no'. we cannot put the interests of big industry and transportation companies above our civilized and cultural relationship with animals. i would therefore ask all of you to accept my report without amendment. we have worked really well in committee to reach a sensible and rational compromise, and i would like to thank all the members of the committee on agriculture and also the other colleagues from the animal welfare intergroup for their very good cooperation. mr. president, mahatma gandhi said that the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way it treats its animals. we use animals for our consumption and our economy, and this will probably not change in the near future. but at the present time, we should do everything in our power to reduce the suffering of animals in all the areas in which we are using them. the limiting of transport times is a concrete issue in which we can care for animals and show evidence of high-level civilisation and culture in the 21st century.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to support this initiative and this report. i would also like to thank mr wojciechowski for his contribution, for seeking a compromise but also for his constant efforts to make these rules good for animals. in 2005, the solutions that we talked about were introduced, and a lot of people were talking about it and wondering if it was worth it. today, all the research, all the experience shows that we took a good step, in a very good direction, and that step brought certain results. we have focused on animal welfare, but we have also improved economic conditions for farmers and entrepreneurs. and today is the moment when we should go even further. therefore, the reduction in the transport time of animals is a good and very sensible proposal. we're going to help strengthen local processing, local slaughter. these will be jobs in those places where they're really needed most today. and at the same time, we're going to reduce costs, which is very important. transporting animals over long distances increases costs, and at the same time, the meat that then reaches consumers is much more expensive than it could be. it is also important that today, despite the rules - and this is why we are also calling on the commission and the member states in this report to carry out veterinary inspections - that despite certain rules, these procedures, which are in place, are not fully respected. this is not just transportation, but the loading and unloading of animals. i call on the commission to do everything possible to ensure that this situation is constantly being changed in favour of improving animal welfare.
mr. chairman, please! wojciechowski is not in favour of long-distance transport of animals and is talking about limiting them to 8 hours. i'd prefer it to be six hours, that's about 500 kilometers of transportation. however, restricting the transport of animals is a very difficult problem. slaughterhouses and businesses are increasing their scale of operations, i.e. the number of animals slaughtered, in order to meet environmental requirements and improve their efficiency, and this leads to the delivery of animals from ever greater distances. i am more concerned with transport conditions, the availability of water, air and the quality of transport. longer consignments are dictated mainly by the requirements of the foreign customer. the transport of live animals is usually organised and dispatched by representatives of foreign customers and is dictated by market demand in the countries of destination. in this situation, the introduction of further restrictions to reduce transport time will hit agricultural producers who will be deprived of the opportunity to sell their products. the reduction of the journey time of animals will result in the need to load them more frequently for a journey break, which, combined with re-loading, is associated with very high stress for the animals, not to mention the possibility of unnecessary injuries and a deterioration of the safety conditions. in conclusion, the current rules governing the transport of animals over long distances represent a reasonable, albeit necessary, compromise between the need to ensure the highest possible animal welfare and economic conditions, which does not mean that there is not much more that can be done to improve the transport of animals, and i agree with the rapporteur. and i'll end with a little joke: wouldn't it be more humane to drive the animals away?
mr. chairman, please! i would like to encourage support for the report on the protection of animals during transport, which proposes to reduce the maximum journey time for animals for slaughter to 8 hours. the report also contains - from my point of view - three very important amendments which relate to improving transport conditions and the functioning of the control points. for a long time now, and i would like to stress here why the request in mr wojciechowski's report is so radical and why i support this request to limit transport to 8 hours, it is because for a long time the european commission, in its work on the implementation of the directive, has very stubbornly avoided dealing with the question of transport time for animals in general, despite many studies, very diverse studies, which indicate the need for change. i hope that the position of parliament, which will be expressed and will support this demand for the reduction of the transport time of animals, will lead to a serious debate on this subject and in the long term lead to a reduction in the practice of transporting live animals for slaughter over very long distances.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i thank all the members who have spoken here. i thank you for all the votes: those who fully agreed with my report and those who had some doubts or criticisms about its content. i would like to thank in particular the shadow rapporteurs, who have been a great team to work with on this difficult report. in taking on the responsibility of producing it, i did not even realize that i was taking on a report that would stir up so much emotion and controversy. what has been presented in my report is a kind of compromise. on the one hand, we had proposals going forward with very large time restrictions on the transport of animals. there have been suggestions not to raise the issue at all. i think what has been presented is a reasonable compromise on this issue, and i would very much like to see that compromise upheld in tomorrow's vote. we're going to vote tomorrow. tomorrow is the 12th day, the 12th month, the 12th year, and at noon we will vote. i would like to see the four twelve happy with this report and that we really do take a significant step towards a real improvement in the conditions under which animal transport takes place in the european union.
in writing. harmonised implementation and enforcement of animal rights legislation is important to maintain high animal welfare standards and prevent market disturbances in the european union. the increasing concentration of slaughterhouses, driven by increasing veterinary, sanitary and environmental requirements, is extending the transport routes for animals for slaughter. given the specificity of the road infrastructure and the related speed limitations, the transport of animals may take more than 8 hours even within the borders of poland. this will undoubtedly result in a deterioration in the comfort of transport for the animals, because this situation will force the transporters to increase the transport speed to the maximum allowed. i therefore call on the member states to implement the existing rules on animal transport properly and i call on the commission to support local processing wherever possible. eu policy should aim to create short and transparent supply chains and, for longer journeys to deliver food to further regions, to ensure the best possible epizootic safety conditions, regardless of the duration of such journeys.
madam president! non-euro area observers are wondering what the implications for this part of the world would be of creating a so-called extra financial capacity for the euro area, i.e. a separate budget reserved for the euroland. the policy of closer fiscal and monetary integration is another attempt to save the single currency. i am afraid that this time it may be at the expense of other countries, the beneficiary countries of structural policy. instead of dividing, we must return to the roots, to the sources. the controversies and spectacular nature of the nobel prize should be turned into an impetus for policy change. millions of young europeans are not waiting for events, but for the next policy that will open up opportunities for them. peace is not just this great peace, but also economic security for every day. the lack of prospects, the inequalities and the lack of competitiveness of the european economy are the challenges we face. that's the challenge of tomorrow's meeting, and we're all keeping our fingers crossed that it will end well and that new opportunities will open up. we're waiting for action instead of words.
so after having such a proposal, we also need to decide by voting whether to proceed or not to proceed. we shall put it to the vote.
i propose that we hold a roll-call vote on the gue/ngl proposal. (parliament rejected the request by rcv)
rapporteur. − mr president, it is too late for a longer explanation. please support the original text of my report, which is good for animal welfare and good in terms of balance.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say that i voted against the current ground-based proposal in an absolutely conscious way. it is therefore fortunate that the draft legislation has been returned to the transport committee of the european parliament. the idea of increasing the competitiveness of those who provide services at airports is a good one. however, we must be very careful that this does not affect the quality of the service, and the basic element of this quality must be maximum safety for passengers and flights. i think it is good, therefore, that the commission is working in this direction with this piece of legislation.
mr. chairman, please! the congestion of european airports is one of the most serious challenges for the union's transport policy. due to insufficient capacity, a significant percentage of air transport demand is not met. it is important that attempts are made to ensure optimal allocation and use of take-off and landing times. however, the commission's proposals to raise the time allocation threshold required to maintain the time series in the flight season and to change the number of allocations seem too far-fetched. so it's good that the report includes the limits at the current level. unfortunately, the report also contains a number of proposals which are unfavourable to consumers. for example, records related to secondary turnover can cause serious disruption and distortion of the time allocation system. i also do not think it is appropriate to impose financial penalties on air carriers that do not respect their allocations or that are late in returning them. i therefore voted against the report.
mr. chairman, please! the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. the local population in particular is exposed to the constant inconvenience of this. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2012 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2012. certain of the commission's powers of control may therefore be justified. i am in favour of limiting its power to adopt delegated acts for technical updates. i do not see the point in replacing the provisions of the existing directive with a regulation. such a change in the form of the regulation seems unjustified. moreover, the requirements for the selection of products on the basis of their health effects are based on subjective arguments. the proposed proposal also does not provide for the possibility of involving the inhabitants of the areas around airports in the consultation process. on the basis of the above, i voted to reject the report.
ms dodds is the last speaker on the list of explanations of vote on the report by mr leichtfried. we still have three reports which were voted on this afternoon, but we do not have time to go through the explanations of vote on those three reports and, as i mentioned at the beginning of the procedure, we will postpone the explanations until tomorrow after voting. written explanations of vote
in writing. − the union's compliance with its obligations is primarily a question of the community's credibility in the eyes of its own citizens, especially when it appears that the most recognisable eu programmes are at risk of being underfunded. that's why i'm glad we have this arrangement.
in writing. - we are at a point where the lack of a budget for the union for 2013 would be another bad news for a europe in crisis. the agreement is far from ideal, but it allows the union to carry out its tasks in the coming year. however, this will only be possible if the council fulfils its commitment to additional measures.
in writing. − the proposal is intended to establish a common framework for producing european statistics on safety from crime, via the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the member states of harmonised european data on crime and safety based upon a household/personal survey. the origin of the survey is a response to ‘people’s feelings of personal insecurity is an important aspect of citizens’ well-being’. i share the opinion of the rapporteur who underlined that the statistics focus too greatly on perceptions and feelings towards crime, and that the methodology used would lead to a highly subjective method for gathering statistics. given the absence of valuable statistics based on the actual reporting and convictions of crimes, and the trends in cross-border crime, i agree with the rapporteur on his recommendation to the commission and eurostat to withdraw the proposal and instead come forward with a new and improved version.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the commission proposal aims to liberalise the groundhandling market and to make it more efficient. i believe that the proposal and application of the third party provider will bring about a significant improvement in the quality of airport services in many countries of the union. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2012 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2012. these are therefore consumer-friendly solutions that have long been used at airports around the world, including in the united states and japan. so i don't see much point in blocking them. the report contains a number of other questionable provisions, such as excessive reporting requirements and the obligation to approve ground handling operators at national level. both requirements involve a significant increase in administrative costs. in view of the many controversies surrounding the commission's proposal, i believe that this report should be referred to parliament for further work.
in writing. − the report on groundhandling services at european union airports should not be submitted by the european commission in this form at all. i spoke about this during the debate, and earlier in the committee on transport and tourism i was the first to propose that the european commission's proposal be rejected. i am pleased to note that i also found a sufficiently convincing majority in the plenary to vote against the commission's proposal. i'd like to see this bill not go back to the house transportation and tourism committee.
in writing. − the air package, of which the rule mp's report forms part, is a step towards increasing competitiveness in the airport ground handling market and towards increasing requirements for customer handling standards at airports. for the first time, minimum quality requirements have been introduced in eu legislation, i.e. minimum waiting times for baggage and minimum quantities of aircraft de-icing fluid. this second requirement is particularly important in the event of sudden changes in weather conditions, as it is often the lack of adequate quantities of this liquid that causes congestion at airports. the air package will streamline the operations of airports, making them more efficient, inter alia, through a new 'slot' management system. nevertheless, the aviation package without the rules member's report is incomplete and therefore less effective. it should be stressed that the proposed opening of the aviation market is very cautious, as it changes the required number of handling companies from 2 to 3. in light of the foregoing, i have voted to refer this document to the transportation committee for further consideration on the compromise submissions.
in writing. − the aim of the proposed new regulation on slots is to ensure optimal allocation and use of airport slots in congested airports, ensure strengthened and effectively implemented slot allocation and use, and enhance fair competition and competitiveness of operators. i agree with several parts of the report; however, i voted against the report because there were a number of serious concerns. for example, although i agree with the commission proposal to formally introduce secondary trading of slots, amendments to article 13 on secondary trading risk seriously impairing and distorting the slot allocation system and the secondary trading market to the detriment of consumers. a proposal for the publication of aggregate and individual data on financial compensation derived from the sale of slots would result in the publication of confidential commercial information and would add extra administrative burden for airlines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposal’s aims to update existing measures in order to enable local authorities to improve the noise climate around airports in the eu within the international framework of the icao’s balanced approach on noise management. i believe that equal consideration should be given both to economic benefits and to impacts on health and quality of life for people living in the vicinity of airports when assessing the noise situation at eu airports.
in writing. - we often face a dilemma: on the one hand, airline passengers want easy access to the city, which usually means the requirement of an airport close to the centre, on the other hand, urban areas as densely populated areas their inhabitants want an airport far away. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2012 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2012. so noise is a sensitive issue. i congratulate the rapporteur on a good, balanced report, which i think can be supported.
in writing. − i share the opinion that the need for accurate and independent national and eu-wide statistics has been one of the main lessons of the financial and economic crisis: not only were statistics frequently unreliable in respect of economic forecasting, they were often open to political manipulation. statistics in general, and both eurostat and the national statistical offices in particular, will pay a key role in the economic governance structures that have been put in place since the crisis began. this proposal provides the programming framework for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics in order that political and economic actions can be taken with the most accurate, timely and relevant information in hand. this is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i have very strongly expressed my support for the report by mr janusz wojciechowski. i welcome his report because it promotes the development of local meat processing and, consequently, food processing. this is very important for countries whose economies are based on agriculture, including the country i represent. in voting for the report, i also had in mind the opinion of over a million eu citizens who supported the '8 hours' petition against long-term transport that is harmful to animal welfare. in addition, the possible environmental benefits of this solution, such as reduced transport and better conditions for transported animals, cannot be overlooked.
in writing. - i disagree with the author of the report and voted against the limitation of animal transport to 8 hours. a reduction in the authorised journey time of animals would result in the need to unload them more frequently for a journey break, which, combined with reloading, would result in very high stress for the animals, not to mention the possibility of unnecessary injuries, and a deterioration of the animal health conditions. it would also force carriers to increase the transport speed to the maximum allowed, which would significantly reduce the comfort of transport for animals. the current rules governing the transport of animals over long distances ensure a high level of animal welfare.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. between 2005 and 2009, we saw a significant increase in the number of animals transported. two-thirds of transports lasted longer than eight hours. in 2012, parliament adopted a written declaration on the establishment of a maximum eight-hour journey limit for animals transported in the eu for the purpose of being slaughtered. i share the rapporteur’s positive assessment of the commission report on the impact of council regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport and related operations, which entered into force on 5 january 2007. however, i also feel that the report does not provide a full assessment of all the economic, social and environmental costs of animal transport. i also agree with the committee on agriculture in calling on the commission to support, as far as possible, local meat processing in order to prevent animals from being transported over long distances for slaughter, and to take steps to rebuild small slaughterhouses.
in writing. - the aim of reducing the transport time of animals is a sensible proposal worthy of support. the introduction of new regulations will reduce the discomfort of animals, it will be a humanitarian step. many of my constituents emphasize that the way we treat animals is a measure of our humanity. i'm familiar with that idea. on the other hand, the new regulation will mainly benefit local meat producers. this is highly desirable, as the common agricultural policy should support local food processing rather than exporting raw materials. the new regulation ensures that local farmers benefit from the collection of livestock in the area. so it's against the interests of the local farmers. it is worth noting that the transport of animals is mainly earned by intermediaries and transport companies. the alternative worth supporting is local slaughter on a smaller scale in local slaughterhouses. this means creating jobs in rural areas. it is an action to protect the environment and the climate. it is therefore in the public interest. the new regulation also protects the interests of food consumers by providing them with high quality products at a favourable price.
in writing. - we must do everything to ensure that the animals are transported in a decent environment. before this vote, many civil society organisations had approached my office asking for support for the report by mr wojciechowski. i fully agree with their view, as expressed by the rapporteur, and that is why i supported this report.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, drawn up by ms monika flašíková beňová. i would like to emphasise that i support the promotion of human rights, the principles of democracy and the rule of law and the establishment of mechanisms to prevent their violation. however, in my view, the report refers to fundamental rights as rights which are not fundamental rights and thus contradicts the vision promoted by the christian democratic political group of which i am a member. i would like to express my strong opposition to actions that promote destructive behaviour that negatively affects health and life or the dignity of the human person.
in writing. − the report by ms monika flašiková beňová dealt with the respect for fundamental rights in the eu in 2010 and 2011. the report covers a wide range of topics, including some controversial ones. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat trafficking in human beings, to promote the rights of roma and to ensure access to justice. unfortunately, i cannot support many of the provisions contained in the report, such as the extension of the mandate of the fundamental rights agency, the quota system for women, access to abortion and gay marriage. that is why i voted against this resolution in the final vote.
mr. chairman, please! there is one area that needs constant improvement in our global human rights policy. the issue is the protection of religious freedom from interference, hostility, and even outright anti-religious policies by certain states. sometimes, as in india, we have to deal with social hatred that the government cannot handle despite its good will. sometimes, as in some middle eastern countries, public disgust turns into an increasingly explicit state policy of religious purges. this is the fate of christians in iraq, syria, and egypt. i appreciate catherine ashton's reaction to this problem. but we urgently need a clear set of norms for how our diplomacy should behave in the face of the challenge to the fundamental dimension of freedom, which is religious freedom.
mr. chairman, please! minister kozakou-marcoullis said that 2012 was a milestone in the field of human rights. i think that these two reports - and i congratulate my colleagues on their content - show that a major change has indeed taken place. the lisbon treaty, on the one hand, and the arab spring experience, on the other, have meant that we have had to build a new approach to human rights and integrate human rights into other policies. what do we expect from this new approach? first of all, better alignment between the union's policies and human rights. clauses that refer to human rights in all eu treaties. also strengthen the role of civil society in this ngo sector. i think that the creation of the european fund for democracy - a polish initiative - will be very helpful to this. i also want to stress the important role of civil society forums. freedom of conscience, of religion, has become a major problem in human affairs. in many parts of the world, christians and others are persecuted for having the courage to be religious. i would like to draw particular attention to the role of ombudsmen. national human rights institutions have a huge role to play in promoting human rights. we should take advantage of that. i would also like to stress the role of corporate social responsibility in human rights and would like to call for this issue to be included in the european union's strategy for democratisation and human rights. today we have witnessed the sakharov prize ceremony and also the fact that the union has won the nobel peace prize. it reinforces our responsibility for human rights.
mr. chairman, please! the prerequisite for effective human rights action is credibility. the protection of human rights within the union itself must therefore be given priority. so far, we have not tackled discrimination against ethnic, religious, sexual minorities or even against the majority, such as women, in the union. women are treated worse in the labor market, exposed to domestic violence, sexual harassment, forced prostitution. we still have many cases of serious violations of the rights of refugees, migrants, the roma community. there is a large group of citizens who are excluded because of unemployment and low income. most people in the union don't have the same rights as white, wealthy, heterosexual men. the implementation of the human rights objectives must be accelerated and clear procedures established. the annual summary of the union's activities must include progress in the implementation of the human rights strategy. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on human rights violations in bahrain in march this year. have the appropriate steps been taken? what action will the commission take or plan to take on israel's unlawful demolitions of palestinian homes and israeli plans to build 3,000 new homes illegally in occupied land? what action does the commission plan to take to build a coalition of support among third countries for the opening of an official investigation into the situation in syria before the international criminal court?
mr. chairman, please! it is right that the aim of the current review is to put human rights at the heart of the european union's relations with all third countries. unfortunately, it often seems that we use high-sounding slogans and end up with slogans. it is clear that key priorities should include fundamental fundamental rights. these freedoms are self-evident, but we can't forget the things we can teach the rest of the world. the european union has made remarkable progress in combating the death penalty and discrimination against women. let us not forget democracy and the rule of law, which we take for granted, because they are prerequisites for the enjoyment of human rights. let us use our opportunities by holding broad consultations, setting realistic targets, not shying away from political pressure, but not forgetting efforts to protect and support human rights defenders in third countries. in conclusion, i welcomed the encouragement to the relevant eu institutions to engage in supporting religious freedom and conflict resolution and to provide assistance to religious actors and organisations in this regard.
mr. chairman, please! as early as the 1970s, democracy and human rights were recognised as the foundations of the international identity of the then european communities. since then, promoting these values has become one of the main objectives of european external action. despite more than 40 years, this objective remains the same, indicating that the efforts made have had little effect. the relatively small successes in this area are due mainly to the fact that the union has become unreliable in its efforts. research shows that its international partners believe that europe treats human rights extremely instrumentally, tolerating their violation by its allies and condemning them when it is convenient for it. the best example of this inconsistent approach is the policy towards china or russia. but this inconsistency has an internal dimension as well. how can we be trustworthy to our partners when human rights are being violated in the member states? it is enough to mention the persecution of the roma, the treatment of illegal immigrants, or the discrimination against the muslim minority. our foreign policy on human rights will never be effective if we do not strictly follow it ourselves.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. russia has real bad luck. because we would like to talk about a purely economic agreement today, but it just so happens that today we were awarding the sakharov prize and we were talking about human rights. we're debating right after we've talked about human rights, and our debate is being led by mcmillan-scott, who is known for fighting for human rights around the world. we would indeed like to speak the language of economic cooperation, but in relations with russia, unfortunately, we cannot forget where mr swoboda started. this report would be different if it were not for the worsening situation of democratization and democrats in russia. we should keep that in mind, because we can't talk business. mrs malmström has tried to talk about this a little bit, but it is impossible to talk about the purely economic aspects of cooperation without repeating over and over again that the situation in russia is getting worse and worse, that those who are fighting for human rights are being killed there. the media is restricted, ngos are called foreign agents. this is unacceptable. the second thing is, let's stop talking about strategic partnership. we cannot have a strategic partnership with a country that is, firstly, quite poor, because its budget is only three times the size of poland's budget, and we cannot have a strategic partnership with a country that does not respect the fundamental european values. so it's worth talking to russia, it's worth getting them involved. we as the ecr will support this report, but only on the condition that it serves to improve relations within russia and to improve democracy within russia.
mr. chairman, please! i'm listening to this debate with disappointment. the european parliament is beginning to sound like an old, worn-out blackboard on russia. individual mps stand up and say, russia is our strategic partner. and they keep saying the same thing, because you can keep quiet or tell the truth. if it's the economy, it's the competition. and the competition is the problem. if partnership, then you should say democracy. and the thing about elections is that you can't defend elections in russia at all. if politics, good politics, is what you would say, then human rights. and we agreed that in europe, beyond the russian border, we would have a different standard of human rights. i want to say this: our future as europe is our future with russia. but let's not blame russia for the current break in our relations. let's think about why there's nothing to say at the eu-russia summit next week and there's nothing to say at the foreign affairs committee meeting in moscow. because we agreed to these terms of cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! as we debate a new agreement with russia, we need to redefine our own expectations for working with russia. in this room, and i think more broadly in the european union, we have no doubt and there should be no doubt. we cannot limit this cooperation to the economic sphere alone. in the economic sphere, after russia's accession to the wto, we have the right to expect changes for the better, but we must also want and demand changes for the better in matters relating to civil liberties, democratic reforms and respect for basic human rights, and here we see unfortunately a regression in russia. first, the continuing harassment of opposition leaders. secondly, the deterioration of the conditions under which ngos operate. but finally, i want to draw attention to this, a new shocking initiative of the ruling politicians - several russian mps - to punish the authors of the russian language textbook, because this textbook would damage the image of russia. no, it's not stanislav chernishov or his textbook that's hurting russia's image. the biggest damage to russia's image is caused by corrupt officials, impunity for those responsible for magnitsky's death, and fear among political leaders of the people's vote in free and democratic elections.
mr. chairman, please! there's been a lot of talk about a strategic partnership. a strategic partnership is, in my view, something that is not just about trade, not just about selling meat or buying gas, but about shared values. and as the previous speakers have said here, it is very difficult for us today to talk about a strategic partnership with russia. a strategic partnership is something that binds the european union and the united states together, because we have common values, because we share values like democracy and human rights. today in russia, with these issues - human rights, democracy, the functioning of the democratic system, tolerating the opposition, cooperating with the opposition, cooperating with the media - there are huge, gigantic problems. and of course we, as the european union, have a duty to speak out loudly about this, to speak out also to president putin, to prime minister medvedev and to our partners in the duma. and the second thing is economic cooperation. of course, no one here is crazy enough to say that we should stop importing gas from russia or selling our goods produced in the european union, but all this must happen under the rules that apply to us as members of the european union. there can't be special treatment for russian investments just because gazprom is a big company.
mr. chairman, please! today we are once again discussing our relations with russia in the context of a new agreement which should create a new framework for these relations, a very comprehensive political and economic framework. it's worth considering where we are. well, when i read in this document that our relationship should be based on shared values, i wonder what year it is. i wonder if it's 2012. after repeatedly rigged elections, after crushed opposition demonstrations, after humiliating the european union, whose foundation and support for russian foundations is treated as an agency activity, what year are we in? is it 2012, is it 2004, 2005, or is it 2008 when this kind of language would have made any sense when a young, promising president, medvedev, was taking office? well, the situation is that we have to learn from everything that has happened in our relations, we have to understand that good and effective politics requires change. well, we can't continue what brought us bankruptcy. the union's policy towards russia has in fact been bankrupt. what is needed is a new, realistic policy based on mutual interests, but also on recognizing what president putin says quite directly, that our interests are in many cases conflicting. we need to learn from this and address our tasks properly.
mr. chairman, please! the key economic element of eu-russia relations is, of course, energy. what is needed here is transparency, fair competition and the exclusion of monopolistic behaviour to which we are unfortunately accustomed at gazprom. hannes swoboda has very well formulated these points of his project. the european commission must remember, especially today, that regardless of the negotiations on a new framework agreement, there can be no question of any exemption of south stream's investments from the rules of the third energy package, including in particular from the rules on third party access to the transmission infrastructure in the european union. such legal privileges would mean that the european union itself is supporting the creation of a foreign monopoly on the european gas market. in planning our relations with russia, we must also be aware that these ambitious goals mean only one thing: there will be no new eu-russia framework agreement. our economic relations will be based on a sectoral approach, which means that the european commission must be particularly cautious and attentive to what is happening on the community market in terms of protecting competition and security of energy supply.
mr. chairman, please! the developments in egypt seem to indicate that the policy that mrs ashton has adopted has reached a dead end. unfortunately, what some have pointed out, namely the danger that islamic circles will want to play an increasing role by exploiting the democratic processes that emerged a year ago in egypt, seems to be confirmed. this is the dark scenario we see almost every day, with the entire opposition in egypt sounding the alarm, pointing out that president morsi's actions go beyond what we are used to under egypt's previous dictator, mubarak. the uncritical support of the european union and mrs ashton for this policy and for the forces that have taken power in egypt seems to have had very negative consequences. in this situation, a shock is necessary, changes are necessary and a radical and clear position of the european union is necessary in the face of the disturbing signals that reach us every day from egypt. it's not just democracy that's at stake there, but the very foundations of the rule of law, and we have to defend them.
mr. chairman, please! i agree, i don't like the settlements in the west bank, i don't like the unilateral policy, but settlements are part of the policy that has been for some time in the middle east, the policy of unilateral action by the israeli side and the palestinian side. this is a time of confrontation. israel is taking advantage of the opportunities that it has, even though they are illegal and illegal. i was in sderot recently and i know that from the launch of a missile, from the announcement of the missile alarm, there are 30 seconds for people to hide in shelters. a mother with three children must choose which children to take with her to the shelter, or the rocket could kill them all. i would like all those who condemn the settlements, condemn the decisions that we do not like, to remember that there are two sides of the conflict, that we should divide everything that deserves condemnation well. if we manage to bring about a state in which there will be dialogue, there will be progress. today there is no dialogue, there are no conditions for dialogue, and the reason is that israel is exposed to a specific weapon and a specific attack and its citizens are exposed.
mr. chairman, thank you for the opportunity to speak. mr. murphy is leaving, and i will admit that he provoked me to this statement, because i know mr. murphy, who is very involved in kazakhstan's affairs. i appreciate your activism, even though i don't share your ideological baggage, but i know you're involved in human rights abuses in asia. i wonder why the european left is so anti-israel. it's been a phenomenon for a long time that the most anti-israel, anti-jewish thing in europe today is the european left. i wonder why that was so obvious in that debate. what is the idea of blaming one nation or one state for all the evil in the middle east today? i think that the times given by our colleagues on the left are uneven.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. a few weeks ago, your predecessor, mr verheugen, said he regretted not being able to bring real proposals to ukraine after the orange revolution. i was thinking about that when you were talking about time today. this is the time for ukraine. and we are saying today to the ukrainian government that it is time to solve these problems that rebecca harms spoke about with yulia tymoshenko and yuri lutsenko. but time is on our side, too. it is about our neighbour and our interests as the european union, as the countries of the european union. we can't waste that time on history. i therefore thank the commissioner for his clear commitment to ukraine. that is why i am calling on the institutions of the european union to engage in a very intensive dialogue. this year, what happened was there was no eu-ukraine summit, but there were two eu-russia summits. we were talking here today about the situation in russia. i don't want to compare, but i want to say that we can't just go to the government. some people like this government in ukraine, some people don't. our partners are the public, ngos, churches. they have shown in these elections that they care about ukraine's european choice. these are our neighbours, to whom poland, the czech republic, slovakia are not far away, even brussels is not far away. they want to be with us in a common europe. we don't have any title to tell them today "no" or to tell them that it will be too many, many years. and that's why i'm asking you today to reconsider what we have to offer you today. let's sign the partnership agreement as soon as possible. it's not gonna hurt the prisoners who are wrongfully incarcerated or anyone. it'll only help with the politics. let's ease up on the visa thing. it cannot be that young people who want to study, who want to come and see europe, are faced with a new iron curtain. this is also our time and i hope that you, commissioner - i appreciate your work very much - will one day be able to give a better speech than günter verheugen, that you will be able to say that you had something to say in kiev. this is very important today.
mr president, nowadays, to talk about ukraine is to discuss signing an association agreement. we usually hear representatives of the authorities – the government, the president and the opposition – saying different things. the result, however, is clear: the future of ukrainians is becoming hostage to political clashes in that country. unfortunately, as the european union we cannot address this in the proper way. what we should do is listen to the real representatives of the ukrainians. they are the representatives of ngos and civil society, which are vital to this country. they are people who do not want to involve themselves in politics, but want to be active. we have a very good example. we have a letter, which i have distributed among the members, from three major ukrainian figures: ms alyona getmanchuk, mr aleksandr sushko and mr valeriy chalyi. this letter was also signed by more than 50 people who are also very well-known leaders of public opinion. their position is clear: they want to sign an association agreement and to treat it not as a gift to any authorities in ukraine, but as a tool for ukrainians, for civil society and, on the other side, for the european union to press the government to make reforms. once again, it is not a gift to anybody, but a tool. we must not wait until november. there is no time for ukraine to lose. there is no time for the european union to lose. it is time for ukrainians to call for their rights. they need an association agreement as soon as possible at the beginning of next year. let us help ukrainians. let us enable them to fulfil their dream of european integration.
mr. chairman, please! elections are in the past, elections are over, and elections can be described as a beauty pageant. there's no choice anywhere that's perfectly beautiful. today the supreme council began its work. i'm surprised that no one has congratulated the supreme council on starting work. our partners in ukraine have started their work. of the 445 elected mps, none of them have presented their mandate, which means they have recognized this election. maybe you should take into account how many people went to vote in ukraine. maybe we should consider that they're implementing the kind of democracy they can afford. we want to help them. we want to make it even better. we don't like everything. let's ask these people what they think about the partnership agreement. let's ask them if they want an association, let's ask this new supreme council, and then doctrinally, from this wisdom of ours, from this throne of brussels and strasbourg, let's talk about the next conditions: if you do this, if you do that. i am in favour of demanding; i am against creating further conditions and further attempts at such misunderstood pressure. i know there's an expectation that the name of alexander kwasniewski will be dropped. of course, i'll mention that name because this is a man who has done a lot, who has shown how smart negotiation can produce tangible results. let that be a sign of how we should behave in our relations with ukraine.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i was an observer in this election, and my reflections, my observations, are very different from those of congressman griffin. of course, in the wake of the recent election, we have every right to be disappointed. there is no doubt that the fact that the opposition leaders are imprisoned, they could not participate freely in this election campaign, the fact that there were pressures on independent media and independent journalists, and especially the way some election commissions were constructed, or finally the way the votes were counted, has the right to frustrate us. indeed, there is no doubt that these elections could have been better. that's what we expected. on the other hand, the high turnout of ukrainian citizens, the good or even very good results of the opposition groups, very close to what the polls indicated just before the elections, or finally the result in the form of the election of two new political parties to the ukrainian parliament, are proof that the ukrainians themselves took these elections very seriously and saw in them the opportunity to express their political will. i agree with those in this chamber who say that the eu's association agreement with ukraine will not be a reward for irregularities but an incentive to reinforce these positive trends, this pro-western, pro-european direction in ukraine. however, i also understand that the association agreement cannot be concluded without any conditions. commissioner füle was right to talk about these conditions. however, i welcome the decision of the european council to enter into negotiations on an association agreement as soon as possible. and most importantly, i wanted to say one thing at the end. we must also make a gesture to reward the ukrainians for their active participation in the last elections, above all by accepting further visa facilitation as soon as possible, because only in this way can we convince them that europe is really open to ukraine and ukrainians. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm speaking to chairman protasiewicz as vice chairman in charge of eastern affairs. do you not think that more needs to be done in parliament, that parliament should be at the forefront of the work on opening up to ukraine and the association agreement and particularly the visa issue? it is a good tradition in parliament that parliament goes further than the commission and the council. do you have any ideas or initiatives in this matter? because it's very much needed today.
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr president, mr ambassador, i have to ask you to stop this. we can and should start work on the visa legalisation agreement immediately, i will be a co-rapporteur in two committees - the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on foreign affairs. this will be my personal contribution to making europe more open to ukrainians, but in a political sense i think we should extend the mandate of the cox/kwasniewski mission, because it is our channel of influence on the political decisions of the ukrainian authorities, so that the conditions that commissioner füle has spoken about and that the council is formulating are implemented as soon as possible on the ukrainian side.
madam president! i found in commissioner füle's speech what preceded our debate, namely, a certain ambivalence of feeling. on the one hand, we are very supportive of these european aspirations of ukraine, but on the other hand we see problems and we must not keep quiet about these problems, if only to be honest with our partners in kiev. that we are cheering for these changes is obvious, because it will be good for ukraine, it will be good for the european union. but we are dealing with a process of democratic retreat in the entire post-soviet area. this is visible in russia - we talked about this today - this is obviously visible in belarus. but it is important that we do not compare or otherwise the situation in ukraine with the situation in russia, and especially with the situation in belarus. it was indeed the case that ukrainians, with all the problems we are talking about today, had the opportunity to speak out, to manifest their will in these elections. they weren't what we wanted, but they met those expectations, those low expectations that we had. today everything depends on the ukrainians, so let us keep our fingers crossed and do everything we can to ensure that their european aspirations are met.
in writing. the discussion about ukraine is a classic "glass is half full or half empty" problem. there have been and will be many references to politically motivated trials, an inefficient and controlled judiciary, and an inefficient and corrupt administration. but we also need to look at the much-needed economic stabilization. ukraine has been cooperating closely with the international monetary fund and has complied with its recommendations, including gas price increases and an increase in the retirement age, which the previous government was unable to achieve. negotiations on a free trade area agreement between the eu and ukraine have been completed. ukraine has also done a lot to reduce its dependence on russian gas, as well as to increase energy efficiency, which is the achilles' heel of its economy. in the 10 months of this year, gas consumption was reduced by 22% compared to 2011. the development of democracy in ukraine depends first and foremost on the well-being of its citizens. the wealthy and contented citizens of kiev, donetsk and lviv will be the engine of change. failure to ratify the fta is not a punishment for the ukrainian government it is primarily a punishment for ukrainian businesses and citizens and may cause ukrainian citizens to become disillusioned with eu policies. this will not benefit anyone - neither ukrainians nor eu citizens - because the development of economic cooperation is in the mutual interest.
mr. chairman, please! the activities of the agency in question are closely linked to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i have before me a very important, i would even say crucial, in my opinion, passage from article 11: "everyone has the right to freedom of expression. . . . i quote the bill of rights in this debate, dedicating it to the government of my country, which has not ratified it. he had every right to do so, but the failure to ratify the charter translated into a lack of respect for freedom of expression in my country and the firing of journalists. this situation is completely unacceptable. in poland, press freedom is suppressed, many journalists are fired, the government influences private media owners, especially newspapers, to make such dismissals among journalists who criticize the government. i was going to say that today, during the debate on the fundamental rights agency.
in writing. despite the general support for the council's draft multiannual framework for the eu fundamental rights agency, the lack of consideration of police and criminal justice cooperation as priorities for the agency's work is particularly worrying. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, these areas have become part of eu legislation and should therefore be within the scope of the agency's work. by carrying out its activities in the areas of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation, the agency shall contribute to the union's objective of ensuring that measures adopted and their implementation are in conformity with the charter of fundamental rights. the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights and the abolition of the old 3 pillar structure provide an additional argument for re-including these areas in the agency's remit. my support for this project today is based on my concern for the continuity of the agency's work. at the same time, in line with parliament's recommendation, i believe that the commission should review the agency's scope of work as soon as possible and propose to extend it to the above-mentioned issues next year. i hope that the council, in accordance with the letter of the law, will agree to include these areas again in the agency's work.
mr. chairman, please! the key to the future is work. the result of the european union's ongoing crisis is record youth unemployment. the unemployment rate for people under 25 is rising steadily across europe and is now over 23%. when we talk about economic growth, we cannot forget this social group of young people. their integration into the labour market is crucial for growth. the dependency is two-fold. with economic growth weak, there are fewer and fewer jobs. the unemployment rate among university graduates is increasing. their exclusion is a huge loss to the economy. on the other hand, there is another group of young people who lack vocational qualifications. in contrast, it is becoming increasingly difficult for member states to invest in education, especially in lifelong learning. this sector has been subject to austerity and budget cuts. they will be even more acute if the budgetary outlook for the european union is approved at an unambitious level.
in writing. europe's economic situation is deteriorating and we need to take the collective steps needed to repair it and get it back on the path to growth as soon as possible. an important element of this plan is the new budget of the european union. the strengthening of cohesion policy is particularly important, as it has been the most pro-investment tool available to the european union in recent years. with the funds it has raised, we have a strong impetus to build transport infrastructure, power blocks and innovative plants. in order to strengthen its strength, the compulsory contribution of the beneficiary should be reduced to a maximum of 20% of the costs. the next step in the recovery of the economy is to reduce costs for small and medium-sized enterprises. the federation of small enterprises in europe calculates that during the four days of the strasbourg session, entrepreneurs will spend a total of over 46 million hours completing administrative formalities. the cost of this procedure is enormous. that's why we have to do everything we can to contain it. the last urgent action the eu should take is to suspend the provisions of the energy and climate package. its continued implementation will lead to an increase in production costs, a decline in the competitiveness of the economy and an outflow of production investments outside the community. they are particularly dangerous for the countries of central and eastern europe and southern europe. it is estimated that its introduction in poland will result in a 2% decline in gdp and an increase in unemployment of around 2%. that's why i'm calling for a review of the package logs.
mr. chairman, please! both parliament and the european union are strongly committed to human rights in many regions of the world. during this session, we once again honoured with the sakharov prize those whose work is based on the struggle for respect for human rights and dignity. the european institutions are also increasingly addressing these issues in their relations with other countries, which is reflected in the international agreements they conclude. particular attention should be paid to the partner countries. further progress in deepening democratic reforms in this area must be the benchmark for our 'more for more' approach to our relations with each other. cases of discrimination against freedom of speech, conscience, belief or assembly continue to emerge in these countries. i agree with the need to develop more effective coherence and complementarity of human rights programmes between the union and the member states. the strengthening of our policy can be achieved through the institution of a special representative.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with the need to prepare and sign a new partnership and cooperation agreement between the union and russia. russia remains our biggest neighbor, and it borders poland directly. however, the current agreement was concluded long before my country joined the communities. the slow pace of the negotiations, which is the fault of the russians, is worrying because of the apparent lack of interest on the part of the kremlin authorities in complementary solutions. the new interim agreement should provide a forward-looking and legally binding framework for the further development of the mutual relations. in this context, the rule of law and democracy issues should be emphasised, with particular regard to the guarantee by the russian authorities of the freedom and integrity of elections in that country. it is essential to focus on improving the situation of civil society and protecting individual rights. in supporting the resolution, i also support the call on russia to withdraw its recognition of the georgian provinces of abkhazia and south ossetia and to respect the ceasefire agreement.
mr. chairman, please! the recent elections in ukraine have shown that challenges to basic electoral standards and obstacles to full transparency and democratisation remain to be taken seriously. the imprisonment of the leaders of the orange revolution certainly did not leave the opposition groups' campaign unsuccessful. in addition, the imperfections of the ukrainian electoral law have become apparent. in the context of our relations, i consider it highly desirable to continue with the signing of the association agreement. the country still has strong pro-european aspirations. however, it is necessary to establish a constructive dialogue between the ukrainian authorities and the opposition. i also hope that concrete and satisfactory solutions can be found in the case of ms yulia tymoshenko. i also support the liberalization of visa policy for ukraine, which is an expression of our deep commitment to developing contacts with the people of that country. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. − the debate on the multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the years 2013-2017 is an important topic. the fundamental rights agency does valuable work by, among other things, providing eu bodies and member states with expertise in the field of fundamental rights. its remit therefore revolves around important issues such as the fight against racism, xenophobia and all forms of discrimination. in addition, it addresses issues such as the protection of children's and immigrant rights, visa and border controls, and the protection of personal data. however, the functioning of the agency may raise doubts, in particular as regards the scope of its competences and the costs associated with its activities. therefore, an in-depth discussion of the substance of the agency's activities and the scope of its competence is needed. the debate on the possible inclusion of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the agency's list of thematic areas is also important. in times of financial crisis, the need to be very cautious about spending money on the functioning of the eu institutions and agencies requires a thorough analysis of the fundamental rights agency's work planning and related expenditure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr rafal trzaskowski on written declarations and proposals for eu legal acts. i believe that the solutions proposed could have a positive impact on the process of preparing them and increase their relevance. written declarations are a tool for the european parliament to address issues of particular relevance to union citizens. the proposed changes include increasing the minimum number of members required to make a statement from five to at least 10 from at least three political groups and limiting the topics to issues falling within the exclusive competence of the eu. in addition, an electronic register of declarations and an electronic form for the submission of signatures of support were proposed. this will allow for much needed clarification of procedures and streamlining of the work of parliament in preparing statements and proposals on eu legal acts. it will also enhance the european parliament's role as a major player in the eu's institutional system.
in writing. − i decided to support the initiative aiming at a thorough reform of the system of written declarations. a tool which used to be one of the main weapons of position-taking by the ep in the past has become, with the treaty of lisbon, obsolete. it is important to reconsider its raison d’être and make the tool more meaningful, inter alia by rendering it possible to turn a wd with significant support by meps into legislative initiatives, where the eu has the right competence to do so.
in writing. - the european parliament has grown enormously over the years and today, as a co-legislator, it has real instruments at its disposal to influence what happens in the european union. written statements are a tool from a time when parliament had little influence. moreover, it is a totally ineffective tool, because studies show that these statements are rarely met with a response from the institutions to which they are addressed. limiting the use of this instrument to the increased initiative of members themselves is to adapt the ep's rules of procedure to the realities in which parliament functions today and to encourage members to take more meaningful action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu's human rights strategy. in the context of this report and yesterday's debate on human rights, i would like to underline parliament's call to pay particular attention to harmful traditional practices, such as female genital mutilation, in the implementation of the strategy to combat violence against women. i call on the commission to ensure that measures to combat gender-based violence and to empower women are mainstreamed in all development policies and programmes of the union. the union must also accelerate the pace of achieving its objectives. strategy alone, even the best, is not enough. to achieve the objectives effectively, we need clear and precise guidelines for the practical implementation of the human rights strategy in every area of the union's activities. it means that every official and diplomat must know his role and responsibility in this matter. any summary of the implementation of eu policies must also include progress in the implementation of the human rights strategy.
in writing. − i welcome the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights, an office whose primary objective will be to strengthen human rights policy in all eu external policy strategies and to improve coordination between the union and its member states. it has the potential to make the union's approach to human rights violations worldwide more effective. it may also affect the respect of other fundamental human rights, such as the promotion of women's rights, children's rights and social justice. in my view, the european union should step up its efforts to protect and support human rights defenders in third countries, especially those who are in danger or living in fear because of their involvement. this will for example require changes and additional priorities in the use of the recently established european endowment for democracy. it will also require legislation requiring eu companies to significantly reduce or even stop purchasing from third countries if an audit shows that they may be contributing to conflict and gross human rights violations.
in writing. − the defence of human rights is an important element of the european union's foreign policy. however, i am missing a number of important points in the report under consideration. the protection of religious freedom in the world is of particular importance, with particular regard to the situation of christians. it is the largest and most persecuted religion in the world today. in many countries where the european community is active, such as pakistan, egypt and saudi arabia, there is mass persecution of followers of jesus. the situation in egypt is particularly dire. the report we're discussing is silent on this. but it does contain provisions that run counter to the values that underpin the european community and the greek and roman culture, such as support for adoption by same-sex couples. i can't agree to such a record, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - good relations with russia, europe's great neighbour, are important from both a political and an economic perspective. russia is a huge market and therefore an important trading partner of the union countries, and all efforts should be made to develop and facilitate existing economic relations. the negotiations should focus on improving customs and visa rules to improve the flow of people and goods. negotiations with the russian authorities are necessary to lift the import ban on many goods originating in the union and to cancel the increase in duties on certain goods, as these measures have caused huge losses, in particular to european farmers and food producers for whom the russian market was the main market. we need to act as a unified body in dealing with russia, which will increase our bargaining power.
in writing. − russia's accession to the wto after nearly 20 years of negotiations is significant. but it is an illusion to think that this ends the trade dispute between the european union and russia. for russia, trade is also a political weapon. the third energy package will undoubtedly be the most serious source of tension in economic relations between russia and the eu. gazprom has indeed announced that it will comply with the terms of the package and separate the pipeline company from the gas sales company. he's also gonna make the pipelines available to other companies. we call on the european commission to ensure that gazprom keeps its promise. and to make sure that this process is as transparent as possible. today, russia is threatening to raise moldova's prices if it does not withdraw from the energy community. two months ago, unofficial statements by members of the russian government suggested that russia could challenge the third package provisions allowing for the forced ownership separation of distribution networks from gas and energy sales to the wto court. have the commission's legal services analysed this matter in order to be able to assess what the verdict in this case might be? russia is an important trading partner of the eu. the integration of our economies has undoubtedly increased in recent times, and you can do this by going to any russian store or, for example, the warsaw metro, which is served by trains produced in russia. but we must fight and condemn all forms of protectionism to which the russian government has resorted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the negotiations for a new agreement between the eu and russia. the current agreement was signed in 1994 and should be replaced by a new one that reflects the changes that have taken place both in the eu and in russia. however, the pace of negotiations is very slow, russia is not particularly interested in a new comprehensive agreement and is showing a selective interest in developing common political strategies. the european parliament would like the new agreement to be legally binding and as comprehensive as possible, and to have human rights issues at its heart. the report strongly condemned the lack of rule of law and democracy in russia and called on the russian authorities to put an end to the climate of impunity and selective justice.
in writing. - i've been following the situation in ukraine with interest. given its size, geographical location and strong historical, cultural and economic links with central and eastern europe, ukraine plays a key role in the region and is an important partner of the european union. in view of ukraine's european aspirations and the prospect of the signing of an association agreement between the european union and ukraine, it is necessary to intensify efforts to better protect human rights, respect for civil liberties and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, including fair and impartial trials. it is also important to continue economic reforms. the european union, through, inter alia, numerous resolutions of the european parliament and statements by catherine ashton, high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, has drawn attention to the existence of a number of challenges and problems faced by ukraine, such as the arrest of political opposition leaders and the violations of electoral procedures during parliamentary elections, as documented in the osce/odihr reports. however, i believe that joint efforts will overcome the difficulties and ensure effective cooperation between the european union and ukraine, to the benefit of both parties.
in writing. − parliamentary elections were held in ukraine on 28 october. in the context of the completion of the association agreement, the european union observed these elections in particular. international observation missions, including the european parliament's observation mission, have identified irregularities throughout the electoral process. while the voting itself was conducted correctly, the pre-election period was assessed negatively. the main problems are the lack of transparency in the financing of electoral campaigns, the lack of a level playing field for campaigning (leaders of the orange revolution remain in prison, lack of balanced access to the media) and the imperfections of the new electoral law. the strong support in the elections for political parties that speak of the need to move closer to the eu is evidence of the european aspirations of ukrainian society.
in writing. − i have chosen to abstain from voting on the amendment condemning the ukrainian party svoboda. it is with great concern that i am observing the growth of nationalistic and xenophobic spirits in the western part of ukraine. i realize that the group responsible for that, to a large extent, is svoboda. the party has been cultivated by the traditions of bandera, thus i, as well as europe, condemn such actions, which are destructive for ukrainian aspirations for integration to the european union. at the same time, svoboda repeatedly showed its support for european integration in the supreme council and deserves some time to change their nationalist-chauvinist politics. to be credible, the party has to refuse to use its xenophobic slogans and radically change its politics. we will continue watching closely the actions of svoboda and its european action plan, as i believe signing the eu association agreement will play a great role in establishing political and economic reforms in ukraine and will get the country closer to integration with the european community.
in writing. − the steel sector in europe is experiencing a crisis of declining competitiveness and rising production costs, largely due to the wrong decisions to adopt an energy and climate package mandating a reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020. in poland alone, the implementation of its provisions will increase unemployment by about 250 thousand people and increase energy prices. due to the increase in production costs and reduced demand, more than 600 people are now planned to be laid off in the sędzimir hut in kraków alone, and similar group layoffs are planned in sosnowiec, chorzów and warsaw. if the situation does not change, there will be further closures of large furnaces and a shift of production to ukraine and india, where no climate restrictions apply. this is all the more sad as the sector accounts for 7.5% of all european industry and is one of the largest employers in the european union industry. the steel rescue programme should therefore be based on the suspension of the provisions of the energy and climate package, which is leading to the deindustrialisation of europe. another important factor is the blocking of imports of low-priced steel from the former soviet union and china. the resolutions we are voting on do not address the threats i mentioned, which is why i abstained.
mr. chairman, please! the april congolese rebellion against the country's government forces has led to a collapse in security and an alarming humanitarian crisis in the country. the un, which accused rwanda of supporting the march 23rd movement, joined the fighting to support the congolese army and stop the rebel march. the ongoing fighting has displaced nearly 2.5 million people, with more than 400,000 fleeing to neighbouring rwanda and uganda. thousands of civilians living in the areas of conflict have been subjected to violence, torture and rape. the developments in eastern congo have caused great concern to the international community, resulting in a social, political and economic crisis in the country. first of all, all acts of aggression and flagrant violations of the basic human rights of the local population must be condemned and all lawbreakers and war criminals must be punished without mercy. the democratic republic of congo must restore stability to the country by establishing strong and independent institutions that meet international standards. the european union should continue its efforts to support the people of eastern congo in an even more coordinated and effective manner, providing medical and humanitarian assistance to all those affected by this bloody conflict.
mr. chairman, please! of course, the political situation in the great lakes region is extremely complex, and the humanitarian situation is extremely dramatic. and we can't solve these problems without easing tensions, for example, between the congo and rwanda. pressure is needed so that the leaders of both countries condemn and stop supporting any rebel groups, regardless of their origin, ethnicity or political goals. the international community, and therefore also we, the european union, must put pressure on both neighbouring countries to resume bilateral cooperation aimed at eliminating all the negative forces operating in eastern congo. the mandate of monusco should also be modified accordingly. and one last thing: international action must be taken against the illegal mining of mineral resources in eastern congo. it is worth considering the establishment of a certification mechanism modelled on the kimberley process.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? the caste system still exists in many parts of asia. the divisions in society are very deep and go back to the very beginning of these nations. discrimination and exclusion of different social groups is therefore practically universally accepted. the dalits, commonly called "untouchables", are the lowest caste in india. as a result, they live isolated from other groups, with limited access to services, employment, education, or land. they are victims of physical attacks and humiliation. in recent months, dalit-inhabited provinces have been hit by a wave of violence, including the rape of women and children. ninety percent of these incidents go unreported because the victims fear for their lives and further exclusion from indian society. the constitution of independent india banned caste discrimination by introducing the principle of equal opportunity in access to public services, education and employment. these regulations exist on paper, but are not sufficiently enforced by the indian authorities. the changes will not be easy to implement, as the caste system still dominates indian society, especially in rural areas. but i believe that india, as a democratic country, will be able to deal with this problem. furthermore, i hope that other countries in the region will follow india's example and take legislative action to end discrimination against parts of their own society.
